 Lord J. Russell  then said: In the terms of the Address proposed by the hon. Gentlemen, I readily concur. Scarcely has an observation fallen from those hon. Gentlemen, in their able statements, with which I should feel occasion to find fault or express any serious difference. At the same time there are topics in the Speech of Her Majesty, in answer to which the Address is moved, which I think do call for remark from Members of this House not connected with Her Majesty's Government. The first topic in the Speech to which the hon. Gentleman has alluded, is the gratifying fact that three foreign Sovereigns paid visits to our Sovereign in the course of the last summer. That these visits should lead to more amicable relations, and a more intimate connexion with those Sovereigns alluded to, as well as to the maintenance of the peace of the world, must be the anxious wish of all parties in this country. I cannot, perhaps, hold, with the younger and more ardent spirit of the Gentleman who moved the Address, that the extension of commerce, mechanical inventions, and social intercourse, may speedily put an entire end to the prospects of war, and the calamities that follow it; and I cannot think that Her Majesty's Government either hold that expectation in so strong a manner as the hon. Gentleman does—in a manner certainly which is more becoming his age than it becomes mine; for I perceive that at the same time that the Government express, in the name of Her Majesty, their hopes of peace, they are taking precautions by which, in the event of war, the honour and interests of this country
 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76
 Mr. Miles  would not have risen, had it not been for the intimation of the right hon. Gentleman that he would bring forward his financial statement on Friday week, and also, had it not been for some expressions let drop by the noble Lord. He was at a loss to understand the noble Lord. Protection the bane of agriculture! If the noble Lord entertained that opinion now, or if he entertained it last year, why had he proposed a fixed duty? If the noble Lord found it convenient to alter his sentiments, and had allied himself with the Anti-Corn Law League, it appeared that a sudden conversion had come upon the noble Lord, and that he was determined to follow out the axioms and principles of that party. The noble Lord had fallen into another error—he had said there had been a bountiful harvest, and the noble Lord considered agriculture in the highest possible state of prosperity. [Lord  John Russell: 77
 Mr. Gladstone  spoke as follows: I am aware, Sir, it would be inexcusable on my part if I were to endeavour to relieve my right hon. Friend at the head of the Government from the task of replying to those numerous imputations which the noble Lord has thought it right to throw upon the Government in the course of his Speech. I rise with a different purpose. My object in offering myself to the House is, to give an explanation of what relates more immediately to myself. I should not, however, venture upon such a step if it were not that I feel the acts of public men to be acts in which the public at large have a great concern; and therefore, although it be irksome and offensive to detain a public assembly charged with high functions by matters in which self occupies too prominent a position, my purpose is, in point of fact, to remove misunderstandings and misapprehensions which, without some explanation, might exist, and which, relating to others as well as to myself, might prejudicially affect the public interests. Before I proceed, however, the noble Lord opposite will, I hope, allow me to thank him for the kind terms in which, notwithstanding the great differences of opinion, as well as those of station and ability between us, he has thought fit to make reference to me in the course of his speech. 78 79 80 81 82
 Mr. Villiers  said, that seeing the unwillingness of the House to prolong discussion, he would occupy them very shortly. He could not help observing, upon the singular calm and good humour that prevailed in the House. He could only refer this to the circumstance of the prosperity or the great improvement which there was in the state of the country. The hon. Gentleman who seconded the Address had admitted this fact very fully. He went into some detail to prove it, and seemed anxious further to devise the causes which have produced this change. Now, considering the state in which this country had been for the last few years, considering the difference of opinion that prevailed as to the cause of the great distress which had recently existed, he thought the hon. Gentleman had done wisely in raising this question, and that he could not have presented a more important consideration to the House at the commencement of the Session. The country was now comparatively in a satisfactory state. Till a recent period it had been in a state to excite nothing but anxiety and alarm. To satisfy the public of the reason for this change would be of most essential service, and would go far to determine that question regarding trade which notoriously distracted the country at present. There were now two systems, diametrically opposed to each other, which had their respective advocates. The hon. Gentleman who seconded the Address is a supporter of one which he terms the protective system, and considers that
 102 103 104
 Mr. Charteris  rose and said: I rise, Sir, to move that an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, in answer to the Gracious Speech from the Throne, and in so doing, I trust that nothing may fall from my lips calculated to excite amongst us a spirit of party, or in any way to disturb that cordial unanimity which is so desirable on an occasion like the present; at the same time, I ask of the House that kind indulgence which it never denies to those who, for the first time, trespass on its attention. The first subject alluded to in
 46 47 48 l. 49 That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, to express to Her Majesty our
 50 That we learn with the greatest pleasure from Her Majesty the improved condition of the Country, that increased activity pervades almost every branch of Manufacture, that Trade and Commerce have been extended at home and abroad, and that amongst all classes of Her Majesty's subjects there is generally prevalent a spirit of loyalty and cheerful obedience to the Law: That we rejoice to learn that Her Majesty continues to receive from all Princes and States assurances of a friendly disposition: That we participate in the satisfaction expressed by Her Majesty, in having received at Her Court the Sovereigns who, in the course of the last year, visited this Country: That we concur with Her Majesty in considering that the Journey of the Emperor of Russia, undertaken at a great sacrifice of private convenience, was a proof of the friendship of his Imperial Majesty, which must have been most acceptable to Her Majesty's feelings: That, in common with Her Majesty, we hope that the opportunity of personal intercourse thus afforded to Her Majesty may be the means of still further improving those amicable relations which have long subsisted between Great Britain and Russia: That we participate in the feelings which Her Majesty has been graciously pleased to express in respect to the visit of the King of the French, which was rendered especially welcome, inasmuch as it had been preceded by discussions which might have impaired the good understanding happily established between the two Countries: That we humbly concur with Her Majesty in regarding the maintenance of this good understanding as essential to the best interests of both; and we rejoice in the reflection that the sentiments of all classes of Her Majesty's subjects, on the occasion of His Majesty's visit, were entirely in unison with those of Her Majesty; To thank Her Majesty for the information that the Estimates for the ensuing year have been prepared, and that they will be forthwith laid before us: To express our acknowledgments to Her Majesty, for informing us that the progress of Steam Navigation, and the demands for protection
 51 That we learn with the greatest pleasure from Her Majesty that the improvement which is manifest in other parts of the Country has extended to Ireland; that the political agitation and excitement which Her Majesty has had heretofore occasion to lament appear to have gradually abated; and that, as a natural result, private capital has been more freely applied to useful public enterprizes, undertaken through the friendly co-operation of individuals interested in the welfare of Ireland; To thank Her Majesty for informing us that Her Majesty has carried into effect, in the spirit in which it was conceived, the Act for the more effectual application of Charitable Donations and Bequests: To assure Her Majesty that we shall be prepared to take into our consideration the policy of improving and extending the opportunities for Academical Education in Ireland: To thank Her Majesty for acquainting us that the Report of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the Law and Practice with respect to the Occupation of Land is nearly prepared, and will be communicated to us immediately after its presentation: To assure Her Majesty, that we shall be prepared to direct our attention to the state of the Law in regard to the privileges of the Bank of Ireland, and to other Banking Establishments in that Country and in Scotland: To thank Her Majesty, for informing us that the health of the inhabitants of large towns and populous districts in this part of the United Kingdom has been the subject of recent inquiry before a Commission, and that their Report will be immediately laid before us: To express our acknowledgments to Her Majesty, for Her Majesty's gracious intimation that it would be highly gratifying to Her Majesty, if the information and suggestions contained in that Report shall enable us to devise the means of promoting the health and comfort of the poorer classes of Her Majesty's subjects. Humbly to thank Her Majesty, for informing us of the success of the measures which, three years since, were adopted by Parliament for the purpose of supplying the deficiency in the
 52 To thank Her Majesty, for calling our attention to the circumstance, that the Act which was passed at that time for imposing a Tax upon Income will shortly expire: To assure Her Majesty, that we shall be ready to consider whether it may not be expedient to continue its operation for a further period; and thus to obtain the means of adequately providing for the Public Service, and at the same time of making a reduction in other taxation: That, whatever may be the result of our deliberations in this respect, Her Majesty may rely that it will be our determination to maintain an amount of Revenue amply sufficient to meet the necessary expenditure of the Country, and firmly to uphold that public credit which is indispensable to the national welfare: That we entirely participate in the opinion expressed by Her Majesty, that the prospect of continued Peace, and the general state of domestic prosperity and tranquillity, afford a favourable opportunity for the consideration of the important matters to which Her Majesty has directed our attention; and we unite with Her Majesty in the earnest prayer that we may be enabled, under the superintending care and protection of Divine Providence, to strengthen the feelings of mutual confidence and good will between different classes of Her Majesty's subjects, and to improve the condition of Her Majesty's people.
 Lord John Russell  said, that he had not given expression to any opinion whatever as to the reparation made in regard to Mr. Pritchard by the French Government. If the Government of this country had obtained reparation, and if they were of opinion that it was a sufficient one, he (Lord John Russell) was satisfied that the honour of the country was safe by the arrangement so made. But what he did say was, that when countries were upon the most amicable terms, and both in a relation of cordial understanding, a question of that kind—viz., relating to the expulsion of Mr. Pritchard from Tahiti—ought to have been arranged speedily and honourably to both countries.
 Mr. Speaker  acquainted the House, that he had received from Major-General Sir Charles Napier, the following Letter, in return to the Thanks of this House, transmitted by Mr. Speaker to the Governor-General in India, and communicated by his Lordship to Sir Charles Napier, in obedience to the Commands of this House of the 12th day of February, 1844:—
 Mr. Speaker   reported
 Mr. Shaw  had been so pointedly referred to by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Sheil) that he trusted the House would allow him to offer a few words of explanation on some matters of fact that had been observed upon in the debate, while he desired carefully to avoid committing himself to any opinion upon the measures the Government had announced, until they should be regularly before the House. He had stated across the House, during the speech of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Sheil), as the fact was, that the University of Dublin was open equally to Roman Catholics as to Protestants for all the purposes of education, and that, not only in theory, but practically, the Roman Catholic gentry enjoyed the full benefit of its honours and degrees; this could be attested by the right hon. Gentleman himself (Mr. Sheil), and also the hon. Member for Waterford (Mr. Wyse), who had both been educated in the University. As regarded the governing body, no doubt it was, and necessarily, confined to Protestants of the Established Church. The University of Dublin had been instituted since the Reformation, and the fellowships and scholarships of the House were founded for the education of the clergy of the Established Church. Not
 111 112
 Mr. Plumptre  would not have risen but for the announcement made by the right hon. Baronet, who had roferred to the conduct of the late President of the Board of Trade. For himself individually, he (Mr. Plumptre) must say, that the explanation given by that right hon. Gentleman had not been satisfactory, nor even intelligible. The announcement made by the head of the Government was, that it was determined, without conditions, to make farther concessions to the Roman Catholics; and he was quite ready to allow that, at the close of the last Session, the right hon. Baronet did intimate that such was his intention. He was much deceived if that declaration did not create a considerable sensation. He was quite satisfied that a greater sensation would be excited; and feeling as he had felt, as he did feel, and as he should continue to feel, he should not consider it his duty to repress the expression of his opinion. He deeply regretted that the right hon. Baronet had felt justified in making such an announcement. He was very sorry that the right hon. Baronet, if he might so speak, had not yet learnt that the system of conciliation was an ineffectual one. Was it not plain that every new concession led to farther demands? Concession had at all times been the fruitful parent of demand, and he was perfectly convinced that it would continue to be so as long as there remained any thing to be demanded. He should not have been satisfied with himself if he had not said these few words; and he thought it his duty to add, that the course proposed to be pursued by the right hon. Baronet would be highly unsatisfactory to a large portion of the community.
 Mr. Bellew , as one of the Irish Members who had thought fit to attend, wished to be allowed to make a few remarks. He was convinced that, in proportion as peace prevailed throughout the world, the prosperity of every portion of the empire would be increased; and he was not one who thought that the misfortunes of England, or the more general disasters of mankind, augured well for the improvement of Ireland. He, therefore, cordially rejoiced in the advantages promised by the extension of railroads in Ireland, not merely resulting from the disbursement of capital, but from the means of employment, and the habits of industry which would thereby be introduced and promoted. He placed confidence, also, in the Landlord and Tenant Commission; that confidence he had expressed last year, and his good opinion had been confirmed by the proceedings of that body as far as they were yet known. Whatever might be the recommendations of the Commissioners, he concluded that the right hon. Baronet would be prepared to found measures upon them, and no man could possibly appreciate too highly the benefits that would result to all connected with landed property in Ireland. The present condition and relations of Landlord and Tenant arose out of the unfortunate state of affairs, and he who desired to meet and remedy the existing evils of the system deserved the highest commendation. He had last year taken some part in the discussions on the Charitable Bequests Bill, and a near relative
 100 bonâ fide, 101
 Mr. Sheil  then rose and said—I may venture, perhaps, being an Irish Member, and being still of opinion that it is possible to induce an Englishman to take a different view of Irish affairs from that upon which the majority unfortunately have hitherto acted, to make a few observations, very succinctly, upon some of the opinions that have been expressed this evening. The right hon. Gentleman the late President of the Board of Trade, has left the immediate vicinage of the right hon. Baronet, and has placed himself in the more appropriate juxta-position. [Mr. Gladstone had taken his seat by the side of Sir R. Inglis.] The right hon. Gentleman has made a statement which has been heard with extreme interest, and, I will say, with concern on both sides of the House; but there is no man who feels for the public welfare who must not lament that Her Majesty is deprived of the services of the right hon. Gentleman. I cannot help thinking it unfortunate that the statesman should be sacrificed to the author—and that the right hon. Baronet should have reason to say, "Oh that my Friend had not written a book!" The right hon. Gentleman, however, in that book—for it was impossible to read it without remembering almost every passage of it—at least it was impossible for me to
 105 l. 106 l.; 107 R. Peel: 108 Chancellor of the Exchequer
 Mr. T. Baring  said, that in seconding the Motion of his hon. Friend, he thought he should best consult the convenience of the House, and show his gratitude for the honour conferred on him in being selected to second the Address, by confining himself to a very few remarks beyond the customary one, that he fully coincided in all that had fallen from his hon. Friend; and by stating that in the few observations he had to make he would endeavour to avoid all allusion to those topics which would be likely to create unnecessary discussion, or interrupt that good feeling which seemed to pervade the House with respect to the Address. He trusted that this would be a sufficient explanation of his presumption in occupying the position in which he then stood. He hoped he might be permitted to express his conviction that the circumstances of the
 53 54 55 "That as peace between England and France is a guarantee for the peace of the whole world, though for it neither should sacrifice her honour or essential interests, yet for it both should sacrifice every thing else." 56 57 58 59 60 l. l. l., l. s., d. d. l. 61 62
 Mr. Wyse  referred to what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, on the Motion which he (Mr. Wyse) had brought forward at the close of last Session on the subject of Academical and University Education in Ireland. He had dwelt upon the justice of such demands naturally occasioned by the increasing numbers and intelligence of the population of Ireland, whether Catholic or Protestant; and to this point the right hon. Baronet in his answer assured the House he had also directed his attention. The College of Maynooth was only one branch of the subject, and it had been very specifically distinguished as such by the right hon. Baronet from all others. It was a purely
 97 98 in limine, Robert Peel 99
 Sir Charles Napier  rejoiced that the noble Lord had brought forward the case of Mr. Pritchard. It appeared by that that M. Bruat disapproved of the manner in which Mr. Pritchard was expelled the island. There might have been circumstances, he agreed with the noble Lord, to justify the sending away Mr. Pritchard, but the manner in which it was done was wholly indefensible. What had M. Guizot given us? It was quite true, as the right hon. Baronet had stated, that Lord Aberdeen had demanded nothing; but he had communicated the strong feeling of the British Government on the subject of the gross outrage this country had received. Although his Lordship demanded nothing, it was impossible to read the despatches of Count Jarnac without seeing, as clear as the sun at noon day, that England expected satisfaction. At first Mr. Pritchard was to have been sent back in a ship of war, but Lord Aberdeen had hinted that a pecuniary satisfaction would not be refused. In his despatch to Governor Bruat, M. Guizot had merely expressed his regret that he could not approve of the whole of the conduct of that officer; but if a British officer
 95 96
 Sir J. Graham  had not intended to address the House, nor did he even now feel himself called on to prolong the debate for any length of time; but the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had put two questions to him so pointedly, that he thought he should be acting disrespectfully towards him, and, indeed, towards the House too, if he failed to give an answer to both. He would first answer the question which the right hon. Gentleman put last, by stating that it was the determination of Her Majesty's Government to propose an Irish Registration Bill in the present Session. As regarded the period of its introduction, he thought it quite clear, from what had been already stated by his right hon. Friend at the head of the Goment, that measures of vast importance to the country at large must have precedence of it. In the course of next week his right hon. Friend would open his financial
 109 110
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that the noble Lord could hardly be more interested than he was upon the question of Tahiti, more especially with reference to the missionaries, by whose labours, under the blessing of God, the most extraordinary conversions to Christianity had been effected. It was not with regard to the personal character or conduct of the Rev. Mr. Pritchard alone, but for the sake of those who had been engaged in the ministry for more than fifty years, that he took up the question. Although he declined to follow the noble Lord through all his remarks on the subject, still he could not but express the regret he felt that the noble Lord had assumed the line he had chosen to adopt with regard to the present question. The noble Lord stated that his (Sir R. Inglis's) right hon. Friend had acted wisely and prudently in accepting the reparation offered by France, small as it was, and he (Sir R. Inglis) would not quarrel therefore with that conduct, or do anything which might have a tendency to disturb the negotiations for that reparation, small as it was, more especially when he recollected how the least word uttered in that House—perhaps imperfectly reported, and imperfectly translated—might go far indeed to create that greatest of all evils which the noble Lord, he was sure, would deprecate as strongly as any man in the House; indeed, he had done so most strongly — namely, a collision between the two Governments, which might end in a war between England and France, and consequently lead to general hostilities throughout the world. He did not accuse any one of being guilty of any such intention; but with the impression upon his mind that he had stated of the danger of any discussion on that subject producing from the causes he had named a collision between two such bodies as the British House of Commons and the French Chamber of Deputies, he thought it the more prudent course not to venture upon following the noble Lord through all the topics of argument with regard to Tahiti. With regard, however, to the Right of Search question, upon which the noble Lord had also addressed the House, he did not think the noble Lord had acted most prudently, or exercised the soundest discretion. The noble Lord might justly take credit to himself for his exertions in connexion with that question; and he would be the last man in the House to detract from the praise he had so fairly and honourably acquired by his energetic and determined
 124 125 126
 Sir Robert Peel : I feel confident that this House will show that generous regard for the strength of private and personal feelings, if, however important are the other matters which have been introduced in the course of this discussion, I commence my observations by a reference to that subject of deep interest to me and to my Colleagues which has just been brought under the notice of the House by my right hon. Friend. For his abilities I entertain the highest respect and admiration—admiration equalled only by my respect for his private character. I confirm in every particular the statements made by my right hon. Friend. My right hon. Friend did intimate to his Colleagues at an early period, that he thought it improbable he should be enabled to co-operate with them, as a Member of the Queen's Government, and with the responsibilities and obligations which that situation implies, in the measures they had in contemplation with respect to education in Ireland. If my right hon. Friend did not immediately press his resignation, for that I am responsible. I was unwilling to lose, until the latest moment, the advantages I derived from one I consider capable of rendering the highest and most eminent services to the country, and who was a distinguished ornament of the Government. I think it right to state, or rather re-state, that it is not with regard to any question of commercial policy that my right hon. Friend has sent in his resignation. For three years I have been closely connected with my right hon. Friend in the introduction of measures connected with the financial policy of the country; and I feel it my duty openly to avow that it seems almost impossible that two public men, acting together so long, should have had so little divergence in their opinions upon such questions. My right hon. Friend has, very properly, having been so long a Member of Her Majesty's Government, felt himself precluded from referring in detail to the measures contemplated. But I, being precluded by no such feeling of delicacy, may state, in the face of the House and the
 83 84 85 86 Member: Times. 87 "Vixque tenet lachrymas, quia nil lacrymabile cernit." de facto 88 89 90 91 92 93 94
 Viscount Howick  said: I cannot avoid taking advantage of this opportunity of expressing my concurrence in what has fallen from my noble Friend as to the evils and the practical difficulties to which the Right of Search question is calculated to give rise. I cannot, however, say that I am altogether very sanguine as to the possibility of exercising the policy under which we have hitherto acted, in our endeavours to suppress the Slave Trade by force, without its aid; but I do think that the time is come when the House and the Government ought seriously to consider whether that policy is a wise one or not. I know I am expressing an opinion which is very unpopular in this House, and in the country at large. I know that both my noble Friends near me (Lord Palmerston) and the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, have considered the question as one on which no discussion should take place; but that this country ought to persevere in the policy which it has heretofore followed in endeavouring to put down the Slave Trade. Now, there is no man in this House more anxious than I am to do everything that is possible, and that is practically useful, for the suppression of that most nefarious traffic; but at the same time, while I entertain this feeling in common with so many Gentlemen whom I see around me, I cannot help pointing out to myself what the fruits have been of all our efforts for
 130 131 132
 Viscount Palmerston : The statement of the right hon. Gentleman, as a proof that the University of Dublin is open to Roman Catholics, excepting the scholars and fellows, appears to me to be very much the same as if it were said before the passing of the Relief Act, that the career of the army was open to them, barring the commissions from ensign and upwards. My right hon. and learned Friend has so completely vindicated my noble Friend from the charge made by the right hon. Baronet, of casting unfounded imputations on the Government, that it is not necessary to say another word upon the subject. My noble Friend undoubtedly reminded the Government of what nobody can deny — that, owing to past events, there does exist in the minds of the Irish people a degree of distrust of the present Government, founded on the conduct and the language, as my noble Friend put it, of that great party of which the right hon. Baronet is the head, which does make them receive with suspicion gifts and boons coming from that right hon. Baronet. That is a fact which unfortunately nobody can or does deny. I readily admit, that if the right hon. Baronet goes on in the spirit in which he has announced his intended measures this evening—and if the Irish people find that he is really prepared to consult their feelings, and regard their interests, and act upon that liberal system which he has announced it to be his intention to adopt, he may hope to conquer their suspicions; and that the detractions from the measures he proposes, may, in due time, cease to exist. Instead of agreeing with the hon. Member behind the right hon. Baronet, who said that concession is the parent of demand, I should rather say that concession, generally speaking, has only been made when extorted by long continued demand, and that such concessions have moreover been, unfortunately, too often clogged by restrictions, and narrowed by limitations, which deprived them of much of their
 113 114 quoad primâ facie 115 116 117 118 R. Peel: 119 R. Peel: 120 121 122
 Viscount Sandon  said, after the speech of the hon. Baronet who had just sat down, he felt it would be hardly fair, either to Her Majesty's Government or to the country, if the sole impression left on the public mind as to the light in which the intention of Her Majesty's Ministers to propose increased assistance from the public funds to the College of Maynooth, was viewed by their habitual supporters, were to be derived from the speech which they had just heard from his hon. Friend, and from that of his hon. Friend the Member for Kent. He thought it his duty, therefore, to rise at once, and state that he, for one, was not prepared to join with them in their opposition to such a proposition. He could not but consider that establishment to be placed in a peculiar position. He could not but regard it as an inheritance which they had received from the Irish Parliament, and as such, if on no other grounds, entitled to their support: and this not only according to the letter, but the spirit of the engagement. The principle had been fully conceded, and it was their duty to carry it out in such a manner as would have the best chance of conciliating the population for whose benefit it was intended, and of raising a theological university fitted by its magnitude to take its place among the Roman Catholic Universities of Europe, and in proportion to the great population for whose religious wants it was intended to provide. In rising, he had intended merely to enter his protest against the views of his hon. Friend; but he would take that opportunity of for a moment vindicating the measures of Her Majesty's Government from the sweeping condemnation that had been heaped upon them by the noble Lord opposite (Lord Palmerston). He alluded to the questions that had arisen between France and this country. In regard to Tahiti, the result was that which had satisfied the wishes of all sober and considerate men on all sides of the House, and he, therefore, would not enter into the details of the policy which had led to that result—nor could he recognize in the noble Lord the best counsellor for such an object—he could not forget, in him, the man whose rashness had
 127 128 129
 Mr. Gladstone  (who spoke from one of the front Benches, half way between the Treasury Bench and the Bar) replied, that as the question applied to a provision of law which took effect some months ago, he could have no difficulty in answering it. The Railway Companies which came within the provisions of the Act of last Session, with reference to third-class trains at 1 d. 134 d.
 Mr. Williams  observed that he had this time last year called the attention of the House to the strange and anomalous stale of the Sessional Orders. One of them stated that
 "No Peer of this realm, except such Peers of Ireland as shall, for the time being, be actually elected, and shall not have declined to serve for any county, city, or borough of Great Britain, hath any right to give his vote in the election of any Member to serve in Parliament." 135
 Mr. V. Smith  would not oppose the postponement of the discussion; but there was one question asked by the noble Lord which must have occurred for the consideration of the Government, and it was, whether it were the intention of the Government, when the Reports of the Board of Trade were laid before the House, to stand by them as Government measures? This point must have engaged the attention of Her Majesty's Government, and he wished to know whether the House would have to decide these matters with the weight of the Government authority used on one side or the other? He wished for a reply to this question, and thought the noble Lord had usefully and wisely brought it before the House.
 Mr. Rice  asked the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, when it would be the pleasure of Her Majesty's Government to lay upon the Table the Report of the Commissioners appointed last Session to inquire as to the several harbours of the south and south-east coast, with a view to the formation of harbours of refuge? That Report, he might observe, had been generally circulated by the public press, whilst it had not been presented to the House. He wished also to ask, whether Her Majesty's Government proposed to take any steps with regard to the recommendations of that Report?
 Mr. Williams  commented on three points contained in the Address. The first paragraph adverted to the improved condition of the country. That improved condition he admitted in the manufacturing districts, and many men had been taken into employment; but the Speech made no mention of the distress of those who were millions in number, namely, the agricultural classes. With reference to them there were indications in the country which called for the most serious attention of the Government. Witness the incendiary fires, which were an unhappy exemplification of the existence of utter distress. The Speech ought to have made some allusion to the condition of these men, from whom the value of the estates of hon. Gentlemen and others was derived. Next, as to the financial condition of the country, he denied it was so prosperous as it was represented. The expenditure of the country was much too great. The hon. Member for Huntingdon, in seconding the Address, said that the revenue last year exceeded the expenditure by the sum of 3,300,000 l. l. l. l. 156
 Mr. Speaker  said, that when the hon. and learned Gentleman consulted him about the Amendment, he told him there could be no objection to it, as it made the Resolution more in conformity with the practice of the House. With respect to the question of the hon. Baronet, the right which was referred to, and possessed by individual Members, of having the Gallery cleared upon mentioning that strangers were present, did not depend upon the Sessional Orders. It was an inherent right arising out of the ancient usage and practice of the House, and analogous to the right also enjoyed by Members of calling the attention of the Chair to the absence of forty Members, upon which the Speaker is required to see whether that number of Members are present, and if such is not the case, to adjourn the House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not think the "Government," as a Government, more interested in the matter than any individual Member of the House. The privileges of the House were the privileges of the whole body of the people, as represented in the House. They possessed by Act of Parliament tribunals for deciding upon their rights as Members of the House, and as such they had—sitting in these tribunals — the right of declaring whether any person, whose name appeared upon the poll books of an election, was really qualified to vote or not, and they had by virtue of these privileges decided that the votes of Peers for Members of Parliament were not to be admitted. The hon. Gentleman had stated that this was contrary to the law of the land. He was no lawyer himself, but he did deny, or at all events he entertained most grave doubts of the validity of the hon. Gentleman's doctrine. This House was the judge of its own privileges, and must act according to its own resolutions and determinations; and, independently of that, he would take upon himself to affirm that if a Peer had a right to vote at the election of a Member of Parliament, the House of Commons possessed the right to reject that vote, should it see fit. He saw no use for making the suggested alteration in the Sessional Orders. They maintained that it was light to exempt Members being returned from the influence of Peers and persons in authority, and the Sessional Order to this effect was one which he should be sorry to see subjected to alteration.
 Mr. Young  moved the usual Sessional Orders.
 Mr. Hume  had often appealed to that House not to stultify itself. He agreed with his hon. Friend that artisans would never allow such a Resolution to disgrace the proceedings of their meetings. It was said the Minister had no more power to decide this question than any Member; but the Minister acted as fugleman to fifty Members behind him. The distinction as to Peers should be kept up in strictness, or at once abandoned.
 Mr. Hume  said, that most important interests were involved in this question, and in the absence of the official Gentleman connected with this department, who was not then in the House, they would be legislating in the dark. The subject mooted by the noble Lord was most important. A belief existed that secrecy was not kept; that others had an opportunity of knowing what was doing, and the Government were implicated because it was a department acting under Ministers. It would be better, therefore, to postpone the discussion.
 Mr. Hume  begged to ask the Home Secretary, whether, as there was no notice taken of the subject in the Speech from the Throne, it was the intention of the Government to introduce a measure respecting County Courts? The measure of last Session had been postponed from the pressure of business. He wished to know whether it was the intention of the Government to proceed with this Bill.
 Mr. Hume  said, that although he had no objection to the substance of the Address, yet he could not allow it to pass without making some observations. Whilst congratulations were offered on the prosperous state of the finances of the country, no hope was held out of any relief being afforded to the people—an increase of our Naval Establishment was adverted to, but no hope held out of any corresponding reduction in other establishments to meet that increase of expenditure; no hope respecting the Army being reduced; no notice taken whether anything would be done in regard to the Customs or the Excise departments, in which the whole community were of opinion great changes should be made. The right hon. Baronet had taken upon himself the task of regulating the principles on which our commerce was to be founded, and he had adopted those principles partially; but he (Mr. Hume) had hoped that the House would have received an intimation from him that he was about to relieve our commercial interest from the troublesome charges to which it was subjected, and that he would remove from the list five or six hundred excisable articles when he could not produce one-half the amount of revenue which was paid for the salaries of the clerks engaged in this department. He was free to say that the Speech contained very little. The first three paragraphs were complimentary, the next adverted to increased expenditure, then the Income Tax, and all the rest was nothing. If, however, the right hon. Baronet would say he would reduce other taxes, he should have his support. Let the right hon. Baronet reduce the indirect taxation which fell so heavily upon the humbler classes. The present taxation of the country amounted to 55,000,000 l., 155
 Mr. Buck  believed that, in addition to the lines rejected, there were others which were recommended to be postponed, in which the public were quite as much in the
 151
 Mr. Wallace  begged to call the attention of the House, especially of those Members belonging to the Committees of Selection, to the waste of time and money which the present arrangements of Private Committees involved. He mentioned last Session that, in the instance of one Railway Bill, the expense had reached the enormous amount of 100,000 l. 139
 Mr. Wallace , although offering no opposition to the Address, wished to guard himself against being supposed to acquiesce in the continuance of the Income Tax.
 Mr. Wallace  had a question, of which he had last night given notice, to ask of the President of the Board of Trade, with reference to the Railway Companies who had, and those who had not, complied with that enactment of the Railway Act passed last Session, which provided for the efficient shelter from the weather of third-class passengers. He saw the right hon. Gentleman, late the President of the Board of Trade, opposite Perhaps, under the circumstances, the right hon. Gentleman would answer the question. He would rather have the information from his mouth than from an official return.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that he should renew the notice which he had given last Session—and as certainly take the sense of the House upon it—he meant his notice of moving for a Select Committee to inquire whether in any county or borough in England having a right to send Members to the House of Commons, such Members were returned through the illegal and unconstitutional interference of Peers. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated that he would be sorry
 136 137
 Mr. Wakley  said, that the improved discipline on the other side showed pretty clearly what the result of the consideration of the Income Tax would be. A Property Tax met with general approval in this country; he believed it would be impossible to propose a more popular tax; but the right hon. Baronet would find that a tax upon incomes derived from trades and professions, would not receive the consent of a large portion of the community. It was thought that if a sliding scale was applicable to any description of taxation, it was never more so than to real property as distinguished from professions and trades. However, the operation upon the public mind would be chiefly regulated by the proposals that might be made with respect to the other taxes. If those taxes which interfered with trade and commerce, injured the labourer, and pressed upon the necessaries of life, were removed, he then thought that even the present tax upon income would be borne without a murmur or complaint. It had been inferred that there was no distress among the masses of the people of this country; but among the unskilled labourers there was an amount of suffering which Members of that House little knew of. It was impossible to paint a picture of the calamities and sufferings endured by that class in such colours as the reality required. He hoped that when the right hon. Baronet brought in his alteration of the Law of Settlement, some means would be taken to alleviate their condition. The Speech from the Throne contained very little, but perhaps there was the more to hope for on that account. Already several measures, of which no mention was made in the Speech, had been announced by Members of the Government, and amongst others, that to which the right hon. Baronet had lately alluded. He should be glad to hear of an intention to abolish the Law of Settlement. The horrors suffered by the poor under the operation of that iniquitous law defied the power of language adequately to describe. This was the common practice:—A labourer who
 158 s. s. 159 s. s., 160 s.; 161 162 "That however desirable it may be that discussion should take place in the House of Commons, with a view to expose the injustice of the proceedings connected with the late State Trials, this Association is so deeply impressed with a sense of the hopelessness of obtaining redress for the wrongs of Ireland from the Imperial Parliament, that we cannot recommend that the Irish Members should be called upon to attend such discussion. That the attendance of the Irish Repeal Members in the Conciliation Hall would be most conducive to the great object of the Association—the restoration of our domestic Legislature." 163 164
 Mr. Christie  said, he believed he was at liberty to state, that the Amendment he was about to propose to the Order relative to the Admission of Strangers, was sanctioned by the Speaker. When he moved a similar Amendment last Session, his proposed alteration was resisted by the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, because from its wording it had reference to other parts of the House than the body of the House. His present Amendment, however, had been drawn up in strict accordance with the views of the hon. Gentleman opposite, and it fully met with the concurrence, as he had previously stated, of the Speaker. Under these circumstances it would be unnecessary for him to trouble the House, and he would simply move the following:—
 "That the Sergeant-at-Arms attending this House do, from time to time, take into his custody any Stranger whom he may see, or who may be reported to him to be, in any part of the House or Gallery appropriated to the Members of this House, and also any Stranger who, having been admitted into any other part of the House or Gallery, shall misconduct himself, or shall not withdraw when Strangers are directed to withdraw, while the House or any Committee of the whole House is sitting, and that no person so taken into custody be discharged out of custody without the Special
 138
 Mr. Ewart  begged to ask a question of the right hon. Baronet. He had endeavoured on all occasions, whilst performing his duties as a Member of that House, to act free from bias, and independently of his interests. The House would remember that in the course of last Session the usual mode of proceeding with respect to Railway Bills had been superseded by the appointment of a Select Committee, formed of Members not interested in the competing lines. The utility of this proceeding had been fully established by the Parliamentary agents interested in the Bills. He hoped the Government was prepared to take up this subject, and he wished to know from the right hon. Baronet whether he was disposed to relieve him from the responsibility of bringing forward the Motion relative to it of which he had given notice, as, if not, he should feel it to be his duty to proceed with it.
 Mr. S. Crawford  wished to call the attention of Her Majesty's Government to that paragraph in the Address which thanked Her Majesty for the Report of the Commission appointed to inquire into the law and practice with respect to the Occupation of Land in Ireland. He hoped that Her Majesty's Government would give some intimation of their intention to introduce a measure on this subject. He never knew Ireland in a more disturbed state than at present. Murders and assassinations prevailed to an awful extent in one or two districts of that unhappy country; and it would be quite impossible to repress such lawless violence without making some just regulation with regard to the law of Landlord and Tenant. He trusted that the Session would not be allowed to pass over without the introduction of some such measure as would satisfy the people that they would experience the protection of the law in this respect. The Address adverted to the loyalty of the people. He concurred in that declaration; but at the same time he must express his belief that a spirit of dormant discontent existed among the labouring population with regard to the Poor law, and the consequences of that measure. The people were deeply discontented on that subject. That law had had the effect of cancelling the right of the labouring men to claim from the land and the property of England their labour and sustenance; and it had given the poor man nothing in return for what it had taken from him. Such a state of things could not continue without producing a greater degree of discontent than that which unfortunately at present existed.
 Sir G. Grey  observed, that towards the close of the last Session, the right hon. Baronet had introduced a Bill for the alteration of the Law of Settlement. He wished to know whether it was the intention of the right hon. Baronet to re-introduce the measure this Session, and if so, whether it would be substantially the same as the Bill of last Session?
 Sir J. Graham  answered that when he introduced the Bill at the close of the last Session, he did so under the idea that many and very valuable suggestions would be made to the Government, and the hope he had then entertained had not been disappointed, as he had received a variety of useful suggestions, which he should think
 153
 Sir J. Graham  said he had had the honour of the charge of that Bill last Session, but taking into consideration the immense changes which had been made in the law of debtor and creditor, and that imprisonment for debt had been abolished, he could not undertake, in the present Session, to introduce a Bill to regulate the County Courts.
 Sir J. Graham  deeply regretted that reports confidentially received by the Government did, by some means, obtain publicity in the newspapers. The report in question had occupied the attention of the Government. The distinguished officers and others composing the Commission had made certain recommendations worthy of consideration, and they had proposed the construction of more than one harbour of refuge. There were, however, important considerations connected with the expense. The cost of the harbour of Dover alone was estimated at 2,500,000 l. 154
 Sir R. H. Inglis  wished to put a question to the Speaker, bearing upon the exclusion of strangers. Hitherto it had only been necessary for an hon. Member to observe that strangers were present, and the Speaker immediately requested their withdrawal, without the question being put, as in other instances, to the Vote of the House. Now he wished to be informed whether, looking at the construction of one of the Sessional Orders, it was not necessary that the question should be decided by a majority, and not absolutely by an individual Member. Ought not a debate and a division to take place on the question?
 Sir R. Peel : Instead of hon. Members saying that whispers were about that the secrets were not kept, it would be better to say explicitly what statements had been made, and to say what the allegation really was, than to make vague and not very intelligible insinuations against public officers, which were not capable of contradiction.
 Sir R. Peel : It is impossible not to feel that there is much force in the objections which have been urged by the noble Lord; at any rate to the extent that the consideration of this Order should not be proceeded with to-day. I believe that this Sessional Order is only confirmatory of the
 150
 Sir R. Peel : The House would no doubt recollect that the interference of Government arose from the strong recommendations of the Select Committee on railroads; on that Report the Committee were the organ of the House—the Report which was adopted by the House strongly recommended the assistance of the Government to assist the House. In consequence of that Report his right hon. Friend the late President of the Board of Trade did undertake the question, greatly to the credit of himself, and did devote much of his time and attention to the subject. He certainly had never understood that there would devolve upon the Board of Trade any absolute power. In the Report of the Committee they said,
 "It is the opinion of the Committee that such Reports should on no account be regarded in any other light than as intended to afford to Parliament—firstly, additional aid in the elucidation of the facts by the testimony of witnesses competent by knowledge, habit, and opportunity, and officially responsible;—and—secondly, recommendations founded on such elucidation." 152
 Sir R. Peel  was not prepared to relieve the hon. Member from the duty which he had imposed upon himself; it was very difficult to determine what was the extent of the indirect interest of constituencies in Railway Bills, and he should be exceedingly sorry to see the disqualification now enforced on Members with respect to local interests extended to this class of Parliamentary business. He was not prepared to make any announcement on the subject. His private opinion on the question was already known, but he must abstain from expressing any public opinion on the matter, as the Motion of the hon. Member for the following day would afford an opportunity for discussion. With respect to the observations of the hon. Member for Greenock,
 140 l.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that nothing could be
 157
 Viscount Howick  said: I certainly have had it in my intention to bring forward a proposition with a view to enlarge the time for receiving Petitions on Private Bills, more especially with respect to Railway Bills; and the ground on which this suggestion is justifiable in my apprehension is the extreme inconvenience and the great injustice which will be suffered, and which has been already entailed upon parties to railway projects, by submitting all such schemes to the preliminary ordeal of an examination and a judgment on the part of the Railway Committee of the Board of Trade. The House is aware that a great many decisions upon projected lines have been already pronounced by the Railway Committee, and that some of their decisions are still unknown. But, with respect to those lines which are already judged upon, and the decisions made public, I must observe, that the House and the public are left in complete ignorance of the grounds upon which the officers of the Board of Trade have pronounced their decisions. It would, therefore, be manifestly unjust to call upon those parties whose intended lines have been rejected by the Railway Committee of the Board of Trade, to decide at once whether or not they will abandon their projects; and it is for that most obvious reason I am desirous of enlarging the time for the presentation of their Petitions to this House. If we proceed at once to adopt the Resolution which is before the House, we must of necessity compel those parties whose projects have not met with the sanction, and consequently will not have the recommendation of the Board of Trade, to incur in their present state of ignorance as to the grounds of the decision that has been pronounced, all the preliminary steps which compliance with the Standing Order would impose, and consequently subject them to the heavy expenses attendant thereon, such
 141 142 l. 143 l. l. l. 144 145 146 147 "That in the case of Railway Bills, if any report made under the authority of the Board of Trade upon any Bill or the objects thereof be laid before the House, such report shall be referred to the Committee on the Bill." 148 149
 Viscount Howick  added, that he would propose to allow twenty-one days after the Report of the Board of Trade affecting any particular railway had been laid on the Table, within which it should be competent for any particular Company to present its Bill.
 Viscount Howick  quite concurred in the propriety of adjourning the discussion, and thought the right hon. Baronet had said that he substantially concurred in the reasonableness of giving time for the presentation of Railway Petitions.
 Viscount Howick  was most anxious that what he had stated on this point should not be mistaken. What he had referred to was, what had appeared in the City Article of  The Times
 Mr. Foster  would beg to inquire of the noble
 165
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, that it was not his intention to bring on the Bill of last year for the embankment then contemplated, but he did intend to introduce a Bill for the purpose of embanking a part of the Thames higher up. It was not, however, his intention to propose that the expense should be defrayed by a duty on coals.
 Lord J. Russell : If I understand the right hon. Baronet correctly, the result of the negotiations between the two Governments is satisfactory: and I agree, therefore, with him, that the production of any correspondence of an irritating nature between officers would be injurious to the Public Service. My right hon. Friend, I am sure, does not wish to have any such correspondence produced.
 Viscount Hawick  thought the explanation given by the noble Lord opposite, with respect to the principle which he had touched upon the preceding evening, perfectly satisfactory. For his own part, he should be perfectly content if a space of fourteen days were to be allowed for deliberation after the Reports of the Railway Committee were printed and made public; but then it must be clearly understood, that
 172 173
 Mr. Hodgson  wished to offer a remark upon an observation which had fallen from the noble Lord, and which might be considered referable to himself. The noble Lord had expressed an opinion, that when a line of railway which had been favour ably reported upon came before the House, it ought not to be suffered to proceed until the parties to the competing line which had been adversely viewed by the Board of Trade should have determined whether they would proceed with their Bill or not. This arrangement or regulation would, in his opinion, be extremely objectionable, inasmuch as a company, though it had resolved to withdraw from competition, might yet delay to announce its withdrawal, in order to be able in the interim to extort a compromise from the parties to the line favourably reported on. What he would propose in this respect was not that a rival line should be compelled to delay its progress until its competitor was prepared to go on, or to announce its withdrawal from the contest, but that the latter should appear simultaneously before the Committee, whether prepared to proceed or not; and that the Committee should, upon an examination of its plans, sections, and estimates, as well as of the other elements of the line, adjudicate between the two, so as to enable one of them to get through Parliament during the present Session.
 Mr. Gladstone  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had alluded to the enormous expenditure attaching to railway transactions before Committees of the House; and he concluded his speech by asking what reason could there possibly be why the inquiries of the Railway Department of the Board of Trade into the merits of railway schemes should not be conducted with open doors. He would give the hon. Gentleman one reason. It was the fear, if those inquiries were made publicly, as the hon. Gentleman would find, that before any very long time elapsed, the complaints he had made of the dilatoriness and the enormous expense of private business before Committees of the House, would be justly applicable to the Railway Department of the Board of Trade. There was very great difficulty, he admitted, in inquiries not conducted with open doors; but it was to be recollected that, as the noble Lord had most justly stated, they were in no respect to be considered binding in their result. They were in the nature of preliminary inquiries; they did not pretend to be definitive inquiries. It was quite impossible they could be definitive; and the question was whether, upon the whole, it were expedient, considering the difficulty that attended these cases, that such preliminary inquiries should be made by that House itself. He confessed he had a very decided opinion, so far as it had been tried, that the experiment had worked well; but, at the same time, he fully granted to the hon. Gentleman that any instrument of inquiry which necessarily involved secrecy, was an inadequate and imperfect instrument. It could not lead to any certainty in the decision; and, therefore, he fell back upon the declaration of the noble Lord, that the Board did not profess to give anything like a definitive result to the House. He hoped the House would be content to look at this question, not with regard to general or abstract principles, but with
 181 182 durum per medios ire satellites; Gazette; 183 184
 Mr. Entwistle  submitted to the noble Lord who originated this discussion, whether it were necessary to allow twenty-one days for the liberty of presenting a Petition
 185 l. l.
 Mr. R. Yorke  would only mention one remarkable fact connected with this subject. In the case of the Churnet Valley: Railway, the shares of which it was extremely difficult to keep at par at a certain hour of the day previous to the appearance of the  Gazette, Gazette
 Mr. Miles  begged to thank the hon. Gentleman for having informed him that it was his intention to put this question, not merely to him individually, but to other hon. Members connected with agriculture. He was merely a representative of a part of the county of Somerset, and could not state either the wishes or the wants of the agriculturists of England in totality. If the hon. Member wished for the appointment of a Committee upon agricultural distress, his proper mode of proceeding would be immediately to apply to Her Majesty's Government, and ask them whether they would consent to such a Committee. Now, for himself, and he thought he might say for those Friends who generally acted with him, he could state that they had no intention of asking the Government to appoint a Committee to inquire into Agricultural Distress. The
 188 s. s.
 Mr. Stafford O'Brien  was anxious to meet the question in the calm spirit which had marked the speech of the hon. Member for Stockport and that of the hon. Member his Seconder, and expressed his intention of not opposing the appointment of the Committee of which the hon. Member for Stockport had spoken. When the hon. Member for Durham had been a little longer in the House, before he reached the age of several Members on his own side, he hoped he would learn that to make a bullying speech was not the way to deal with the gentry of England. He would learn that, whatever might be the varying opinions as to free trade on one side and the other, or however anxious Government might be to steer a middle course between the two, yet that the best men on both sides would deeply deplore a system which would bring to questions of the nicest, calculation and difficult political economy, angry feelings and excited passions. If the hon. Member imagined that he could set the tenantry of England against their landlords, by such vituperation and abuse, he could tell him distinctly that he never was more mistaken, and he would be miserably disappointed. It was strange that in the seventh year of his agitation, the hon. Member—though he had so completely failed out of doors—should not yet have discovered the propriety of a different course. As to the hon. Member's astonishment at the Conservative Members not having brought forward recently the subject of agricultural distress, perhaps the hon. Member would leave them to manage their own matters; and they, seeing how grossly he had mismanaged his own, would not be anxious to adopt his advice. To what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet on a former occasion, he had listened with great anxiety, hoping to have heard some expressions in reference to agricultural distress,
 200
 Mr. Villiers  said, the Member for Northampton had risen apparently to reply to the hon. Member for Durham, but if what fell from him was correctly reported, the same impression could only be made out of the House which he was sure had been produced within it — namely, that he had offered no reply to what constituted the serious charges brought against the proprietors who maintained the Corn Law. One charge against the law, the hon. Member for Durham had urged with peculiar point, and which became the hon. Gentleman to answer if he had been able. It
 201 202 203 Member:
 Lord G. Somerset  said, his information upon the subject of the question put by the hon. and gallant Member was very limited. He was not consulted upon the formation of the Railway Committee of the Board of Trade, and all he could say was, that the parties most interested in the proceedings before the Railway Board had always, so far as he knew, expressed themselves exceedingly well satisfied with the candour and intelligence with which their schemes had been discussed. As to whether any of the Committee held shares in any railway, he really could give his hon. and gallant Friend no information; but he was quite sure that, if they followed his advice, they would get rid of all their shares in such undertakings, if they had any, as soon as they possibly could.
 Lord G. Somerset , in moving for leave to bring in several Bills for the Consolidation of Railway Clauses, Companies, and Lands, in England and Scotland, stated, that the object of these measures had already been explained on a former occasion by a right hon. Friend of his, it being simply to embody in one uniform Act the various enactments relative to the subjects which were scattered through many Acts of Parliament. There was an immense number of statutes relating to these matters, which occasioned a great uncertainty as to their provisions and effect; and to remedy this inconvenience the Bills in question had been framed, three for England, and three for Scotland. With reference to the proceedings of the Board of Trade, in reporting on the different conflicting lines of railway submitted to the inspection of the officers of that Board, he must take that opportunity of assuring the noble Lord opposite (Lord Howick), that it never was the intention of the Government, nor, as far as he understood their sentiments, of the House, to render the decisions of the
 171
 Lord J. Manners  said: I am not a Member of the League or of the Anti-League, nor am I a Member of the Administration who have held the scales so evenly between the contending parties during this discussion; but I cannot resist the opportunity of endeavouring to answer one of the arguments used by the
 206 207
 Mr. Speaker , on the House resuming, said, I have to report to the House that I have this day waited on Her Majesty with the Address in answer to Her Majesty's most Gracious Speech, to which Her Majesty returned this most Gracious Reply:—
 "I return My warmest Thanks for this loyal and dutiful Address. "I anticipate with satisfaction the result of your deliberations, which will, I trust, promote the prosperity of all Classes of My People."
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, it was well known he was not particularly partial to railroads, and that he had no interest in any of them; but his principal object in rising was to put a question. In putting it he hoped he should not be wanting in due courtesy to the House or to the noble Lord the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, whom he highly respected. All impression had gone forth that some one of the five Members composing what were called the Railway Commissioners—he spoke with no disrespect of them; on the contrary, he had a great respect for those hon. and right hon. Gentlemen, though, at the same time, he must say, he knew none of them personally—might have some interest in these matters; and that report having got abroad, he thought it would be wise if it were contradicted. The question, therefore, which he wished to ask was, whether any of those five Members composing the Commission, directly or indirectly, had shares in or were connected with any of those railway schemes which had undergone their consideration? He thought it right to ask this question, because there was an opinion abroad that they could not be looked upon exactly as that impartial Court of Inquiry which he was sure the House and the country wished them to be.
 Mr. Divett  had seen many persons who had been mixed up with these inquiries, but had seen no one who concurred in the views of the hon. Member for Finsbury. They were all anxious to believe that the secrets of the Board of Trade had been kept beyond the reach of suspicion; at the same time, he was not in the least surprised to hear these reports current, seeing there was a feverish speculation, such as had never before been known; and he believed that prices of shares had been affected, not solely by the particular merits of each undertaking, but largely by the spirit of speculation. He believed, that if there were any institution capable of putting a stop to the evils which had already existed, it was this preliminary inquiry of the Board of Trade.
 Mr. G. Bankes  concurred in the regret expressed by the hon. Member for Stock-port (Mr. Cobden), that in the Speech from the Throne no reference had been made to the distress which so generally prevailed in the agricultural districts. To none other, however, of the other propositions of the hon. Gentleman could he assent, nor could he for a moment think that a coalition could be entered into between the agriculturists and the League to effect the removal of that distress. And further, if the hon. Gentlemen persisted in a Motion or a Committee of Inquiry, he should not support him. He thought that an inquiry into the causes of agricultural distress was not needed. For his own part, he was satisfied to believe that the distress resulted from the changes which had been made in the Protective Laws. Whether that distress would be permanent or not, time would show; but that those changes had produced the present particular distress amongst the agriculturists, he had no doubt. The hon. Member who had last addressed the House, had referred to a speech of the noble Lord, the Member for London, in which that noble Lord stated that protection was the bane of agriculture. It remained for the House to consider
 191 192
 Mr. Bright  had attended many agricultural meetings, and had derived considerable amusement from what had taken place at them; but if one thing more than any other had struck him to be unfair in the proceedings of those meetings, it was the conduct of those Gentlemen who took upon themselves to be the counsel of the farmers, and their guardians and defenders both in doors and out of doors. Their conduct had been such for several years as made him believe that there was something rather hollow in the character they assumed. We read in a very ancient book of "dumb dogs that would not bark." Hon. Gentlemen who cultivated the soil, stated that the legislation of that House was the cause of the present agricultural distress. But were they not parties to that legislation? They were consenters to the measure which produced the distress. Surely no proof need be adduced for that, for there was a very large majority in favour of the measure which hon. Gentlemen now said had produced distress. Now the great majority of that House were landed proprietors. It did appear to him, then, that if by their legislation distress had been occasioned, the farmers had at least one claim to make upon those who voted for that measure, namely, that they should either retrace their steps, undo their work, and go back to what was right, or else they should go home to their estates, and reduce their rents down to a proper level with those circumstances which their legislation had placed their tenants in. He looked upon this refusal to inquire with very great suspicion. He believed it arose from this cause:—the public mind, and the representatives of the public mind in that House, were too much alive to allow any Committee to do what Committees were accustomed to do in former times. One of two things would be recommended—either that the taxes pressing upon the farmers should be reduced, or that greater protection to agriculture should be enacted. He would ask hon. Gentlemen opposite, whether they believed it was possible to do either one thing or the other? They might as well attempt to stay the operations of nature as to go back to the protective principle
 193 s. s. s. s. s. 194 195 "When oats were at 16 s. s. s. s. s. s. s. 196 s. s.; s. 197 s. 198 s. s. 199
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that if the noble Lord had taken the advice of the right hon. Baronet, and not spoken at all, it would have been wiser than to have risen to answer the arguments of hon. Members on that (the Opposition) side of the House. The noble Lord admitted that the agriculturists and farmers were exposed to great competition, and he also, he believed, admitted that the Corn Law was made for the benefit of the landowners, and not of the tenants; but the noble Lord forgot the population of this country, and that it must be fed, and that to be fed it must be employed; but it was admitted that the agriculturists could not employ the people. If they referred to the census they would find that about one-eighth, not more, of the population belonged to the agricultural interest. Now, the population was increasing to a considerable extent, and it must be employed and fed. They could not be employed in agriculture, and they must, therefore, be employed in manufactures; but that could not be done unless our commerce was extended; and, therefore, it was only by removing the restrictions on commerce that employment could be found for the people, and that they could be fed. He conceived that all classes would be benefited by free trade, and that agriculture manufactures, and commerce would all be well and prosperous if they only acted upon that principle. He contended that the Corn Laws were for the protection of the landlords, to increase the price of provisions, and to raise rents; and had always stated his opinion that they were most unjust and most injurious to the country. He, therefore, implored hon. Members to consider those laws, and if they were found to be unjust and injurious to repeal them.
 Mr. Cobden  said, before the question was put from the Chair, he begged to call the attention of hon. Gentlemen sitting on the Ministerial side of the House to a subject which he considered to be one of very great importance to themselves, as well as to that large class whom they represented both in and out of the House of Commons. He would do so with all deference to them. He had delayed doing so till the last moment. On all former occasions, when the agricultural districts had been in a state of distress, the Queen in her Speech to Parliament had made allusion to it. He had heard but one explanation given why the subject was not mentioned in the Speech on this occasion. An hon. Member of that House had stated that the reason why agriculture was not referred to in the Speech was, because the
 186 s. s. d. s., s. d.; s. 187
 Mr. Milner Gibson  said, it had given him great satisfaction to hear the hon. Member for Somersetshire state, as far as he was himself concerned, he would give his vote for the appointment of a Committee. [Mr.  Miles Miles: 189 190
 Mr. Macaulay : I wish to ask the question of which I gave notice yesterday Under ordinary circumstances I should not think of proposing it, because the inconvenience is unquestionable of calling on a Minister of the Crown for details of future measures alluded to in the Speech from the Throne. But, we are informed that words have fallen in another place, from a noble Colleague of the right hon. Baronet, which, though differently reported, and, I fear, differently construed, are yet generally understood to imply that it is not the intention of Her Majesty's Government, in the course of this Session, to propose to the House any measure affecting the 1 l.
 Mr. Wakley  said, the question put by
 176 l. l. l. 177 l., l., l., l., 178 179 180
 Mr. Ewart  said, he would feel obliged for an answer to the question he was about to put, if it were convenient to the Government to answer it; if not, he would put the question on some other occasion. He alluded to the trade of the river La Plata, which had been so much obstructed of late, and it would give him great pleasure to hear that there was even an approximation to an arrangement of the subject. The British merchants entertained great apprehensions regarding the trade with these parts, as the Government of Buenos Ayres had interfered with the navigation of the river Plata. He had hoped, from the aspect which things presented last Session, that some combined operations on the part of the Governments of France, England and Brazil, would be attempted.
 Sir G. Grey  begged to ask the right hon. Baronet opposite whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce during the present Session any measures for the better regulation of the Ecclesiastical Courts?
 Sir G. Grey : Sir, I rise for the purpose of putting a question to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, with reference to that part of Her Majesty's Speech which relates to the discussions that took place last year between our Government and that of France on the subject of occurrences that took place at Tahiti. Towards the close of the last Session a question was put by my hon. and gallant Friend (Sir C. Napier) on the subject of the discussions then pending, which the right hon. Baronet very properly declined to answer, on the ground that it would be detrimental to the public service to make any statement, or convey any information as to the nature of the correspondence
 167
 Sir G. Grey  thought that his noble Friend (Viscount Howick) had been misunderstood by the hon. Member opposite. His noble Friend had not proposed that the progress of any Railway Bill should be arrested or suspended indefinitely, but simply that the House would allow of a delay of fourteen days clear from the period when the Report was made public, for the purpose of enabling parties adversely situated to determine whether they would proceed or not, a stipulation which appeared fair and equitable.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that his Colleagues and himself had already given notice of the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce several measures of very great importance during the present Session; and he must say, from the experience of the two preceding Sessions, he despaired of being able to frame a measure respecting the Ecclesiastical Courts which would be acceptable or satisfactory to the present Parliament. He did not know how his right hon. and learned Friend felt disposed to act, but he himself had no intention of bringing forward any measure.
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, the right hon. Baronet has stated correctly what fell from me on a former occasion in this House with reference to the subject to which he has referred. At the same time, I do hope that, as the various subjects under discussion between the two Governments have been brought to a termination honourable to the respective countries, and satisfactory to the parties themselves, Her Majesty's Government will not be pressed for the production of the correspondence which passed on that occasion. I must observe, however, that I am perfectly ready to lay before the House a portion of that Correspondence, namely, two letters from M. Guizot, and one from my noble Friend at the head of the Foreign Department; but, whilst I express my readiness to do so,
 168 169
 Sir R. Peel : I can assure the House the prolongation of the lamentable hostilities between these two small Powers, which interfered with the commerce of
 170
 Sir R. Peel  had expressed yesterday his desire that the matters brought under
 174 175
 Sir R. Peel  said: I will not suffer myself to be drawn by the example of the hon. Gentleman into any discussion on the subject of the Corn Laws; for we had no reason to expect that such a discussion would be entered into on the present occasion. There was nothing irregular in the course pursued by the hon. Member for Stockport. Nothing could be more moderate than the tone in which he made his proposal, nor did it appear to be his intention to provoke
 204 entente cordiale, 205
 Sir R. Peel : I certainly do not feel that it would be consistent with my sense of public duty to enter at the present time into any explanation as to the character of the measure, or to any part of it, which I shall, on as early a day as the performance of other public duties will permit, bring under the consideration of the House. The House will recollect that at the opening of the last Session, the attention of Parliament was called in the Speech from the Throne to the laws affecting the Bank of England and other banking establishments in this country. As soon as the Government announced its intention of bringing in legislative measures on these
 166
 Mr. Duncombe , seeing the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool in his place, begged to put a question to him with respect to the appendix of a Report of a Committee of which he was chairman last Session—he referred to the Secret Committee on the Post Office. That Committee made its Report, and also laid on the Table of the House an appendix, which was ordered to be printed with the Report. Well, the Report was printed, but, as yet, they had no appendix. He had sent to the printer's for the appendix, and also to get another copy of the Report. The reply was, that the Report could not be got, because it was waiting for the appendix—that the appendix was waiting for a proof, and the proof was waiting for some Member of the Secret Committee. Now, that Committee's functions ceased when their Report was made to the House, and had nothing afterwards to do with the appendix or Report. He wished to ask now, therefore, why they had not got the appendix? Mr. Hansard said that it was with the Committee. He (Mr. Duncombe) was in possession of a copy of it by the special order of the Speaker, the only way, it appeared, of getting it. The appendix was in type, but not printed for general circulation. He wished to know if it was the Committee, or any Member of the Committee, who withheld it?
 Mr. Duncombe  intended to bring the subject of the Post Office before the House, and he did, therefore, hope that no further time would be lost in having the appendix put into the hands of hon. Members.
 Lord J. Russell  said, the House would no doubt be very soon in possession of the specific grounds upon which the increase in the Navy Estimates was based, and he should await the knowledge of those reasons in the full belief that they would be found valid and satisfactory. The hon. Member for Montrose had made an observation respecting the course which the right hon. Baronet proposed to pursue with regard to his financial projects. The right hon. Baronet had intimated his intention to bring forward his financial scheme at a very early period, and to state what taxes he should be prepared to reduce. He thought nothing better suited to public convenience, could have been devised or acted upon. But, at the some time, he did not understand the right hon. Baronet to intimate that he had adopted the alteration with the intention that it should be persevered in upon all future occasions. On the contrary, as he understood, it was an exception expressly adapted to the exigencies of the moment. The hon. Member for Montrose had stated that, in his opinion, the course proper to be followed with respect to finance was to settle first what the amount of the Revenue was calculated to be, and then to apportion the expenditure to that sum. The view which he and others of his own Political Colleagues took of the matter was directly contrary to that laid down by the hon. Member, for they had always maintained the necessity and expediency of settling the amount which would be required for defraying the expenses of Government, and for providing for the national defences first, and then provide, in a Committee of Ways and Means, for the mode of raising that sum. He therefore rose for the purpose of saying that, although the right hon. Baronet had adopted the course of stating what his financial views were at so early a period in the present Session, he by no means understood him to intimate that such a course would be continued in future years.
 Mr. M. Sutton  moved,
 "That a Select Committee be appointed to
 216
 Mr. Entwistle  said, that the first result of suspending this Standing Order would be to relieve the parties interested in railways from the necessity of presenting their petition with the Bill attached to it until twenty-one days after the Board of Trade had reported on such railway project. That alteration had been approved of by the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland, under the belief that a great expense would thereby be saved to the parties; whereas, upon inquiry, he (Mr. Entwistle) found that the cost of printing a Bill and preparing a petition would not exceed 30 l. l. l, à priori, 221
 Mr. Hodgson Hinde  thought it had been clearly made out by the noble Member for Sunderland, that it was necessary to take some step in order to prevent injustice from being done to those companies against whom the Board of Trade had reported. Great injustice would likewise be done if parties in whose favour the Board of Trade had reported, were obliged to delay going into Committee till the adverse Bill was in a state of such forwardness as to be committed also. He therefore hoped that the parties who were promoting an adverse Bill would be obliged to bring their case before the
 222 l.
 Mr. Entwistle  then withdrew his Amendment, the Motion was agreed to; the Standing Order was suspended, and the following Resolutions were agreed to:—
 
 "1. Resolved—That this House will not receive any Petition for any Private Bill, other than a Railway Bill, after Friday the twenty-eighth day of this instant February. "2. Resolved—That no Private Bill, other than a Railway Bill be read the first time after Friday the fourth day of April next. "3. Resolved—That this House will not receive the Report of any Private Bill, other than a Railway Bill, after Friday the thirtieth day of May next. "4. Resolved—That this House will not receive any Petition for any Railway Bill, later than the twenty-first day after the day on which the Report from the Railway Department of the Board of Trade, with reference to such Railway, has been laid on the Table of die House. "5. Resolved—That no Railway Bill shall be read the first time later that, the twenty-eighth day after the day on which the Report from the Railway Department of the Board of Trade, with reference to such Railway, has been laid on the Table of the House. "6. Resolved—That this House will not receive the Report of any Railway Bill later than the eighty-fourth day after the day on which the Report from the Railway Department of the Board of Trade, with reference to such Railway, has been laid on the Table of the House." Greene "Ordered—That on every Petition presented to this House, relating to any Private Bill before the House, the name or short Title
 223
 Lord G. Somerset  said, it was understood, if the reasons of the Board of Trade should induce the companies reported against to think it foolish to proceed, they would not force their Bills; but if those reasons should not be satisfactory, he hoped the House would give them leave to proceed with their Bills, notwithstanding the decision of the Board of Trade. The question of what should be done to prevent injury to parties anxious to go on at once would arise when he should submit his Motion, a few days hence, for a Committee to consider to what tribunal all the competing lines should be referred; when that Motion was carried, it would be for the Committee to say how far parties should avail themselves of the present alteration in the Standing Orders. With regard to the question of expense, no injustice ought to be done; but those lines had a great advantage on which the Board of Trade had expressed a favourable opinion; and whilst they must take care that the decisions of the Board of Trade should not absolutely stop the progress of any measure, they must also take care that parties did not prevent or retard the progress of others.
 Colonel Sibthorp , in reviving a Motion, which he had brought forward and obtained the sanction of the House to in the course of the last Session, stated that for some reasons of which he was ignorant, the Order which was then made on the subject had been evaded, or at least it had not been complied with. The right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) had, however, given him to understand that there was a difficulty in making out a return of the number of days during which the Poor Law Commissioners attended in the performance of their duties, because no regular roster was, he believed, kept in the public offices of the attendance of the functionaries; that being the fact, to his knowledge, with respect to the Home Secretary's office. He was quite ready to admit the ability, the perseverance, and the zeal of the right hon. Baronet in the performance of his duties, and the universal satisfaction which his assiduity and his untiring attention to his arduous occupations had given to all parties. He said this without any wish to flatter the right hon. Gentleman, and for that reason he did not require that a roster should be kept of the right hon. Baronet's attendance at his office, seeing so many proofs could be adduced of his attention to his duties; but the case was different with respect to the Poor Law Commissioners, and he should certainly like to know when and where they went; he did not mean to say they went into any improper places, but he should like to know what their attendance at their office was, and whether they attended regularly to their duties. He desired to know where they were, and what they were about. What he was anxious to obtain was a full return on these subjects; and, with respect to what had been stated to him by the right hon. Baronet,
 219 "A Return of the number of days each Poor Law Commissioner has sat in discharge of his official duty at the office appointed for such official sittings, or at any other place for the same purpose." "Similar Return of the number of days each Assistant Poor Law Commissioner has been engaged in the discharge of his official duty, the place and periods at which those have been performed respectively, whether at the office of the Central Board of Commissioners, or in visits and inspections, or other matters of official duty at the different Unions or Union Workhouses throughout England and Wales, the number of days employed therein, and the amount of expense incurred by each Assistant Poor Law Commissioner in travelling or in other incidental expenses relating thereto."
 Mr. F. French  rose to put the question to the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary of which he gave notice yesterday. He was anxious to know whether a statement
 209 Freeman's Journal, "We understand that no less than four executions have been laid upon the furniture in the Ballinrobe poor-house; one at the suit of Boileau, Son, and George, druggists; the other three at the suit of contractors; for provisions and fuel. An execution had also been laid upon the furniture of the Castlebar Union Workhouse at the suit of the foregoing gentlemen." "The goods and chattels of the Tuam workhouse were sold under an execution on Monday last, at the suit of Mr. Thomas Brenan, of Tuam. There was a considerable sacrifice of property—blankets, which were supplied at 9 s. s. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s.
 Mr. Young  moved the Order of the Day for resuming the Adjourned Debate on the Standing Orders.
 Mr. Hume  knew, by his experience of Chancellors of the Exchequer, and First Lords of the Treasury, that the existence of a surplus in the revenue was always a strong incentive to them to be lavish in the expenditure of the public money, and therefore he was of opinion that a surplus was a bad thing, and that the best way to control expenditure was by keeping the Chancellor short of money. He, therefore could not join in the congratulations of the Speech. The reason however, which had prompted him to rise on the present
 214
 Mr. Hume  was sorry to hear the objections urged by the noble Lord the Member for the City of London to the continuance of the plan adopted by the Government, because he was sure such a sentiment was in direct opposition to the practice of the noble Lord with respect to his own private expenditure. Every man possessed of discretion would endeavour to ascertain as nearly as he could the amount of his income before he regulated his expenses, and he saw no reason why so wholesome and prudent a rule should not be adopted and persevered in when dealing with the public money. He was, however, glad to have the example set for one year only, and he trusted it would be found to be productive of so much benefit as to induce the right hon. Baronet to persevere in its adoption on future occasions.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he had no objections to the Supply being granted—that is, he would not divide the Committee upon the subject; but he thought that they ought first to have heard the Government Financial Statement. He was by no means prepared to assent to any increase in the Navy Estimates. On the contrary, he thought that the establishment ought to be decreased. He wished, in allowing the Supply to be granted, to guard himself against being understood to agree in the suggestion for the increase in these Estimates. To the general Motion for Supply being granted, he had no objection; but he was opposed to the addition to the Estimates which was intended to be made. He repeated that the financial statement should be made before public money was voted. The state of the country was such that their efforts ought to be directed to the reduction in every possible way of taxation. If he looked at the Papers laid on the Table to-day, it would appear that 59,000,000 l.
 Mr. Wallace  wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department. The right hon. Gentleman was aware that an important decision had been come to in one of the Courts of Scotland with regard to the Weights and Measures Act. The decision affected the general understanding of the administration of the law on that Act in Scotland, and it had caused in particular districts a very great degree of anxiety, not to say disturbance. He begged, therefore, to inquire, whether it was the intention of the right hon. Baronet to take any steps in the matter.
 Mr. Wallace  was much obliged to the right hon. Baronet for his suggestion. The right hon. Gentleman's views of the matter quite coincided with his own, and he would postpone his Motion with much pleasure.
 Mr. S. Crawford  was extremely glad the right hon. Baronet had at length seen the propriety of adopting the course he had suggested two years ago by an amendment which he then proposed. On that occasion he had moved for the suspension of the Estimates until the amount and the sources of the Income of the year had been ascertained. The hon. Member for Montrose had seconded his Motion on that occasion, but it was rejected. He was glad, however, that the right hon. Baronet had at length taken his advice, and he was only sorry to hear that the course adopted was only for the present year.
 Mr. S. Crawford  said, that he did not then rise to oppose the re-appointment of the Committee, but simply to express his profound conviction that the perseverance in such an inquiry was a mere useless waste of time of the gentlemen who were engaged in it. If the Government were determined that the Gilbert Unions were to be done away with, they had better not institute any inquiry, for the time of the Members, and the Report, would be altogether thrown away. He had witnessed some proceedings with respect to this matter in Rochdale, the Borough with which he was connected, which had convinced him of the truth of what he asserted. In that place the Poor Law Commissioners lately had determined that the Guardians of that Union should no longer relieve their own poor. The Guardians were unanimous in their determination against this interference. They resolved not to act under the control of the Poor Law Commissioners. The people of the Union, and all connected with it, were all unanimous in the same view, and the Guardians and Magistrates refused to assemble under any such orders as had been issued. Was it, therefore, right that the Poor Law Commissioners should be permitted, or even encouraged, to force themselves in this manner upon the Union? The Guardians had been threatened with a  mandamus, 217 218
 Sir J. Graham  begged permission to address a few words to the House with reference to what had fallen from the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln. Towards the close of the last Session the hon. and gallant Member had felt it his duty to move for the Return now under the consideration of the House, to which Motion he had not offered any opposition. In the course of the present evening, he had staled to the hon. and gallant Member what he had recently repeated to the House, as to the difficulty of making any Return to the first part of his Motion—namely, that with reference to the attendance of the principal Poor Law Commissioners at their office, no roster was kept, any more than the attendances of the Commissioners of Excise, Stamps, or Customs were thus registered, and consequently, in the absence of such registry, it was impossible to make any Return to meet the demands of the hon. and gallant Member. At the same time, he (Sir J. Graham) felt bound to state, of his own personal knowledge, that no public servants were more assiduous in their attendance to their duties than were the Poor Law Commissioners; and for the satisfaction of the hon. and gallant Member, as well as for that of the House at large, he would, as far as possible, give all the information on this subject that was possible,
 220
 Sir J. Graham , in answer to the question of the hon. Gentleman, had to state that he was perfectly aware of the decision which had been come to on the subject of the Weights and Measures Act of Scotland, and he was aware that this decision affected a large portion of the community in Scotland. The decision to which the hon. Gentleman referred was the decision of a
 212
 Sir James Graham  said, that the hon. Gentleman had given notice of his intention to put a question to him, merely with respect to the Tuam Union. His inquiries had been consequently only directed to that Union. Of the affairs of the others referred to by the hon. Gentleman he was not cognizant. With respect, however, to Tuam, he could state that it was true that an execution had been put in on the goods in the house. The building occupied as the Union belonged to a private person. The rent was in arrear, and an execution for rent was put in by the landlord. He had also to state what were the circumstances of the Union in question. The Board of Guardians had absolutely declined to carry the act into execution—refusing even to appoint collectors of rates. No rates having been thus collected over the parishes comprised in the Union, the Poor Law authorities, in November last, moved for a  mandamus 210
 Sir Robert Peel  observed, that an hon. Member opposite (Mr. Wallace) had a Motion on the Paper for to-night, upon a subject of some importance, namely, for a Select Committee to inquire into the mode of conducting Private Bill Business in the House. Now, considering the immense mass of Private Business, particularly railway business, likely to come this Session before the House, he certainly thought that the appointment of such a Committee—formed of Members most versed in the Private Business of the House, to consider the existing arrangements, and if possible to facilitate the dispatch of that business, would be very expedient. Such an inquiry would be important both as to the cases of unopposed Bills, and also as to important points connected with competing Bills. Even although no formal report might be made, such a Committee would be enabled, taking those points of most pressing importance, to offer very useful suggestions to the House as to that class of Private Business likely to occupy so large a share of its attention. If, therefore, the hon. Gentleman would postpone his Motion for the present, he would take an opportunity of consulting some of those hon. Gentlemen who took the most interest in Private Business, in the course of next week, and he hoped he would then be enabled efficiently to co-operate in the appointment of such a Committee as the one in question.
 Sir Robert Peel : Sir, it may be convenient for the House, if I now state what course Her Majesty's Government intend to take in bringing forward the statement of their financial plans. I believe that it would be competent for me—without moving for a Committee of Ways and Means—to adopt the course of moving a Resolution for the continuance of the law imposing a tax upon income. But as that would not be a course which it has been usual of late years to adopt, I propose on Wednesday next to proceed in this way. I shall move on that day for a Committee of Ways and Means, asking in it for the continuance of some tax, and then upon Friday next, in that Committee of Ways and Means, I shall propose a Resolution to the effect, that the laws imposing an Income Tax in Great Britain, and an additional Stamp Duty in Ireland, be continued for a further limited period. Such is the nature of the Resolution which I shall propose to move.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that with respect to the protest of the hon. Member, no great
 213
 Sir R. Peel  said, he had resolved upon taking the course which he had given notice of his intention to take, in consequence solely of the special circumstances which marked the present Session, because the moment it became known or suspected that Her Majesty's Ministers
 215
 Viscount Sandon  had to state, in answer to the question of the hon. Gentleman, that the Report was made last year, just at the close of the Session, when hon. Members were fast leaving London for the country. The arrangement of the chronological part of the Report, contained in the appendix, was left in the hands of the hon. Member for Kendal, who had taken great pains with the subject all through the labours of the Committee. So far as he (Lord Sandon) could learn, the appendix still remained in the hands of that hon. Member. He himself knew nothing further about the matter. He had no doubt, however, but that on this public notice being taken of it, the document in question would soon be laid before the House. Perhaps he had been to blame in quitting London without having seen it in the
 211
 Mr. Baring  said, it was not the intention of Government to lay that correspondence on the Table.
 Mr. Baring : I have put the hon. Gentleman in possession of the views of Government.
 Mr. Baring  said, that the Government did not possess any further information as to what had been done in Madras on the subject beyond what the hon. Baronet was already aware of; but with respect to the proceedings in Bengal, be could state that a considerable estate, which had belonged to the temple of Juggernaut, had been restored to it, by which the annual sum of 60,000 rupees, heretofore paid to the temple, would be reduced to 36,000. Further steps would also be taken to prevent all connexion of the Indian Government with the management of any sums of money or estates set apart for the promotion of Hindoo worship, and he had no doubt that the orders transmitted from home on the subject would be fully carried out.
 Mr. Hume  said, that as there did not appear to be anything particular before the House, he had risen just to express a hope that, as the right hon. Baronet was about to lay before the House his plan of existing taxation, he would not forget the export duty on coals, on which he had been so much pressed, and with respect to which he had caused so much injury to the coal trade. As the right hon. Baronet had injured that trade so much, he hoped that in the forthcoming financial statement it would not be forgotten.
 Mr. Hume : But though Government may not do it of their own accord, will they not consent in accordance with my Motion?
 Mr. Hume  wished to know whether the hon. Gentleman had any objection to lay on the Table the correspondence which took place between the Government and the Court of Directors, with respect to the recall of Lord Ellenborough. He had moved for this correspondence last Session, but he was not in time.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  wished to ask the hon. Member (Mr. Baring) two questions. The first was as to the course adopted by the Indian Government to carry out a Minute made by the President of the Council in Bengal, in the absence of the Governor-General, for effectually separating the Indian Government from all connexion with the idolatrous worship of the natives, and for withdrawing the annual payment of 60,000 rupees to the temple of Juggernaut, and, in lieu of it, restoring lands which had belonged to the temple, with the view to their being managed wholly by Hindoos? The second question was, what progress had been made by the Government of Madras in separating the pagoda lands intended for the promotion of Hindoo worship from all connexion with, or interference in, the appropriation or management of those lands by the Government of that Presidency.
 Lord Ebrington  rose, pursuant to the Notice he gave on Friday, to present a Petition from the Rev. Dr. Carwithen, rector of Stoke Clymeland, alias Climsland, in the diocese of Exeter, praying that the statutes 2nd and 3rd of Edward VI., c. 1., and the 1st of Elizabeth, c. 2., might be repealed, and
 239 "That your petitioner is no less by inclination than by duty sincerely attached to the Protestant Church of England and Ireland as by law established, and therefore views with pain and regret the excited state of the diocese of Exeter, in consequence of several of the parochial ministers attempting a strict compliance with the Rubrics contained in the Book of Common Prayer, to the observance of which their attention has been especially called by the high authority of their Bishop. "That your petitioner and his clerical brethren are bound, not only by their ordination vows, and by canon to 'reverently obey their ordinary in all things lawful and honest,' but are also liable to be indicted at the assizes held before my Lady the Queen's Justices in the county where the offence is committed, by any layman or other person whatsoever, for not complying with the Rubrics in the Bonk of Common Prayer in every particular even to the minutest point, under the statutes of 2 and 3 Edward VI., c. 1, and 1 Elizabeth, c. 2, and if convicted thereof 'by verdict of twelve men according to the laws of this realm, or according to their own confession, or by the notorious evidence of the fact,' will have to suffer heavy fine and imprisonment, and for the third offence deprivation of all ecclesiastical promotion, and imprisonment for life; and the Archbishops and Bishops are equally liable to the same indictments and penalties as the clergy. "That your petitioner is, and always has been, very desirous to perform his clerical ministrations in such manner and form as the Rubrics require and custom has sanctioned; but in the present very excited state of the diocese of Exeter, and in consequence of three pastoral letters of the Bishop of that See, as it appears to your petitioner of very uncertain and different import, your petitioner is at a loss how to act with safety to himself and satisfaction to his parishioners in his official ministry, and that moreover it appears to your petitioner that the difficulty can only be gotten rid of by legislative enactments, as under the existing laws neither the Archbishops nor Bishops, individually or collectively, can alter or dispense with a single provision contained in the Rubrics. "That in the opinion of your petitioner the Book of Common Prayer and its Rubrics are nearly in a state similar to that on the return of King Charles II. to this kingdom, when, being found defective and unsuited to the times, a royal letter was addressed to convocation, commanding a review of the Book of Common Prayer, when the convocation entrusted the business to a Committee, who made alterations and additions, which were submitted to and approved by Parliament, and confirmed by 13 and 14 Charles II., c. 4. 240 "Your petitioner also, with all due deference, ventures to remark that Parliament has, without the consent of convocation, altered a Rubric, namely, as to the publication of banns of marriage, by passing the 26 George II., c. 33. "Your petitioner therefore humbly prays your honourable House to take the subject into your gracious and serious consideration, to cause the statutes of 2 and 3 Edward VI., c. 1, and 1 Elizabeth, c. 2, to be repealed, and to adopt such measures as to your wisdom may seem fit, to procure a calm, moderate, and temperate review of the Book of Common Prayer, Rubrics, and Canons of the United Church of England and Ireland, as may have the effect of settling those differences of opinion and practice which now exist among those who have all subscribed before their respective bishops, and published to their parochial congregations the declaration 'that they will conform to the Liturgy of the Church of England and Ireland as by law established.'"
 Mr. S. Wortley  understood the hon. Member who had just sat down to complain of the effect of the publication of the Reports of the Committee of the Board of Trade upon speculation in railway shares; and he doubted whether in that respect the regulations were not disadvantageous; he doubted whether it was expedient to publish the result of the inquiry before the Report was made to Parliament. Looking at the immense number of speculations, he had thought that some such inquiry by an official tribunal would have promoted public confidence, and assisted the House in its decision; but publishing their determinations was necessarily productive of the evils stated by the hon. Member for Nottingham. It was to be borne in mind, however, that this mischief was already done—that the consequences could not now be avoided; but as to the other part of the question, it was impossible not to feel that it pressed extremely on the attention of Parliament. He alluded to the mode in which the House should deal with the mass of projects to be brought before it. That was a matter of the utmost urgency. The noble Viscount (Viscount Howick) had made a speech on the best mode of securing the public interests; but he feared that his plan was liable to one objection, which alone rendered it inapplicable to the present occasion, viz., that it was so entire a change in the whole system, that it would require much more extensive organization than the House at present could give to it. The hon. Member for Nottingham (Mr. Gisborne) had said that where there were competing lines it was necessary that Government should first ascertain which was the best, and then require tenders for the completion of it; but, in truth, a great deal more must be done. Government might determine which of two lines was the better; but that which seemed the better of the two might not really be the best—a third line might be found better than either, or that third line might be compounded of parts of the two former. The scheme of the noble Lord might present some great advantages; but he had himself admitted that it was by no means desirable that such a vast mass of speculation should be deferred until another year. Yet, if the noble
 276
 Colonel Wood  said, he would take the earliest opportunity of expressing his regret at having heard his right hon. Friend propose the last article of his measure. He would give his right hon. Friend credit for the attention which he had paid to this important question; but he had no doubt that the substitution of Union for parish settlements, instead of being a benefit to the poor man would prove the greatest injury that could be inflicted on him, for then there would be no disposition among those well to do in a parish to take care of their poorer neighbours, and to set them to work, as those who could not get employment would be thrown on the Union; and whenever a time of difficulty should arise, they would find vast numbers of persons thrown on the rates because they were Union and not parochial rates. He was surprised to hear his right hon. Friend say that there had been no parochial settlement
 324 J. Graham: l. 325
 Mr. Heathcote  having on a former occasion drawn the attention of Parliament to the subject of the noble Viscount's Bill, was glad to avail himself of the opportunity to second the Motion. It appeared to him to be extremely unjust to tax a poor locality for the sake of the community. A desire had been expressed to relieve the farming classes from some of the heavy burdens which pressed upon them. On the farmers the tax in question fell with peculiar force, for they supported the whole expense of maintaining the roads. He had observed the same evasions practised as had been pointed out by the noble Lord. Stage coaches were exempted from tolls amounting to several hundreds per annum by reason of their carrying a letter-bag, which often contained no more than two letters, and which the coachman's pocket was sufficient to hold, whilst on the other hand they were loaded. The noble Lord despaired of effecting the change he desired. He (Mr. Heathcote) was sorry for that; he was quite confident if the Government looked into the matter they would find it a subject worthy of attention, and the grievance one proper to be redressed. He begged to second the Motion.
 [Colonel Wood : "Hear!" Forty days' residence previous to that Act!] From the time of Elizabeth down to that Act the Law of Settlement was unknown. Parties wandered from parish to parish, attracted by woods and commons and other advantages, of which, as rogues and vagabonds, they made themselves masters; and the justices were directed to send them to the parishes whence they came. Until the passing of the Poor Law Amendment Act the administration of the fund for the relief of the poor was strictly parochial. The parochial administration thus ceased, the union administration then began. Therefore there was nothing new in the principle of the
 333
 Lord Dalmeny : I rise, Sir, to put the question, of which I have given notice. I feel justified in adopting this course, not only from the importance of the subject, but from the deep interest which the country to which I belong takes in it. The House is no doubt aware of a statement made some time back as to the dreadful extent of destitution which prevailed in Scotland, and that the present system of Poor Laws was totally inadequate to meet the exigencies of the case. No sooner had that statement appeared, than various remedies were proposed, and Ministers appointed a Commission, with ample powers to investigate and report, as well as to suggest such remedial measures as they thought best adapted to
 245
 Lord Dalmeny : It is not my intention to do so, and I will at once put my question; first, whether it be the intention of Government to introduce any measure for the alteration and amendment of the Poor Law in Scotland, and, whether, if they do so, it will be in accordance with the Report of the Commission of Inquiry of last Session.
 The Speaker : The noble Lord is not at liberty to enter into an argument on the subject, on his notice to ask a question.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said that it was seldom his good fortune to agree with the noble Lord who had just addressed the House; but on this occasion he highly approved of what had fallen from him. Still he wished to ask the noble Lord why he had delayed these suggestions and recommendations to the eleventh hour? Would it not have been better if they had been introduced at an earlier period, when the railroad mania first commenced? He had agreed with the noble Lord that there would be extreme difficulty in finding impartial Members to compose the Committees on these railway schemes. He should be glad to find these questions capable of being brought before impartial men. Doubting the possibility of this, he the other night asked how far the five gentlemen who constituted the Subcommittee of the Board of Trade—with their  clausis foribus, ex parte 267
 Mr. E. B. Denison  thought that the country must feel under great obligations to the right hon. Baronet for his attempt to deal with the present Law of Settlement; for no law could be more absurd in its provisions, or more cruel in its operation.—What, for instance, could be more absurd or cruel towards a man, who had been born and brought up in a town, than that he, upon his unfortunately becoming chargeable, should be liable to be removed, along with his wife and children, to some distant parish, the name of which he perhaps never heard of, because neither he nor his father, nor his grandfather, had ever gained a settlement in the parish in which he lived.—Nothing was more certain, than that a man removed from a parish, where his habits had been formed, and his employment of a settled character, to another parish where no similar employment could be found, remained along with his family a burden upon the parish for life. The present Bill of the right hon. Baronet met this case half-way—but not more than that; for, although it did not refer back to the birth-place of the father or grandfather, it did to that of the man himself; and he, therefore, along with his young family, would be liable to be removed to the place of his birth, on becoming chargeable,
 331
 Mr. G. Bankes  agreed with the hon. Member who had just spoken, that the only principle upon which in this country we could hope to receive the full benefit of railroads, was the principle of competition. It was unfortunate that that Committee of the Board of Trade, which was established undoubtedly for the very best purposes, should have had the effect of checking that principle; and with reference to the county which he represented, he was certainly able to give an illustration of the mischief of it. They had had there propositions of several railways under different and powerful bodies, and he believed he might say that the proportion of the inhabitants of the county was as twenty to one in favour of the lines proposed by the South-Western Company, one of those being in the highest degree important, as it went through a part of the county where the roads were by no means so good at present as might be wished, and where there was some of the richest land, without any ready facilities of transit, either by water or land; but with reference to the new
 278 279
 Mr. Bankes  wished to say, in explanation, that he was not the representative of any of the proposed lines of railway, and merely spoke in reference to the interests of the county he represented. He had not a share in any railway company.
 Mr. Darby  wished that the hon. Member for Finsbury had attended Private Committees as often as he had done, and the hon. Member would not have said that the Committees were overridden by the Bar. As for the assertion that the Bar
 297
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was extremely sorry he could not give the noble Lord the satisfaction he desired of intimating his consent to the measure which he had proposed to bring in. Whatever might be the inconveniences to which the noble Lord had referred, the House could hardly consider them sufficient to induce Parliament to subject all Her Majesty's mails to a heavy burden such as that of tolls. The exemption enjoyed by the mails was already of a comparatively old date, going so far back as the year 1785. A
 337 l.
 Mr. Warburton  expressed his concurrence in what had been said by the noble Viscount, respecting the danger of sending capital out of the Kingdom, to be employed upon railway schemes less advantageous than many of those promised to be. It was material, therefore, not to discourage enterprises in this country which seemed to offer a beneficial investment. He had listened to the project opened by the noble Member for Sunderland, and the fault of it seemed to be that it would be impracticable. First, engineers were to survey the country; they were to reject the disadvantageous, and to select the advantageous line; then the line was to be laid before Parliament, after which Parliament was to take the matter into its own hands, and to constitute a Company to carry out its own plan. Another part of the proposal of the noble Viscount was this—that after the line had been decided upon, the Company was to go before some other body, and tenders for the execution of the work having been made, the cheapest was to be adopted. This course would occasion some sort of a moral obligation to give to the Company a monopoly for a term of years, and that monopoly would prevent the adoption of those improvements which must constantly he made, until we had arrived at the utmost perfection of railway construction and travelling. He was opposed to any such power being given to Government; and he was persuaded that if railway communication had been left to Government only to this day, we should not have had a single line in operation. After having beaten down the Company to the lowest, a term of years must necessarily be conceded to them; and yet it might turn out
 277
 Mr. Bright  was quite of opinion with the hon. Member for Brecon, that when this proposition of the Government became known throughout the country, there would be a very strong opposition manifested to it. Still he was inclined to hope that there would be a disposition to co-operate with the Government in endeavouring to arrive at some better settlement of the question than that which now existed. Though he looked upon this new measure with some fear, and he might perhaps say with some little suspicion, yet he confessed he had seen in the county in which he lived, cases of hardship so terrible that he should be very glad indeed to co-operate with any party in arriving at some settlement which might remove what he could not help regarding as a disgrace to the country in which we live. He was not surprised that the hon. Member should remark on the Government withdrawing the clause by which removal was prevented after a residence of five years in a pariah. He could assure the hon. Member that that clause would have met with the most strenuous opposition from all the towns in the kingdom; and he believed there would
 326 d. s. s., "Reith, near Richmond, Yorkshire, 10 th October, "Anthony Pratt,—I send you this sovereign on the conditions you state in your letter—namely, to remove to another township. On receipt inform me. Yours truly, "JOHN ALDERSON." 327 328
 Mr. Roebuck  was not about to address the House upon the immediate subject of debate, but he could not but make a few remarks with reference to the speech of the hon. Member for Finsbury. It appeared that because the Poor Law Commissioners seemed to the hon. Member for Finsbury, not what he had on particular occasions in that House declared them to be, or as he had considered them formerly, he now called upon the right hon. Baronet not to allow forty-eight hours to pass before he had applied to the House for an increase of their power. Let the hon. Member then look back to the long course of invective which had been used with respect to those Commissioners, and let others regard the expressions which had been applied to them. Let them recollect how those gentlemen had been attacked as the "three tyrants of Somerset House." Or as an hon. Member reminded him—as "pinch paupers," and that every other term of reproach had been applied to them; and then let them reflect upon the speech they had just heard. He would ask the hon. Member for Finsbury, before he again hastily expressed his opinions on such subjects, to place more faith in those who had more accurately and carefully considered those matters. He had been one of those against whom the finger of scorn had been pointed by hon. Members, because they had ventured to support the Poor Law. He now fixed his finger of scorn against those hon. Gentlemen. There were persons who were so careless, that they did not mind what expressions of opinion they gave utterance to, so as it suited the matter in hand. When it suited one of those persons, he could talk of "the three tyrants of Somerset House." But again he could come round and talk, if it suited him, of increasing the power
 311
 Mr. Brotherton  did not wish to consider this measure with regard to the manufacturing districts exclusively; on the whole he was sure it was conceived on a principle which was very much in favour of the poor man. The measure was a great improvement on the Bill of last Session, particularly as to the settlement within Unions. The removals from one parish to another within the same Unions were at present a
 329
 Mr. Brotherton  thought that there was much greater reason to complain of the length of the speeches and proceedings of Members of that House in the private Committees, than of the addresses of the Bar. He was a Member of the Committee on the Railway Bill which had been so particularly alluded to by the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland. That Committee had sat for sixty-one days, and he had voted in not less than 101 divisions during the progress of the Bill before it. The reason of this was, that a certain number of Members of the Committee were determined that the Bill should not pass, and they divided on the most frivolous objections. The barristers engaged against the Bill were encouraged to raise points, and to make objections to its progress which they otherwise would not have thought of doing. With regard to the frequent adjournments of Committees on Private Bills, he had had considerable experience on this subject; and he was satisfied that a vast number more such adjournments took place for the convenience of Members of that House who wished to be present, than at the request of barristers. In consequence of his observations he had always been in favour of having a Private Committee constituted of either five or seven Members; and he was satisfied that if this were done, many of the grounds of complaint which now existed would be removed, and amongst other things, the speeches of counsel would be shortened. But, whatever tribunal was formed, to which the decision on these questions was referred, it would be found that some objections would be raised. He thought, however, that a Committee composed of a few Members would be the best tribunal, and there would be a pretty good certainty of regularity of attendance on their parts.
 Mr. Henley  said, that if the view he took of what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman were correct, this was the first step to break up the parochial system of England. The country had for several years past seen the parochial system strongly contrasted with the Union system, and in many parts of the country the parochial system appeared in a very favourable point of view, when so contrasted. To this measure, then, as the first attempt at breaking up that system, he could not give an unqualified assent. How far were they to go, in breaking up the parochial system in this country? For ecclesiastical as well as pauper purposes, the same arguments might be used in order to destroy the parochial system; it was somewhat strange, he thought, that the Government should apply what he must consider a small remedy to a great evil. What were they going to do with the poor man? Their object ought to be to let him go wherever he could get a better market for his labour. This system of Unions would not effect that; it would not enable him to go from Hampshire to Cornwall if he liked; but that was what he wanted to be able to do. For some time the Legislature had been making it impossible for the poor man to get away from the spot where his father and he were born; the Bill went certainly to enlarge these little spaces, but the remedy was too small, for what the poor man wanted was to be able to go all over England with his labour to sell. He must enter his protest against the commencement of the destruction of the parochial system of England.
 Mr. Henley  declared, that he could not but feel surprised that the hon. Member who had just sat down should have thought fit to praise the Poor Law Commissioners, who were the persons who taught the Boards of Guardians to go upon the contract system at the beginning of the organization of the New Poor Law, and that a man of his quick perceptions should have fallen into the trap which had been laid for him by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department. Public opinion, which was the best corrector of abuses, had been expressed unequivocally on the subject before the House; and here the Poor Law Commissioners when pressed upon to interfere and do away with the system which they have hitherto gone upon, were unable to act—a natural consequence of that one-sidedness of the law which left them power to do mischief, but deprived them of the means of doing good. But with regard to this practice of bone-crushing, what was the fact? If the Poor Law Commissioners had not the honour of originating it, the credit certainly was to be given to the Assistant Poor Law Commissioners, who went about the country, saying, "What a capital mode of labour this is;" or talking to the various boards, and suggesting it—"Oh, let the people try bone-crushing, and you will be sure of keeping them out of the house." Who was the person who had the honour of having made the original suggestion he did not know, but he knew that it had originated in his county, as he had mentioned. He could not but express his surprise at the short memory of the hon. Member for Finsbury, who had now praised the Commissioners for
 313
 Mr. Wallace , in reply, said that he was gratified with the tone of the discussion throughout; and after what had taken place he should not think it necessary to divide the House. If he should happen to be Chairman of any Committee on a Private Bill, he should propose that they should not be compelled to break up their sitting immediately it was announced that the Speaker had taken the Chair, but that they should be enabled to go on until they had finished the point before them; for as it was, the agents often, for the mere purpose of delay, impeded the progress of a Committee until the Speaker took the Chair. If this suggestion was not adopted, he should take care to adopt the proceeding followed by the Chairman of the Private Committees in the House of Lords, whenever an attempt was made to prolong the proceedings unnecessarily—to appoint the meeting at a very early hour the next day. He would always commence with assuring the counsel or agent, if an attempt was made to break up a Committee of which he was a Member, by announcing that the Speaker was in the Chair, that he should adjourn it to next morning at nine o'clock. This would soon put an end to any such attempts at delay. He could not conceive on what principle the
 298
 Mr. Wallace , in bringing forward the Motion of which he had given notice, said he had no personal reflections to cast on the Board of Trade. He had always been received with courtesy by the late President, and the present noble Lord who presided over that Board, and they had afforded him every information which he desired. He felt that the subject to which he was now about to call the attention of the House, was more important even than the matters which would be referred to in the financial statement on Friday. The question was, whether the people of this country, being subjected to a network of railways, would admit of a most dangerous monopoly in the management of them. He should establish by statistics, as far as he could, the truth of the statements which he submitted. He first maintained that by means of the Railway Department of the Board of Trade, that Board had arrogated to itself an enormous amount of business which properly belonged to that House. In fact, the Board of Trade was not qualified for the superintendence of railways: its more legitimate duties were to watch over and protect our commercial intercourse with foreign states, and to see that our commercial and trading relations with them were duly carried out. He had voted last year for the Railway Bill, but he had done so in the hope of being able, at some future day, to open up the whole question, and to do away, as far as practicable, with the monopolies under which the public suffered. He believed that nineteen-twentieths of the people of this country would say that they ought to be relieved from the oppression, loss of health, and destruction of property which resulted from the effect of the present system of railroad management. An important document had been given him by the noble Lord the President of the Board of Trade. That document contained a list of all the companies which had given notice to the
 247 248 Gazette s., d. s., d. s., d. s. d., s. d., 249 s. d., d. s. d., d. s., d. d., d. s., s. d, s. d., s., s. d., s. s. s. d. s. d., s. s. d., s. d. s., s. d., 250 d. Railway Times 251 Railway Reform, d., d., d. s. d. s. d., s. d., d. 252 253 254 d. 255
 Mr. Gisborne  said, that although in the last Session of Parliament he was opposed to the Railways Bill which was then passed, yet he could not now go the length of his hon. Friend (Mr. Wallace) who brought forward this Motion. That Bill was very much impeded in its progress, and strongly contested, and it was at last passed by a sort of compromise. He believed, that although it might not have produced all the good which was expected from it, yet at the same time he thought it had done very little harm; and it would now be impracticable to interfere with the Bill. He had listened with great attention to the able statement made by his noble Friend (Lord Howick), who had given a very vivid description of the difficulties in which the House was involved in deciding between questions affecting concerns in which immense sums and large interests were at stake. But, however great the question and vivid the description, it afforded no index whatever as to the means for facilitating and devising a remedy. There were three railway schemes for lines between London and York. Suppose the noble Lord's suggestion should be adopted, and one of those lines only should be sanctioned, what compensation did the noble Lord propose to make to those who devised the chosen line? and what was to become of the two other schemes? The noble Lord would take advantage of all the expense which the parties had been at before the plan had been submitted to the Board of Trade, and then, perhaps, abandon the line altogether. But suppose none of the three projects should be adopted by Parliament, and that Parliament should decide upon a more direct line than any of those projected, how would the parties whose money had been expended be treated then? One word about the deciding upon a proper line by the Board of Trade. The House might depend upon it that it was most difficult for any body of men to come to a
 268 269 "That, in the case of Railway Bills, if any Report made under the authority of the Board of Trade upon any Bill, or the objects thereof, be laid before the House, such Report shall be referred to the Committee on the Bill." "Whether any and what competing lines of Railway there were existing, and whether any and what were in progress or contemplation, and to state, so far as circumstances would permit, in what respects the proposed line was superior or inferior to the other lines; but that no line of Railway should be deemed a competing line in contemplation, unless the plan, section, and book of reference for the same should have been deposited as required by the Standing Orders." "That, in the case of a Railway Bill, the Committee report especially, whether any Report from the Board of Trade in regard to the Bill, or the objects thereby proposed to be authorised, has been referred by the House to the Committee, and if so, whether any and what recommendations contained in such Report have been adopted by the Committee, and whether any and what recommendations contained in such Report have been rejected: and, in case the line or lines be stated in such Report to be a competing line or competing lines, the reasons which have induced the Committee to recommend the adoption or rejection of such competing lines, or either of them." "That in the case of Railway Bills, a copy of all plans, sections, and book of reference, required by the Orders of the House to be deposited
 270 "That, in the case of Railway Bills, a copy of every Bill annexed to a petition be deposited in the office of the Railway Department of the Board of Trade, on or before the day of presentation of the Petition to the House." "In recommending, therefore, that Railway Bills be submitted to the Board of Trade previously to their coming under the notice of Parliament, the Committee conceives that that Board (or such other public department as may be entrusted with the care of railway matters), might advantageously examine these Bills, and also these schemes themselves before they had assumed the form of Bills, with regard mainly to the following subjects—
 
 "1. All questions of public safety "2. All departures from the ordinary usage of railway legislation, on points where such usage has been sufficiently established. "3. All provisions of magnitude which may be novel in their principle, or may involve extended consideration of public policy. For example; amalgamations and agreements between separate companies; extension of capital; powers enabling Railway Companies to pursue purposes different in kind from those for which they were incorporated; modifications of the general law. "4. Branch and extension lines in cases where, upon the first aspect of the plan, a presumption is raised that the object of the scheme is to throw difficulties in the way of new, and probably legitimate enterprises. "5. New schemes, where the line taken presents a strong appearance of being such as to raise the presumption that it does not afford
 271 "6. Cases where a Bill of inferior merits may be brought before Parliament, and where a preferable scheme is in  bonâ fide "7. Any proposed arrangements with subsisting companies which may appear as objectors to new lines. "The adequate and satisfactory discharge of their duties would entail upon the Board of Trade a great additional amount of labour and responsibility: and it is the opinion of the Committee, that if the recommendations of this and of its other Reports should be adopted, it would be necessary to enlarge the Railway Department of that Board, and to improve its organization. Upon these grounds, and with these intentions, the Committee have come to the following resolution: 'That it is expedient that all Railway Bills should henceforward be submitted to the Board of Trade previously to their introduction into Parliament; and that the various documents and other requisite information connected with each project, and, if necessary, copies of the plans and sections of the line, shall be lodged at the office of the Board of Trade, at such period as may afford sufficient opportunity for their examination.'" Robert Peel: Gazette. Gazette, "It is the opinion of the Committee that such Reports should on no account be regarded in any other light than as intended to afford to Parliament, firstly, additional aid in the
 272 Gazette, 273 l. l. Gazette, Gazette, 274 Gazette. ex parte 275
 Mr. Wakley  wished to move for a Return
 "Containing a description of the diplomas, licenses, or other letters testimonial, that are admitted and sanctioned by the Poor Law Commissioners as legal qualifications which entitle Medical Practitioners to be appointed Medical Officers of Poor Law Unions in England and Wales." "It shall not be lawful for any of the said
 299 
 "1. A diploma from the Royal College of Surgeons in London, together with a degree in medicine from an university in England, legally authorized to grant such a degree, or together with a diploma or license of the Royal College of Physicians of London. "2. A diploma from the Royal College of Surgeons in London, together with a certificate to practise as an apothecary from the Society of Apothecaries of London. "3. A diploma from the Royal College of Surgeons in London, such person having been in actual practice as an apothecary on the first day of August 1815. "4. A warrant or commission as surgeon or assistant-surgeon in Her Majesty's Navy, or as surgeon, or assistant-surgeon, or apothecary in Her Majesty's Army, or as surgeon, or assistant-surgeon in the service of the Honourable East India Company, dated previous to the 1st day of August, 1826." "That if it shall not be practicable for the Board of Guardians to procure a person residing within or near the district in which he is to act, and duly qualified in one of the four modes recited in Art. 3, to attend on the poor in such district, or that the only person resident in or near such district, and so qualified, shall have been dismissed from office under the seal of the Poor Law Commissioners, or shall be judged by the Poor Law Commissioners to be unfit or incompetent to hold the office of medical officer, then and in such case, the Board of Guardians shall cause a special minute to be made and entered on the usual record of their proceedings, stating the reasons which, in their opinion, make it necessary to employ a person not qualified as required by Art. 3, and shall forthwith transmit a copy of such minute to the Poor Law Commissioners for their consideration; and the Poor Law Commissioners may, if they think fit so to do, permit the employment by such Board of Guardians of any person duly licensed to practise as a medical man, although such person shall not be qualified in one of the four modes required by Art 3. Art 5. Provided also, that it shall be lawful for the Board of Guardians, with the consent of the Poor Law Commissioners first had and obtained, to continue in office any medical officer duly licensed to practise as a medical man already employed by any such Board of Guardians, although such medical officer may not be qualified in one of the four modes required by Art. 3." 300 "With respect to the first of these subjects, we explained in the last annual Report (s. 31) the nature of the difficulty which we had found in the state of the law affecting the validity in England of medical qualifications derived from a Scotch source. We then stated that, according to the best legal advice which we had been able to obtain, it appeared to us that a person having merely a medical qualification derived from an university or other body qualified to grant medical diplomas in Scotland or Ireland, could not be considered as coming within the words 'persons duly licensed to practise as a medical man' in (s. 109) of the Poor Law Amendment Act. Since the date of that Report, we were induced to consult the Attorney General and Mr. Martin on the subject; and they gave it as their opinion that persons having a surgical diploma or degree from a Royal College or University in Scotland or Ireland, are legally as competent to be medical officers under the Poor Law Amendment Act as persons having the diploma of the Royal College of Surgeons in London; but that persons having only Scotch or Irish medical qualifications are not as such competent to practise pharmacy in England and Wales. Accordingly, by a letter dated the 31st of August, 1843, which was sent to all the Unions, we stated that we considered ourselves justified by this opinion in admitting persons having a surgical diploma or degree from a Royal College or University in Scotland, to the same rights under the Poor Law Amendment Act, as Members of the
 301
 Mr. Wakley , in explanation, said, that the paper from which he had read had been put into his hands since he had entered the House, or he should certainly have intimated to the right hon. Baronet
 296
 Mr. Wakley : The right hon. Gentleman has made a very useful and practical speech; but the great difficulty which he alluded to on a former occasion he has passed over in silence—what is to be done with the barristers? The Members of the House will be completely victimized if they
 286 Morning Chronicle, Morning Chronicle? "It may be that counsel do in these Railroad Committees make gold out of iron, with 'express train' haste—peradventure, also, the fees are out of all proportion to the amount, intricacy, or difficulty of the business done; but, then, it is not for doing the business eminent, eloquent, and able men are retained, but for overmastering the committee." 287 "Elevate your Parliamentary tribunal to the intellectual stature of your Parliamentary bar, and the remedy for proxility, diffuseness, the introduction of extraneous matter, and such shocking bad law that it can only be called 'crowner's quest law,' is near at hand." "On matters of fact, the writer continued, allow your Committees the jurors' province of decision, but in matters of law aid them by a competent legal assessor, having judicial responsibility, and, of course, assuming judicial power. It is not from any vulgar greediness of gain, as is coarsely and ignorantly imputed, that counsel now waste the time of committees in frivolous speeches and driftless examinations and cross-examinations, but it is because they level themselves down—with all respect be it said—to the intelligence of a Parliamentary tribunal, high in mere worldly, but low, very low, in judicial intelligence. Placing no reliance at all on the judicial discrimination of their judges, Parliamentary counsel do undoubtedly often address to Committees the most preposterous propositions in law, and, finding such absurdities tolerated, contend for victory, and sometimes obtain it, often in the teeth of law, of fact, and common justice." 288 Economist, "Now, this is no doubt all true; nor have we have any reason for believing that any one connected with the Board is interested in railways; and the care which Mr. Gladstone appears to have exercised to secure the Board against any suspicion is highly creditable. But there are many other facts which are notoriously true, and to which we would not even allude, did we not know them to be so; and which, we think, are in themselves quite sufficient to excite the strongest feelings of disapprobation at the constitution and power of the Board. It appears, that shortly after the appointment of Sir James Graham's private Secretary as a Member of this Board, his brother was engaged by the South-Eastern Railway Company, at a large salary as manager of that line, in which position he still continues." "The Standing Rules of the House require that Railway Companies intending to apply for an Act in the ensuing Session of Parliament
 289 l. Member 290 l., l. l. 291
 Mr. Wakley : Finding that this practice actually has got advocates, and that, too, in the noble Lord, and in the hon. Baronet, the Member for Cornwall,—finding that it has actually advocates too in this House, I must say, that I fear the local interests are much stronger than I was at first inclined to believe. I thought that it was by some accident that the atrocious practice had fallen under the notice of the hon. and gallant Member; but that the noble Lord should rise in his place in this House, and ask, "How is this labour to be performed, if it is not done by the paupers?" does, I confess, confound me. Well, the Poor Law Commissioners certainly have more to do than I thought they had. I must say that; and, moreover, I am bound to acknowledge, that they have been the protectors of members of my profession against the parsimony of the local Boards of Guardians. Why, under the circumstances which have been stated, I should be inclined to give them more authority. I certainly am of opinion that the Secretary of State should not delay asking for more authority to be given to those Commissioners within forty-eight hours. What, Sir, the paupers to be employed in crushing and grinding bones in a state of rottenness and decomposition! Such a poisonous, odious, filthy, abominable occupation; and that, too, to be defended by a noble Lord, in his place in this House! The noble Lord surely can't have spent any time in a workhouse. It is really most distressing to hear such statements made in Parliament; and, I fear, if the noble Lord has sanctioned such practices in his own workhouse, that the practice in question is but too general throughout the country, and that it will be found necessary to give the Poor Law Commissioners power to check and prohibit them. I have already stated that the Commissioners have protected the members of my profession against the avarice of the Guardians. Of one case, I may now tell the House. In a Union, of which I will not now mention the name, but may do so hereafter, a medical officer was dismissed "because," it was said, "he had been too liberal in giving food to the paupers." Without one case being
 310
 Mr. Wakley  said, the circumstance which had struck the members of the medical profession as most extraordinary was this,—that, after the opinion he had read, no general order had been issued by the Commissioners to alter the general order promulgated in 1842. The opinion of the Attorney General, obtained in 1843, clearly showed that medical men possessing diplomas or degrees from Scotch or Irish Colleges could legally practise as medical officers to Poor Law Unions in England; and yet no steps were taken to alter the general order which had been issued a year and a-half previously on this subject. He hoped that, when the right hon. Baronet brought forward his Bill on the subject of Medical practice, he would recollect that, inasmuch as the present Chief Baron had given it as his opinion that Irish and Scotch surgeons could practise surgery and medicine, though not pharmacy, which was the preparation of medicine, in Poor Law Unions, it was not necessary to repeal the Apothecaries' Act in order to admit those gentlemen to legal practice.
 Mr. Wakley  had only one word to say, in Consequence of the right hon. Baronet having alluded to the favourable manner in which the Bill had been received. In offering no opposition to the introduction of the Bill, he did not wish it to be inferred that he was favourable to its provisions. It was a tremendous measure: it was a measure of enormous importance, and it was an attempt to break up the parochial system in this country, which, if carried into effect, would, he believed, operate in a very extraordinary manner on the social condition and feelings of the people of this country. The hon. Member behind the right hon. Baronet had feared that it would lead to something else, and in another direction. What he feared was, that it would have a direct tendency towards perpetuating the power of the Poor Law Commissioners [Mr.  Roebuck: 334
 Mr. Wakley  said, that he did not know whether it was Parliamentary or not, that improper motives should be attributed to a Member of the House. It was said by the hon. Member for Bath that he had made statements in that House for the
 312
 Mr. Ewart  felt the importance of every subject connected with the railway system, but he could not agree to the Motion of his hon. Friend. His hon. Friend began by referring to the constitution of the Board of Trade respecting railways. He had, from the foundation of that Board, objected to the principle of it. His hon. Friend, in the course of his observations, had alluded to the possibility of adopting the foreign system of taking tenders from different companies for the formation of railways; but that was a system which, although it might do very well in France, he did not believe would succeed in this country. He had always entertained the conviction, since the establishment of the Railway Committee, that recourse should not be had in the first instance to any branch of the Government; if a Board was to be formed at all, it ought to be subsequent, and not anterior to the Committee in Parliament. The first point to accomplish was, to reform the Parliamentary Committees. Let them be constituted of a
 256 257
 Mr. Crawford  said, that when he heard an increase of power to the Poor Law Commissioners proposed, he felt it to be his duty to protest against any such measure. He did not deny that there had been abuses with respect to the grinding and crushing of bones; but there were other means of remedying such abuses, without increasing the power of the Poor Law Commissioners. Those, and other evils, arose from the system of making the entrance into the Poor Law workhouses the sole condition of relief. He was afraid evils were necessary, but he was desirous of limiting them as much as possible; and he wished to see some better method of employing the poor adopted, whilst he was unwilling to attempt to remedy the present abuses by giving increased power to the Poor Law Commissioners.
 Sir C. Lemon  said, that as far as expressions of disapprobation went, there certainly did appear to be a condemnation of the practice of bone crushing in poor-houses, and he would not have risen but he believed that it was a particular description of labour not remarkably offensive to those engaged in it, nor in any way unwholesome. He had seen a good deal of the labour, and could speak of it, and he was sure that it was neither more unhealthy, offensive, nor injurious than breaking stones, or any other employment of that nature. He put it to the right hon. Baronet that, if he cut off that source of employment from the paupers, he should at least suggest some other means of using their time and labour. The hon. and gallant Member had told them that the first time he had ever been within the walls of a workhouse was recently, although he had heard him frequently speak upon their mismanagement, and he hoped that the hon. Member would take more frequent opportunities of enlarging his knowledge respecting them.
 Captain Pechell  said, that although the noble Lord, echoed by the hon. Member for Cornwall (Sir C. Lemon), had so lauded the practice, he, nevertheless, hoped that it would soon be checked. He could not but call to the recollection of the House a petition which had been presented to them from a pauper who had been brought to death's door by his treatment in a certain workhouse, where it was made a matter of punishment that be should be sent to the bone-mill. He did not think that the noble Lord, who was fighting so nobly for his absent colleagues, could maintain his position; and he hoped that the right hon. Baronet would continue his opposition to the practice, and insist upon the Poor Law Commissioners issuing peremptory orders upon the subject. That was the more necessary, as in the poor-house which he (Captain Pechell) had in his mind, the Guardians actually thought that they were carrying into effect the opinions of the Commissioners with regard to the employment of paupers, by continuing that practice, and imagined that they had, by so doing, made it the model of a Bastile. He had only to hope that the noble Lord would repeat to his colleagues at South Molton what he had heard of the opinions of the hon. Baronet and of the Commissioners, and that he
 309
 Captain Pechell  rose to move for the Return ordered the 25th of July, of all Union Workhouses under the Poor Law Amendment Act, in which the pauper inmates thereof are, or have been, employed in grinding or crushing bones by means of mills, machinery, or otherwise; together with the date of such erection of mills or other machinery, and the names of the
 305 306
 Sir J. Graham  begged to assure the hon. and gallant Officer, that he had last Session pressed upon the Poor Law Commissioners' attention the fact, that it was his urgent desire that those Returns should be laid before the House previous to the termination of the last Session, and he believed that every care and diligence was used to comply with the Orders of the
 307 308
 Sir J. Graham  said, his impression was, that, after the opinion of Sir F. Pollock and Mr. Martin had been obtained, a general order on the subject was issued by the Commissioners, but he could not positively state that such was the case. He was, however, quite certain that, either in the form of a circular letter or of a general order, the effect of that opinion was intimated to the various Boards of Guardians.
 Sir J. Graham , in rising to move for leave to bring in a Bill to consolidate and amend the laws relating to parochial settlement, and to the removal of the poor, said—I do assure the House that I am at all times most unwilling to occupy unnecessarily any part of their time, yet when I consider the magnitude and importance of the subject which I venture on the present occasion to bring under your consideration—when I am about to explain the course which I think should be taken on this important subject, I am afraid I must claim some portion of your indulgence, for I cannot do justice to myself with reference to the extent of the changes I am about to propose, without explaining to the House the reasons which have led me to recommend those changes. When I last addressed the House on the subject I ventured to remind them of its immense importance. It is only necessary to state two or three facts to bring that importance prominently to your recollection. It is a melancholy fact, but still a fact, that no less than one-tenth of the whole population of England and Wales receive relief from the poor-rate in the course of the year. A multitude no less than 1,500,000 persons in this country receive relief from the poor-rate. The magnitude of the sum also thus paid is very great. I can bring this fact to the recollection of the House in various ways. I may state it thus: it is no
 314 l., 315 316 "The Memorial of the Board of Guardians of the Thetford Union, in the counties of Norfolk and Suffolk, showeth—That your memorialists beg most respectfully to express their unanimous dissent from the proposed alteration in the Law of Settlement, more especially those clauses which relate to settlement by birth, and irremovability of persons after five years' residence. That with regard to settlement by birth, your memorialists are of opinion it would be a great inducement to the owners of the entire or the principal part of parishes, to clear them as much as possible of the population, by purchasing or building cottages in adjoining towns and more open parishes, where the poor would be compelled to reside, and where, of course, their children would be born, thus relieving their own parishes at the expense of others. That with respect to the irremovability of residents of five years, your memorialists consider the same objection applicable, as care would be taken to remove them before the five years' residence was completed, and that it would operate very much against the poor by forcing them from the rural parishes, where cottage rents are comparatively low and gardens easily obtained, to towns and more populous parishes, where rents are much higher. That it would also remove many from the spot where their labour is required, and thus add a long walk to their day's work." 317 318 319 "And be it further enacted, that in any Union already formed, or which may hereafter be formed, in pursuance of or under the provisions
 320 
 "1. That it is the opinion of this Board that all parochial settlements are bad in principle, and tend to oppress the labouring man unjustly. "2. That, in order to provide a remedy for this evil, it is absolutely necessary that the system of parochial settlement be entirely abolished; and, in lieu thereof, that districts be formed of whole Unions, for the
 321 "Whatever course, however, the Legislature may deem most fit to take in reference to these important matters, we would most strenuously urge upon those in authority, if they wished to make the present or future Unions more beneficial, the absolute necessity of making all the townships in a union as one for the purpose of settlement and assessment. As the law now stands, one part of a Union can remove paupers to another, and enter into litigation, as if they had no connexion. It destroys that feeling of mutual interest and identification which should exist; and each Guardian gives his attention (more or less) exclusively to the cases and interests of his own particular township." "Much of the difficulty that I expected would follow the administration of the Law of Settlement, according to the provisions of this Bill, would be done away with, if settlement were not a parochial accident, but were made to relate to unions or rather larger territorial divisions—as, for instance, the City of London, the City of Westminster, and the several metropolitan Parliamentary boroughs. There is a growing opinion that rating as well as settlement ought to be more widely and so more equally spread, that is, over districts, instead of parishes." 322 "Altrincham, Bolton, Bury, Bakewell Burnley, Chorlton-upon-Medlock, Chorley Congleton, Chapel-en-le-Frith, Huddersfield, Hayfield, Kendal, Leek, Manchester, Macclesfield, Northwich, Nantwich, Prescot, Stockport, Stoke-upon-Trent, Wigan, Warrington, West Derby, and Wolstanton, and Burslem." "That for the purposes of relief and settlement, the distinction of parishes and townships should no longer exist, and that each Union should become liable for, and chargeable with the relief and maintenance of its poor." 323
 Sir J. Graham , in reply, thanked the House for the favourable reception they had given to his Bill. He must say, that when he made the proposition he was almost alarmed at the great extent of it, and certainly he was astonished at the observations which had fallen from two hon. Gentlemen, whose objection was, that the measure was still insufficient. The hon. Member for Oxfordshire had said that the change, to be effective, should impose no check upon the Hampshire labourer wishing to go to Liverpool, or on the Norfolk labourer wishing to go to Manchester. Why, if that principle were adopted, it would amount to a total repeal of the Law of Settlement. Then, the hon. Member for Yorkshire had urged, that wherever a party resided, for however short a period, he should there have a settlement. That, again would be the total abolition of the Law of Settlement. Such extensive propositions could not be entertained; and, with respect to what had been said by the hon. Member for Brecon, he would answer that by referring to the Act of 13 and 14 Charles II., sec. 12. What were the words of the Act?—
 "Whereas the necessity, number, and continual
 332
 Sir James Graham  said: It is perhaps scarcely necessary for me to say that, after the speech of my right hon. Friend at the head of the Government, nothing was further from my intention than to address one word to the House upon this subject. I certainly was not prepared, however, for the introduction of my name in this discussion, inasmuch as I thought, if the hon. Gentleman had intended to introduce it, he would at least have had the courtesy to inform me that such was his intention; but I do not complain in the least that, without any notice, he has introduced my name on the present occasion in a manner so direct and so intelligible. I have heard before something like an allusion to the subject which forms the topic of the article that the hon. Gentleman has read; and my name now being mentioned in direct terms, I am sure that the House will feel—though it is always painful in a public assembly to speak of oneself—I am sure that the House will feel that this discussion is forced upon me. I will state, having held a seat in this House for now nearly thirty years, having seen the first commencement of railway speculation, having had a seat in this House in 1825, when so much speculation was on foot, and having taken an active part in the private business of this House, that I never in my life thought it consistent with the discharge of my duty either to hold a share in, or to form any connexion, directly, or indirectly, with any railway company or speculation whatever. So much for myself. Now, with regard to the two relatives of mine to whom also the hon. Gentleman referred—the Messrs. O'Brien. Those two gentlemen were educated professionally for the army, and they have served in different branches of that service. Having to make their way in life, they did not think it incompatible with
 292 Economist 293 Economist Economist. Economist 294 295
 Sir J. Graham  said, the right of persons holding diplomas of Scotch and Irish colleges to practise generally in connexion with the Poor Law Unions in England, was a matter involved in some doubt. The hon. Member for Finsbury would surely admit that the opinions of the present Chief Baron, and of Mr. Martin, Queen's Counsel, were entitled to the greatest respect on a matter of law, and as to the construction of an Act of Parliament.
 303 304
 Sir J. Graham : I am not at all surprised that the noble Lord, as a Scotchman, should take a deep interest in this subject. I am quite satisfied that he has not exaggerated the importance and difficulty of the question. The noble Lord, though not arguing the question, has made something like a statement, and I hope I shall be excused for following his example. The noble Lord and the House are aware that the code of laws for the regulation of the poor in Scotland has existed for two centuries, and has been referred to by the highest authorities as a proof of the wisdom of the Legislature by which it was conceived, and also, until a recent period, of the prudence and caution, and I will also say, of the humanity of those by whom it was administered. Now, Sir, in these circumstances, recollecting always that any change in a law possessing such authority, if proposed by Government, is an irrevocable step, I need hardly tell the noble Lord and the House that it becomes the Executive Government of Her Majesty to exercise the utmost caution and consideration, before they venture to propose to Parliament any alteration whatever in such a law. For it should be borne in mind that whether under this law, or independently of it, the people of Scotland have acquired a great pre-eminence in science, agriculture, commerce, and productive industry. To touch such a law, therefore, I say again, requires the utmost caution. At the same time, I will tell the noble Lord that the anxious attention of the Government has been directed to the Report and Evidence to which he refers. I am of opinion, on the whole, that some legislation will be necessary; but at this moment, it would be premature to pledge myself to the precise time when a Bill will be introduced;
 246
 Sir R. Peel  said, he did not at all mean to suggest that his hon. Friend had, or that he represented a railway company in that House; but what his hon. Friend now said was just the reason which contained his objection, viz., that the representative of the county would come to that House and express himself dissatisfied with a certain decision, as injurious in its consequences to the local interests of that county.
 Sir R. Peel : I trust that this debate will not lead to a discussion of the merits of competing lines of railway, which the House is at present utterly incompetent to enter into. No doubt many persons are disappointed with the decisions of the Board of Trade; it may be that they have good grounds for that disappointment; but this House, upon the present occasion, is utterly incompetent to form any opinion upon the subject. Having listened to my hon. Friend the Member for Dorsetshire with great attention, I will only say, that if my hon. Friend ventures to assure the House that the Board of Trade has come to an impolitic decision, and can convince the House that there is a better line than that which the Board of Trade has recommended, and if the promoters of that better line will only goon and form their company and present their Petition to this House, I am certain their proposition will undergo full and fair consideration, because it is perfectly understood that the decisions of the Board of Trade are not to be considered conclusive on the judgment of the House. My firm belief is, that the value of the Reports of the Board of Trade will depend upon the statements and arguments by which they are accompanied; and if my hon. Friend can show that any particular statement is unfair, or any argument fallacious, with respect to the lines alluded to by him, I think that his rival plan will stand a fair chance of being adopted. I cannot but think, however, that we are undertaking to condemn rather precipitately the proceedings of the Board of Trade. That Board was appointed at the close of the last Session, with the entire sanction of
 280 Gazette; 281 282 283 res integra ab initio, 284 285
 Viscount Ebrington  was reminded by what fell from the gallant Member of a subject which he wished to press upon the attention of the right hon. Baronet. These small tenants generally got exempted from the payment of the rates; and thus the share which their landlords properly ought to bear, was thrown upon that of the neighbours. The general outline of the measure, he must say, he heartily approved of; the right hon. Baronet had, in fact, proposed to grant really a great boon to the working population of this country. He wished here to correct an error which some hon. Gentlemen had fallen into, in supposing that it was no boon to the labourer to allow him to change his place of abode, in order to seek for work within the Union, because there were some districts in which, within a short distance, there was a great disparity of wages. He rejoiced that the right hon. Baronet, with the apparent assent of the House, had thought fit to give some credit to a much maligned class of persons—the political economists.
 330
 Viscount Ebrington  said, that as one who was connected with an Union workhouse where bones were ground and crushed by machinery, he wished to make a few remarks on the present occasion. If those bones were to be crushed at all, by whom was it to be done? By free and independent labourers only, and not by paupers? Certainly it was a new doctrine for him to hear, that work which was too offensive for paupers should be performed by free labourers; for, performed under proper regulations in the open air, or in well-ventilated sheds, it was not unwholesome. Being convinced, that as one of the Guardians in this case, he had not been a party to ordering any unjust, unfair, or unwholesome employment for the paupers of the South Molton Union, he trusted that they and those of other Unions which had adopted the same system, would persevere in it as long as the law allowed them to do so. [Sir  C. Lemon:
 Viscount Ebrington , in rising to bring under the notice of the House the injury done to turnpike trusts by the large exemption from tolls given to conveyances carrying letters, referred to the petitions on this
 335 l. 336
 Viscount Howick : I rise, Sir, with no intention of supporting the Motion of the hon. Member for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal the measure of last Session; on the contrary, I think the Bill, as far as it goes, is, upon the whole, a good one; but, at the same time, I do concur with him in his opinion that it is of the deepest importance to this country that we should take measures to secure to the public the advantages of greater cheapness of railway travelling; and I believe, with him, that hitherto our measures have been defective for that purpose; that the public does not derive that benefit from this invention which it ought to obtain; and I also feel that this present Session is an opportunity which cannot be lost for looking into this subject without very great inconvenience. A multitude of Bills are about to be brought before us; and before those Bills are disposed of—before we create new vested interests and new rights, we ought to consider seriously what are the measures it is in our power to adopt in order to secure to the public the greatest amount of accommodation from those railways. The hon. Member for Dumfries has stated that all that is required is to improve the constitution of the Parliamentary Committees to which Railway Bills are referred. No doubt this is one of the great points to be attended to; and the noble Lord opposite (Lord G. Somerset) has already this evening moved for the appointment of a Committe to consider how that object may be attained. But while I admit that it is of great importance to improve the constitution of the Committees to which these Bills are referred; at the same time, I own I am not sanguine as to the possibility of providing, by any reform of these tribunals, a satisfactory mode of disposing of the immense mass of business of this description which is to come before Parliament in the present Session, unless some greater change is adopted than has been hitherto suggested. It appears to me that the evil is this, that whether it is the Board of Trade or a Parliamentary Committee that is to decide on these questions, they here to dispose of interests of too
 258 l. l. s. l. l. l., 259 260 l. l. l. l. 261 l. l. l. l. l., l. l. 262 263 264 265 266
 Mr. Williams  submitted that, from the present abundance of money in the country, a reduction upon the interest of Exchequer Bills from 1½ d. d. 346
 Captain Harris  hoped he should be excused if he noticed some injurious rumours which had been spread relative to the part taken by a noble Relative, and by himself, with reference to the Dorchester and Southampton Railway.
 338 l. 339
 Mr. Bouverie  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet if it were true that a negotiation was on foot for a Commercial Treaty with the Brazilian Government? If such a negotiation had been entered into, it seemed absolutely certain that the Brazilian Government would insist on a reciprocity Treaty. The Treaty of 1827 was one of that nature, and there was an additional reason for assuming this as a probability amounting to certainty, because more than one-fifth of the export of that country consisted of sugar. Now, there could be no doubt, if the Brazilian Government insisted on a reciprocity Treaty with respect to that article of produce, no prospect remained of an agreement between Her Majesty's Government and the Brazilian, so long as that frivolous distinction was kept up in our Statute Book between free-labour and slave-labour sugar—a distinction which, as they had been forewarned from that side of the House last Session, had proved to be utterly so, inasmuch as the only sugar yet imported from a foreign State, under that law, had been slave-labour sugar from Venezuela, and the only sugar that was at present expected to come in any quantity, was the slave-labour sugar of New Orleans. That distinction, if they were to have a Treaty on the footing of reciprocity, must be abandoned. In expressing the hope that this would be done, he felt sure that he was expressing the hope of a very large portion of the country. He trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would, as he had done on former occasions, put his consistency in his pocket, and at once remove the inequality. He wished to know whether any negotiations were proceeding with respect to a Commercial Treaty?
 Lord John Russell : The right hon. Gentleman has given notice that on Friday next he will make to the House a statement of the utmost importance to the country—a statement not only as to the revenue and expenditure of the year, but comprehending also the questions that may arise respecting the trade and commerce of the country. Respecting the Resolution of which he has given notice, there may be more than two courses to be taken. Not only the Motion may be assented to in its present form, or dissented from, but, thirdly, an Amendment may be moved in the words of the present Resolution. Such being the case, and the whole circumstances being of so much importance, I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether he proposes to take a Vote on the Resolution on Friday, or whether he proposes, after the statement being made in a Committee of Ways and Means, to call upon the House on a future day to decide upon his proposition.
 Lord John Russell : I think it will be convenient to take the sense of the House on the Resolution of which the right hon. Baronet has given notice. I should be very glad to give notice of any intention of mine, but that will depend on the course to be taken by the right hon. Gentleman, and I hope I shall be acquitted of taking any persons by surprise in the course I shall take on that occasion. Such being the case, I hope the right hon. Baronet will consent that the Vote should not be taken on Friday, and that he will name some other day for that purpose.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, that as the hon. and learned Member had not particularly addressed the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, perhaps he (Mr. Hope) might be permitted to answer the question. With reference to the Election Petition said to be pending, he knew nothing of it, as they (the Colonial Office) got no notice of the proceedings of the Canadian Assembly, except by the transmission of the journals at the termination of the Session, and the Executive did not interfere with these proceedings. What he did know he would state very shortly, and he should be quite ready to produce the papers required. It appeared, that previous to the election at Montreal, an application had been made by the opposition candidate, in which he stated that the stipendiary Magistrate thought it would be advantageous to commence polling under military protection. To this the Returning Officer would not consent, and in no case was military aid resorted to until all other means had failed, and it became absolutely necessary. It was true that preparations were made to prevent any disturbance taking place, large numbers of workmen being expected to interfere. They did come in, the military were in readiness, but they acted upon one occasion, and one only. With reference to these transactions, the stipendiary Magistrate's Report concluded by stating that every effort and arrangement had been made by Mr. Young, the Returning Officer, to secure order and free access to the poll for both parties, and that his efforts were so succesful, that though a disturbance ensued, not a single life was lost. He believed that the access was perfectly free on both sides, the only persons obstructed being the nonvoters from the surrounding districts. In consequence of this report, Sir C. Metcalfe, in his despatch, stated that the preservation of life and property at the election was attributable to the services of Mr. Young, and another gentleman, Captain Wetherall, whom he designated as a most valuable public servant. The Governor expressed his gratification that no life had been sacrificed, and stated that great credit was due to the troops and to the officers, and that, without their assistance, it would have been impossible for the voters to have exercised the franchise freely, in consequence of the intrusion of non-voters. On the receipt of that despatch, which had arrived before the Canadian Parliament had met, and before, therefore, it was pos-
 341
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved a Resolution for a vote of 18,404,500 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  trusted he should be able to give the right hon. Member satisfactory answers to his inquiries. The right hon. Member would be aware that when he proposed to effect a reduction in the interest of the Three-and-a-Half per Cents., he 'availed himself of the oportunity of obtaining powers to pay the interest in the various stocks at uniform periods, and in order to effect this, it became necessary to pay some of the interest before it became due. For instance, one stock paid interest half yearly, while others paid quarterly, and thus to make the time uniform, the interest, in one or two instances, was paid in October, when hitherto it was not paid till January, thus necessitating a charge of 1,300,000 l. 347 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the hon. Gentleman had now repeated the observations he had made on former occasions, and he was afraid he could now give the hon. Gentleman no more satisfaction than he had given him on those occasions. It should not be forgotten that there was a very great difference between sums lent for short periods at small rates of interest, and stuck, which might be considered as of a mere permanent character. Since the hon. Gentleman had last spoken on the subject, the premium had varied eight, nine, and ten shillings; and he ought not, therefore, to argue that because the premium was now high, it necessarily followed that the interest on Exchequer Bills could be reduced.
 Mr. Ricardo  said, it had been generally understood, from the manner in which the change of the Sugar Duties was proposed last Session, that some further change would be introduced during the present. He thought the right hon. Baronet would put an end to a great deal of uncertainty if he would inform them whether that was his intention. He confessed he was very glad to hear that the negotiation with the Brazilian Government for a reciprocity Treaty was given up. All he heard about reciprocity treaties convinced him that the matter lay in a very narrow compass, and that our end would be much better attained without that expedient. It would be well for the right hon. Gentleman also to consider whether it would not be advantageous to give up those differential duties, which imposed a very formidable burden on the country without any counter-balancing benefit. He had thought that, on going into Committee of Supply, it would not be out of order for him to make some mention of those general principles by which he conceived their deliberations ought to be guided.
 Mr. Roebuck  rose, according to his notice of the previous evening, to ask the Government a question relative to the late elections in Canada. It was one which he put with great reluctance, because the present system of Government could only be looked on as an experiment, and he was unwilling prematurely to express any opinion as to the proceedings which were going on. Circumstances had occurred, however, which now induced him to allude to the subject. During the last year Sir C. Metcalfe dissolved the Parliament of Canada. New elections took place, at which, particularly in Montreal, disturbances had occurred. A Petition had been presented to the Legislature of Canada, complaining of the legality of the election, and impugning the conduct of the Returning Officer, the Sheriff of Montreal. That subject was at the present moment under the consideration of the due and proper tribunals, and what he wanted to know was this—whether Her Majesty's Government had any peculiar circumstances to state or lay before the House, for the purpose of explaining the conduct that had been pursued on the part of the Colonial Secretary, with respect to the Returning Officer of the city of Montreal. He had been given to understand, and he wished to know whether such was the case, that, notwithstanding the complaints that had been made against the Returning Officer, the Secretary for the Colonies had advised that Her Majesty's thanks should be given to him. He wished to know whether the statements that had been made to him were true; namely, that the thanks of Her Majesty had been given to the Returning Officer of the city of Montreal at a time when his conduct was under the consideration of the proper tribunal—the House of Assembly? And if that question were answered in the affirmative, the next question he should wish to put would be, whether there would be any objection to lay before the House the despatch in which those thanks were conferred, so that the House might know the circumstances under which the Colonial Secretary had taken so extraordinary a step?
 Mr. Hume  thought the House ought to have before them the details of the circumstances which had led to the extraordinary changes which had recently taken place in the public mind in Canada. Great discontent now reigned in the Colony, and if they wished to preserve the Colonies in a state of usefulness to the country, they must govern them according to the wishes of the majority of their population. While Sir Charles Bagot was there unanimity and contentment reigned, but no sooner had a change of Ministry taken place than discontent arose. The Governor dismissed his Executive Council, and for nine months governed without one. This gave rise to dissatisfaction and discontent. Hence had arisen those scenes which had taken place at the elections; and it appeared to him to be necessary that all the documents connected with the subject should be laid before Parliament, so as to enable them to ascertain what had caused those sudden changes.
 Mr. Hume  hoped that the laxity observable in the Exchequer Bill Officers on late occasions would be checked in future.
 Mr. Christopher  wished to put a question to his right hon. Friend at the head of the Government, which was suggested by the recent wanton destruction of the Portland Vase, at the British Museum. From the police reports of that morning, it appeared that the magistrates had no power to exact from the destroyer of that precious relic of ancient art a penalty higher than a floe of 5 l., 342
 Mr. Gibson  would merely express his hope that the right hon. Baronet would abandon all attempts at commercial treaties. It must strike everybody that with the countries with which the right hon. Baronet might negotiate as to import duties, even if treaties of this kind were desirable, they could not possibly be effected. The difficulty lay at home, and it would be far more satisfactory to the House, if the right hon. Gentleman were to tell them that commercial negociations were going on successfully with the Central Society for the Protection of British Agriculture, than it would be to hear of such being in progress with any foreign power. Unless you could induce the class interests to make the sacrifice, if it were a sacrifice, and to consent to a reduction of import duties on leading articles of consumption and food,
 344
 Mr. F. T. Baring  wished to ask one or two questions of the right hon. Gentleman. He observed in the late balance sheet that the total charge of the funded debt was set down at 29,963,000 l., l.,
 Sir Robert Peel : I at once acquiesce in the proposal of the noble Lord. With respect to the period of Easter, I trust the House will feel the importance of proceeding with that business which may be proposed on Friday next with as little delay as possible. So far as Government is concerned, it will certainly be their duty to postpone the consideration of other business until the general views of the House with respect to the future policy of the country have been ascertained. But I have no hesitation in agreeing to the proposal of the noble Lord, that no Vote shall be taken on Friday next.
 Sir Robert Peel : Certainly, if it should be objected to that the House should concur with the proposal to be made on Friday, I shall not press for a decision. The noble Lord has put a right construction on my intention; and in endeavouring to explain to the House the views of the Government with respect to the financial state of the country, I shall also state their views
 345
 Sir R. Peel  would answer the hon. Gentleman's question as to the case as it stood at present, and set aside speculations regarding the future. There was no ne-
 343
 Sir R. Peel  said, the Trustees of the British Museum intended to hold a meeting on Saturday next for the purpose of considering this important subject; the result of that meeting would in all probability, be known to some communication on their part by Her Majesty's Government. He would, therefore, not express any opinion till that communication should be made, further than that the question was one of the deepest importance.
 The Solicitor General , in calling the attention of the House to the communication made by the Sergeant-at-Arms yesterday, as to what course he should adopt in an action of trespass brought against him as an Officer of the House, said he should not trouble the House at any length, as he did not anticipate any opposition to the Motion he was about to submit. He should pro-
 383
 Lord J. Russell  said, that as the proposal was merely to follow the precedent of 1843, he should not occupy the time of the House in arguing the question. The House having then come to a decision on the question, he should not now re-open it, though he still retained his opinion as to the proper course to be adopted.
 Mr. Corry  said, that he felt it his duty to oppose the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Marylebone, not only because he thought it would be difficult to convince any body of men less qualified than a Committee of the House of Commons to form a just opinion on the subject matter which he proposed to refer to it, but also because he could not consider the adoption of the Motion in any other light than as an indirect vote of censure on the Board of Admiralty, of which they were quite undeserving; for there was no branch of their public duties to which they had devoted more attention than the improvement of ships. When the present Administration entered upon office, they found nineteen ships of the line building, or ordered to be built, the whole upon the lines of the Surveyor of the Navy. If, therefore, they had hesitated to proceed with these ships, they must have abandoned altogether the building of the ships
 428 Vanguard; "On all occasions, her working was admirable, and surpassed our fullest expectations; and I have no doubt that she will prove herself to possess every good quality, and that she is a perfect man-of-war." Caledonia "The  Vanguard Vanguard, Queen "I have called for the Reports of the qualities of the several ships, and hope to have them for enclosure in this letter. In the mean time, I may say, that so far as my own observations went, no one of the ships, except the  Vanguard, Queen, Queen Calcutta, "With respect to the comparison between this ship and the  Queen, Queen; 429 Queen. Queen, Queen Albion Cruiser, 430 "When the  Gorgon Cyclops Rattler Rattler 431 Rattler Daring,
 Mr. Hodgson Hinde  did not intend to offer any opposition to one part of the Motion of which the hon. Gentleman had given notice, but, if he understood the right hon. Gentleman rightly, he only intended to press that part of his Motion which referred to the construction of a railway, and to that he entertained the most serious objection. He was perfectly confident that if the Government, or if the hon. Gentleman himself was aware of the real nature of the Bill for which he applied, and of the evils which it was calculated to inflict, it would not be persevered in. He laid a statement before the Board of Trade on the subject; and he trusted the hon. Gentleman, the Secretary of that body, would pay attention to what he now had to observe. It was well known in that House, that the Commissioners of Greenwich Hospital were possessed of considerable property in mines and other estates. On one of these estates in the North of England, an extensive coal field had been let, a number of years ago, to some individuals who had worked the collieries without, he believed, much remuneration to themselves. They now thought that if they could obtain a Bill permitting them to make a railroad between their coal
 443
 Mr. Hodgson  said he would much prefer seeing the Bill withdrawn at once, as he had no doubt it would be thrown out on the second reading. Two public bodies had been in communication with him on the subject—namely, the Corporation of Berwick and the Harbour Commissioners of the same town, and both expressed themselves decidedly opposed to the Bill.
 Mr. Collett  complained that the original Notice of Motion was for a Bill to enable the lessees to make a railroad; it was now proposed that the Commissioners of Greenwich Hospital should make it. He should like to know which was really intended.
 Admiral Bowles  wished to observe, in reply to the charge of the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster, that if he did not find a gale of wind it was no fault of his, and that to go in search of one was not the object with which he went out. His duty was to try all ships under his charge, and not to run the risk of damaging them to the extent, perhaps, of several thousand pounds, without any earthly benefit. He could not but express his surprise, at hearing sailors, and especially the hon. and gallant Member for Marylebone, talk as they did of the  Albion, Caledonia 424 Columbine, l. l. Pantaloon,
 Mr. C. Hope  replied. He said he did not state that there would be no opposition to the Bill; but that there would be no material opposition to it up to a certain time. During last year, when it was intended to bring the Bill forward, the Town Council of Berwick did not express any intention of opposing it.
 Mr. C. Hope  had no particular objection to the production of the correspondence, but wished to put the House in possession of the general facts of the case. In the year 1843, Dr. Rolph, who was then in England, on business relating to the North American Association, with which the Doctor was connected, and which had since become bankrupt, was engaged by the Governor of Trinidad, at a salary of 200 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. C. Hope  moved for leave to bring in a Bill for enabling the Commissioners of Greenwich Hospital to grant leases of coal and minerals for forty-two years, and for making a railway or tram-
 442
 Captain Harris  said, that the difference of opinion on the subject of naval architecture was not confined to naval men, but seemed also to have extended to the editors of newspapers. He thought that the gallant Admiral could not do better than enable those editors to form their opinions of the respective merits of those vessels by providing them with berths in the next experimental squadron. The editor of the  Times Daring. Morning Chronicle Mutine, Punch Pantaloon. 432 Columbine, Pique Winchester. Pique, Winchester Winchester Pique. Carysfort, Belvidera, 433
 Captain Rous  said, the Navy, the Government, and the country, were indebted to the gallant Officer who had brought the subject forward. But he also considered the country indebted to those who had abolished the Navy Board; and as to the Naval School of Science—if its efficacy were to be estimated by a model he had
 415 l. Waterwitch Waterwitch 416 Great Britain, 417 Flying Fish, Snake, Flying Fish Queen Queen Formidable Queen, 418 Queen 419 Pique
 Lord G. Somerset  moved the Order of the day for a Committee on the Companies Clauses Consolidation Bill.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, the hon. Members had had sufficient notice, as he had on the previous night explained the course he meant to take. It was most important that these measures should pass speedily, or they could not be carried at all during the present Session. He trusted, therefore, that the hon. Member would consent to their passing this evening through Committee, and when the Report was brought up on Wednesday next, he (Lord G. Somerset) would be happy to give every opportunity for explanation and amendment. The Clauses embraced no new principles. They were nearly all Clauses taken from other Bills, some of them modified and simplified, and the only thing new in the Bill immediately before them was the Arbitration Clause, which allowed parties, in cases up to a certain quantity of land, to decide by Arbitration instead of going before a Jury. The noble Lord concluded by reiterating his disposition, by private communication or otherwise, to do everything in his power to meet the views of the hon. Member for Cockermouth, but he hoped the hon. Gentleman would consent to go into Committee to-night.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, the first point referred to by the hon. Member had already engaged his attention, and he should endeavour to embody the suggestion in the Bills.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that question had not escaped his attention. His own opinion was that it should be compulsory on railway companies to adopt them as model Bills. But this was considered by others to be too hazardous an experiment at first; and, therefore, what he proposed to do was, that the Bills should be formed, and then that by a Standing Order of the House, the Committees on Private Bills should report to the House whether these Bills had been incorporated by the companies or not.
 Lord G. Somerset  had every confidence in the general outline of the Bills, as he had no doubt that if they were once passed by the House, ninety-nine out of every hundred Railway Companies would be but too happy to incorporate these Clauses into their Bills. But if it should be the opinion of the House that these Bills ought to be made compulsory, he should not be very sorry; though, for the reasons he had given, he did not think proper to recommend it in the present instance.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, if the Bills were sent to a Select Committee, it was clear they would be of no use during the present Session. It was, therefore, for the House to determine whether they would take the Bills, with such emendations as might be suggested in the House, without sending them to a Committee up stairs, or whether they would give them up for the present Session. It appeared to him that there was something like a contradiction in the opinions of the gentlemen opposite; one Member contending that the Bills ought to be made compulsory, and another arguing that the Clauses were so imperfect that they ought not to be passed at all.
 Lord G. Somerset  said that they had not; but they had been submitted to a very competent Officer of this House. He saw that it was impossible in the present feeling of Gentlemen opposite, of which he did not complain, to pass the Bills through Committee to-night. How far it might be in his power afterwards to render them compulsory, he could not at present say. For himself, as he had said, he was rather of opinion they ought to be compulsory. He thought, therefore, it would be the most judicious course to move that the Chairman report progress; and by Monday next, if not sooner, he would inform the House whether he would render the Bills compulsory or not.
 Mr. Hawes  could not conceive a course more liable to objection than this. If the Government really had confidence in their own Bills, they ought to render them compulsory; but the course which was proposed to be taken showed that the noble Lord had no confidence in the measures he was himself recommending.
 Mr. Hawes  wished to know how it was proposed that these Acts were to be made to apply to Private Bills—whether they were to be rendered compulsory or not?
 The Speaker  said after the Bill should be read a first time, it should be referred to the Committee on Private Bills. If all the Standing Orders were complied with, the Bill would then be proceeded with in the same manner as any other private Bill, and it should afterwards pass through
 444
 The Speaker  said, he considered the proper course to take in the present instance was to apply for leave to bring in the Bill. The Bill was brought in for the improvement of private property, and must necessarily, under the peculiar circumstances, be applied for by Motion, and not by Petition. After the Bill was, however, brought in, and read a first time, it would in all future stages be treated as any other Private Bills.
 Mr. C. Wood  begged to explain that he did not wish to pervert the meaning of what any hon. Member said, or to find fault with any particular class of vessels. It was quite consistent with the argument he had used that these vessels alluded to should have a good character.
 Mr. C. Wood  was sorry that the hon. and gallant Officer who had just sat down thought he had any reason to complain of the Board of Admiralty with which he (Mr. C. Wood) had been connected. He
 420 C. Napier: C. Napier: C. Napier: C. Napier: 421 Pique, Queen; Queen Queen Royal Frederick Queen. Albion: 422 Thunderer Thunderer l., Vanguard l. Collingwood l. l. Collingwood Thunderer Rodney, l., l. 423
 Mr. Aglionby  thought the whole Bills should be referred to a Select Committee upstairs, consisting chiefly of Gentlemen of the legal profession. If that were done, he was sure many of the Clauses would be considerably modified; as an example, he might instance the 41st Clause in the second Bill, which required that where a railway crosses a public footpath a convenient ascent and descent should be founded by the railway company for the accommodation of the public in crossing the railroad by this footpath. He was aware that this
 447
 Mr. Aglionby  said, one of his objections to these Bills was that the railway companies were not compelled to adopt these Bills, but they had power to adopt one or other, or parts of all, without taking any one complete. He also objected to each of the Bills referring to Clauses contained in the other Bills, and thought that, even at the risk of repetition, each Bill ought to be made complete in itself, by containing all the Clauses which it enacted.
 Mr. Aglionby  hoped the noble Lord would not press the Committee to-night. There were several Clauses requiring explanation, and which could not be satisfactorily disposed of so hastily. Many
 446
 Mr. Brotherton  said, the opposition to the Bill appeared to him to be the most extraordinary he had ever witnessed. In fact, the nature of the opposition convinced him that the Bill ought to be introduced, as one of the arguments against it was, that certain large coal fields had been worked for a considerable time at a loss, and that the proposed railway would, if completed, enable the parties to bring their coals to a better market.
 Mr. Hume  repeated, that he could not see why a distinction should be made.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know, if there was any exception in railway matters in favour of public bodies, or whether the rule applicable to Private Bills did not include cases such as the present. He could not understand under what Rules of the House the present Motion was brought forward.
 Mr. Hume  seconded the Motion, as he was anxious to see a searching inquiry into this subject instituted. It was a question not new to the House. He thought a great responsibility attached to the right hon. Baronet the present Secretary of State for the Home Department, for the course which he took in the year 1832, when First Lord of the Admiralty, and for the changes which he had then made. He would not, on this occasion, enter into details, but the changes which the right hon. Baronet at that period made, were such as challenged inquiry; and the question could not be satisfactorily settled until that inquiry took place; and in order to embrace the period from which those changes were made, he could have wished that his hon. and gallant Friend (Sir C. Napier) had fixed the year 1832, instead of 1835, as the time since which he was desirous to ascertain the appropriation of the public money in the construction of ships for the British Navy. On the 29th of June, 1832, when he, in a Committee of Supply, challenged the policy of the changes which the right hon. Baronet had made by appointing Captain Symonds to be Surveyor of the Navy, when pupils who had been educated at the School of Naval Architecture at a considerable expense, were passed over, the right hon. Baronet made use of an expression which had often been quoted, and which had excited a great deal of feeling among a large class of persons. The right hon. Baronet said—
 "That he had acted in accordance with the best naval advice, and that he was firmly
 407 408 409
 Mr. Forster  expressed his entire concurrence in the observations that had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had last addressed the House. He was quite sure if the Bill had been investigated previously it would never have been introduced. He would wish to know whether, if referred to a Committee, the Bill would come under the investigation of the General Committee, or under a distinct Committee.
 Mr. Forster  was perfectly satisfied that after the House had investigated the matter they would find that all the observations made by his hon. Friend opposite (Mr. Hinde) were perfectly correct. He could not understand why a public body, like the Commissioners of Greenwich Hospital, should interfere to force a compulsory railway through private property. He would feel it to be his duty to oppose the second reading of the Bill, unless, indeed, he heard much stronger reasons advanced in favour of it than any which had been given to them that night.
 Mr. Thornely  moved for a copy of the correspondence between Dr. Rolph and the Co-
 445
 Mr. Wakley  thought that these Bills ought to be referred to the consideration of a Select Committee up stairs. Consi-
 448
 Mr. Wakley  said, that hon. Members on both sides of the House had expressed their gratitude to his hon. and gallant Friend for bringing forward this Motion, which entitled him to the gratitude of that House and of the country. He was quite certain that the labours of the hon. and gallant Commodore on that, as well as on other occasions, had eminently entitled him to the gratitude of the country, which, beyond a doubt, he would carry with him. The country would be deeply grateful to his hon. and gallant Friend for bringing forward this subject. True, it was not the first time that it had been before that House; but the discussions had formerly been conducted in such a manner that no good had resulted from them, and out of doors it was thought that, however they might fight when they were in earnest, in that House all was "sham fighting." It was time now that a subject of this magnitude should be taken up seriously; it was one on which the public felt the greatest interest, for the naval service was the loved, the favourite, the honoured service of this country, and no sum of money
 434 435 436 Cries of Renewed Laughter. 437
 Mr. Wakley  wished to know if the Law Officers of the Crown had been consulted in the framing of these Bills?
 Sir Charles Napier  had repeatedly heard of such and such persons being described as good debaters, but he had never heard a good debater who had indulged in perverting language. The hon. Member for Halifax had done so with regard to him. The hon. Member had said, that he had taken down his words. The hon. Member had asserted, that he (Sir C. Napier) had Condemned all the ships built by the present Surveyor of the Navy, except the last class of three-deckers and the 18-gun brigs. Now he distinctly denied that he had said anything of the kind. He had said that all the three-deckers—and he excluded the 98's—were good. That all the 74's were good, except the "Forty Thieves." He had said that the 50's, or two-deckers, were useless, and that the 32 and the 28-gun frigates were good for nothing. He also said, that the 28-gun donkeys were good for nothing, and that the 10-gun brigs were good for nothing. He was astonished that the hon. Member for Halifax should presume to put words into his mouth which he declared upon his honour he did not use. The hon. Gentleman stated, that he had praised the 16-gun brigs, and the 56-gun frigates, the  Vanguard Vernon; Vanguard, 438 Rodney, l. l. Rodney l. Queen Albion, Queen 439 l.,
 Sir Charles Napier  continued to say, that the same operation which had been performed on the  Queen 440 Albion
 Sir C. Napier  rose, pursuant to notice, to move for a Select Committee, to inquire into the manner in which the money voted since the year 1835 for the construction of ships has been expended; and if the ships constructed are an improvement of the old system. He begged to assure the House that his only motive in bringing forward this Motion was to ascertain whether the reports spread as to the ships lately built were true or false. If true, the sooner the present system was put an end to the better. If false, the reputation of the officers engaged in constructing them required that it should be publicly known that no blame attached to them. He knew it might be said (and, in fact, it was said) that this was no business of his; that the question should be left for settlement to the proper powers. He supposed by that expression was meant the Admiralty. The building of ships had been left to them for a considerable time, and it would be seen that they had committed the greatest errors and blunders—greater, he believed, than had taken place in any other department. He had neither a political nor a party view in the Motion which he submitted, his sole object was the well-being of the Navy, and the expenditure of the finances of the country in the most judicious manner. In the observations which he should make, he should endeavour to state the facts with the justness, fairness, and impartiality becoming a British seaman and officer, and such alone as an independent Member, anxious for the proper disbursement of the
 384 Blenheim, Ocean, Camperdown, Prince Regent Impregnable Tonnant, Canopus, Sanspareil. Sanspareil 385 Blazer, Bruiser, Barker, 386 Euryalus, Caledonia, Sapphire, Challenger, Tyne, Columbine, Satellite, Wolf, Sapphire, Challenger Tyne Columbine,
 Sir George Cockburn  confessed that, in respect to all which the hon. and gallant Commodore (Sir C. Napier) had said relating to naval affairs, so far back as 1806, he was scarcely able to follow him. At that time he was at sea carrying on the war against France, and was not acquainted with the circumstances to which his hon. and gallant Friend had alluded. He could only say that that system, which was not perfect in 1806, might be in a very improved state now. It was very probable that the vessels built during the war were bad; but it might be supposed, from the statement of his hon. and gallant Friend, that those vessels were cut down at once into frigates; but the fact was other-
 410 Queen Formidable Queen. Howe, Rodney, Vanguard, 411 Albion Albion Queen, Caledonia, St. Vincent, Queen Albion Queen, St. Vincent, Albion, Rodney, Vanguard, Superb, Canopus, 412 Espiegle Flying Fish, Daring Queen, Albion, 413 414 Terrible, sine qua non
 Sir George Cockburn  said, it was considered by the Admiralty wrong for any vessels to proceed quicker than eight knots an hour during the night while navigating the North Sea, as it was generally covered with colliers, and they had accordingly issued orders to that effect.
 Captain Pechell  said, that the late Secretary of the Admiralty had acted most unfairly towards his hon. and gallant Friend, by endeavouring to put a misconstruction upon the views which he had expressed to the House. If he understood the object of his hon. and gallant Friend, it was this—he complained that the Board of Admiralty had been going on in the construction of vessels, without giving them a sufficient trial; that immediately upon being satisfied with one particular vessel, they, without sufficient experience, laid down half-a-dozen of the same description. If it was attempted to be shown that the present Surveyor of the Navy had involved the country in unnecessary expense, and incumbered the service with improper ships, then he must differ from his hon. Friends, for he was of the contrary opinion, believing as he did, that no person deserved more credit than the present Surveyor of the Navy. He was very happy to find that the gallant Admiral oppo-
 425 Queen, Rattler, George Cockburn: 426 Rattler, 427
 Mr. Jervis  said, the great evil of which they had at present to complain was, that one railway company modelled their Bill upon that of some preceding company, with the alteration of certain words, which appeared at first to be unimportant, but which affected the whole legal bearing of the clauses. He, therefore, agreed with the noble Lord that it was of great importance that model clauses should be framed, not by a Select Committee of the House, which he thought was the most unfit tribunal that could be selected; but that they should be settled on the responsibility of Government, with the advice and concurrence of their law officers, and that then they should be applicable to all railways. The noble Lord said there was a difficulty in the way of making these Bills compulsory, but he did not say wherein the difficulty lay. He was sure it did not lie on the part of the public. Take the case of landowners for example. If there was one clear uniform model Bill
 449
 Mr. Collett  asked at what period it was intended that the changes should come into operation?
 Mr. Bell  thanked the right hon. Baronet for the abolition of the duty on the export of coal. He would remind the right hon. Baronet, in reply to his statement about the combination of coal-owners, that since the year 1840 the import of coals into the port of London had increased from 1,600,000 tons to 2,600,000, and that the price had fallen from 29 s. s.
 Mr. Hodgson Hinde  expressed his approval of the general principles which the right hon. Baronet had laid down; he wished, however, to draw the right on. Baronet's attention to the fact, that the stocks in hand of the various articles, the duty upon which would be affected by the Budget, would be depreciated to a considerable extent by the proposed alterations, and be thought the right hon. Baronet should allow a drawback of the duty upon them.
 Lord Duncan  regretted that the right hon. Baronet had contrasted the window tax with the duties on glass. He thought the window tax had claims quite as great for abolition as the auction duty, on the ground of particular exemptions.
 Mr. Stafford O'Brien  rose merely for the purpose of saying that he was not aware of manifesting any of that feeling of disappointment to which the noble Lord had alluded. The object of the praises of the Budget by hon. Gentlemen opposite seemed to be, to scare the interest to which he belonged, and to set it against the Government of the right hon. Baronet. He did not intend to give any opinion as to the operation of the proposed reductions, but he did not believe that the right hon. Baronet intended to exclude the agricultural interest from a share in the benefits which would result from the reduction of the sugar duties and the removal of the glass and auction duties.
 Mr. Liddell  could not help taking the earliest opportunity of thanking the right hon. Baronet for the abolition of the duty on glass and upon the export of coal. He should not, however, have presumed to occupy the attention of the House for one moment, if it had not been for an observation which had fallen from the right hon. Baronet as to the combination in the coal trade, and which was received with considerable sensation in that House. He must admit, that, although much evidence had been given, on various occasions, upon this subject, by most competent parties, before Committees of that House, a variety of misrepresentations still appealed to remain. He should dispose of the subject in one single sentence, which was, that he wished those misrepresentations to be entirely cleared away; and he could only state that, if any hon. Member thought proper to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the subject of the alleged combination of the coal trade, he should be happy to support such a proposition.
 Lord John Manners  said, that as he understood the principle on which the right hon. Baronet proceeded, it was that taxes should be levied as far as possible on those able to pay them, and that taxes should be removes from those least able to bear them. He fully agreed in this principle, and he trusted that it would be success-
 510
 Lord John Russell : I am glad that the right hon. Baronet has attended to the request I made on a former day, that he would not call upon the House at once to vote upon this question. It is due to the importance of the subject, that Members should not be required to pronounce an immediate opinion. When the right hon. Baronet urges that various interests may be injured by delay, I may remark for myself, that I will not ask for a day's postponement beyond the period he has himself fixed. I shall be ready to proceed with the debate on Monday next. The right hon. Baronet must expect, however, that I shall then take a view of the whole proposal, and not merely of the special subject immediately under consideration in the Resolution proposed. I say this, because with reference to the Sugar Duties,
 498
 Lord John Russell  wished to have some explanation from the right hon. Baronet as to the suggestion made by his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford. As the right hon. Baronet did not say that he meant in any way to modify the Income Tax, he presumed it was to be inferred that it was to be proposed as it now was.
 Mr. C. Buller  remarked that there was a great difference between an income derived from property, and a professional income—the latter was not either a permanent or a life interest, but a fluctuating interest. The distinction, therefore, which the right hon. Baronet alluded to between a life and a permanent interest was a very different thing from the gains of a profession. He was not going to follow the example of several hon. Members near him, and praise the Budget as they had done. He confessed that he did not see so much to admire, as he believed that the keeping on the Income Tax did away with much of the benefit which otherwise might have been derived from it. He thought that the country should understand and consider what was the purport of the Budget. The right hon. Baronet proposed that the Property Tax should be granted for three or five years—for there was some doubt as to his phraseology—as he did when he proposed the present Income Tax. He then made a promise that such would be the reduction in the cost of articles of consumption under his new Tariff, that no one would feel the Income Tax; but the experience of the country did not warrant the repetition of such a promise. But whatever were the merits of other parts of the Budget, it completely put an end to all question as to the removal of the Income Tax at the end of three years. The right hon. Baronet, in his present Budget, proposed permanently to get rid of the whole of the surplus revenue; as he did not reduce or modify, but intended to get rid altogether of most of the taxes he had dealt with. Certainly there was an exception with regard to the Sugar Duties; but every other tax the right hon. Gentleman meddled with, he proposed entirely to sweep off. The right hon. Gentleman, there-
 509
 Colonel Sibthorp  knew it was totally impossible to please all parties. He regretted that the right hon. Baronet had not proposed among his reductions one—a reduction of the duty on Fire Insurances. The hardship of this tax was, that it interfered with insurances entered into from prudential considerations, which ought rather to be encouraged. There was another point on which he ventured to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet; it was regarding the Post Horse Duties. When they looked at the increased difficulties of post-masters from railway competition, and at the immense sums paid in duty by poor coach proprietors, he thought that some; equivalent tax ought to be put on the railway system, which had ruined so many coach masters. He also regretted that there had been no remission of the Income Tax to farmers.
 Mr. Turner  hoped that some alteration would be made n the duty upon foreign copper ore during the Session.
 Mr. Aglionby  did not anticipate that the country would be taken by surprise at the proposal to renew the Property Tax, after the notices which had already been given on the subject. But even if the Property Tax was to be continued, much had been done to relieve the productive industry of the country in other respects. If the Property Tax was modified, much objection to its continuance would be removed. It would lead to further advance in the course taken by the right hon. Baronet that night. He conceived that the present Budget was the greatest boon to the country that had been proposed since he had had a seat in that House, and it would confer greater benefits on the labouring classes than any that had taken place for years. He wished, however, on that occasion, to point out a matter with respect to which he had heard great complaints. He could not speak from practical knowledge of the subject, but he was assured that the present arrangement was productive of great hardship. He alluded to the duties on tea. He understood that there was an uniform tax on all teas; and that the same duty was levied on the low-priced teas drank by the poorer classes, and on the teas of high qualities consumed by the higher classes. He did not know whether he was right in the view which he had taken of this point, but it had been mentioned to him as a great hardship. As he believed that the plan and object of the hon. Gentleman was to confer the greatest possible benefit on the poorer classes of this country, he was sure that if the right hon. Gentleman found the duties on tea press so unequally and heavily on those classes, that he would take into his consideration the propriety of reducing the duty on teas of lower quality. He should be glad to hear
 507
 Mr. Warburton  remarked that the objection of his hon. and learned Friend to the present proposal with respect to the Income Tax, was, that it would render it a permanent tax. Now, he considered the rendering such a tax a permanent tax, divested it of most of its objections. He was quite satisfied that if the tax were made permanent, and if hon. Members would calmly enter into an examination of the subject, they would see that the whole inequality of its operation arose from its being only temporary. A temporary tax had every characteristic of inequality, but when it was made a permanent tax, it was divested of all inequality. He knew that this was an unpopular doctrine to hold, therefore it was difficult to get parties to listen calmly to the subject, or to investigate the principles to which he adverted. With respect to the Budget, with the exception of the part connected with the sugar duties, where the whole advantage of the reduction would be given to the sugar growers instead of the country at large, all parts of it were most excellent, and deserved the greatest praise. He saw however, that the reduction of the duty on sugar would open the eyes of the people to the evils of protection, and he hoped at no distant period to see the sugar tax put on a right footing.
 Mr. Curteis  thought it would be taking the country by surprise, if the right hon.
 505
 Dr. Bowring  wished the Property Tax could be made a permanent tax. He had heard, with regret, the intention of the Government to augment the Naval Force, which, he presumed, might be attributed to a similar step having been taken by a neighbouring Power, the increase of whose navy must be looked at with anxiety by foreign countries.
 Dr. Bowring,  seeing the right hon. Baronet in his place, would put the question of which he had given notice on a former evening, in reference to the Commercial Treaty with the Ottoman Empire. When that commercial Treaty was entered into with the Porte duties had been imposed on the import and export of goods by Her Britannic Majesty's subjects, throughout the Ottoman Empire, and the equivalent which was given them was the abolition of the monopolies of goods which left open the interior of the Turkish Empire. Under that Treaty British merchants were empowered to import at 3 l. ad valorem. l.
 Dr. Bowring  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet if it was his intention to place the Papers on this subject before the House?
 Mr. Roebuck  observed, that the hon. Member for Sheffield had stated that if the Property Tax was to be permanent, it ought to be remodelled. His hon. Friend should now look upon it as a permanent tax, as he might depend upon it that, for the rest of his life, he would not see it taken off.
 Mr. Roebuck,  while he expressed his hearty concurrence in the great principles laid down by the right hon. Baronet, and gave him the full credit to which he was entitled for the choice of the particular objects I which he had made for relaxation from taxation; and, believing, also, that in his choice he had been directed entirely by considerations of the public good, and had not been merely influenced by the powers that be, yet there was one great error in the principle of the Budget which the right hon. Baronet had brought forward. It was this: while he imposed certain obligations and imposts on the community, he took off, on the other hand, an exact equivalent; therefore the object was this, that from those imposts he took off he supposed great mischiefs arose to the community; and it was therefore the right hon. Baronet's duty clearly to make out that in the impost he fixed on the community he did not impose one equally unjust. Now, the source of the extra revenue was the Income Tax—a shifting phrase. He remarked that the right hon. Baronet had sometimes used
 503
 Mr. Hume  entirely agreed with the sentiments expressed by the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland as to the combination between the coal-owners. Having been the Chairman of the Committee upon
 501
 Mr. Wakley  was not disposed to complain. He could not say one word at present in condemnation of the Income or Property Tax, or with reference to the Sugar Duties. Representing more than a quarter of a million of people, he could not refrain from expressing his extreme satisfaction at the character of every proposal the right hon. Baronet had made. It was true, the labouring classes were not represented in that House; but he was bound to say, in honour of the Prime Minister, that they were not forgotten in his Budget. Almost every proposal the right hon. Baronet had submitted to the House had a direct tendency to improve their condition—to give them more value for their labour—to promote industry, and by doing that he rendered to them and to the nation at large the greatest possible service which could be rendered by any Government. He was too much pleased by the proposals of the right hon. Baronet to say one word
 504
 Mr. W. Williams  wished to know whether the right hon. Baronet meant to make any allowance for stocks on hand?
 Sir Charles Napier  wished to know whether the proposed increased amount to be voted in the Navy Estimates, was to be devoted entirely to steam ships. He would put it to the right hon. Baronet, that before he expended any money for this purpose, he should institute a full and proper inquiry into the present state of our Steam Navy. If this was not done, he should feel it to be his duty to oppose any such increased expenditure, as it would be only throwing money away.
 Sir C. Napier  was sure that the right hon. Baronet was as anxious as he was himself that this country should have as effective a steam force as possible. All that he asked was to have an investigation as to the present Steam Ships in the Navy, so that they might see whether they had or had not been proceeding on right and sound principles. It was not from any political motive that he pressed this on the Government, but he considered it was absolute folly to throw hundreds of thousands of pounds away in building ships which were useless. He conceived that he was justified from his past experience to press the matter on the attention of the Government; and all that he asked was, that a Commission of competent persons should be appointed before they made a further expenditure, to see whether they were going on the right or the wrong road.
 Mr. Ward  agreed with the hon. Member for Rye that this Budget would take the country by surprise, as few would expect such a large and comprehensive measure of finance to be brought forward as that which had been introduced that night by the right hon. Baronet. He did not intend to attempt to add to the eulogy which had been passed on the statement of the right hon. Baronet; but he felt bound to state that he rejoiced that measures founded on such sound principles of policy were to be brought forward; and that the Government had taken such a sound view of the best interests of the country, and proposed to lay the seeds of a most extended prosperity. Therefore, when the measures were criticised on that side of the House, he could bear his testimony to their excellence. Of course, as regarded the Sugar Duties, there would be a difference of opinion; and he hoped that if such a measure cm this subject as was stated by the right hon. Baronet should be pressed, that
 506
 Sir R. Inglis  hoped that the alteration in the plan of the Income Tax which he had formerly advocated, might be adopted, namely, that its operation might commence only on incomes which exceed 150 l. l. l. l.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that he did not propose to allow drawbacks upon any article; the duty upon glass, however, would not be remitted immediately.
 Sir R. Peel  was sure that, on reflection, the hon. Gentleman would be satisfied that great inconvenience would arise from a person in his situation expressing an opinion with respect to a tax with which he did not intend to deal, on an occasion like the present, as it must derange all commercial transactions connected with the article in question. He was satisfied that the safest course, if he did not wish to impede commercial enterprise, was not to say anything on the subject. He must also observe, that he could not conceive how the hon. Member for Rye, or the country, could be taken by surprise by the discussion on the proposed renewal of the Income Tax coming on on Monday. The hon. Member, on the second reading of the Bill, would if he chose, be able to oppose it, and take the sense of the House on the principle of the measure, as well as on Monday next. There would be ample opportunities for those who disapproved of the plan of the Government to express their opinions. As for the country being taken by surprise, surely the hon. Member must have seen, from the expressions in the Queen's Speech, that the inference must be drawn that it was the intention of the Government to propose the renewal of the Property Tax.
 Sir Robert Peel  replied, that he intended to propose the simple renewal of the Tax as it stood. He thought there was a very essential difference between proposing to enact this Tax permanently, and only for a particular period. He believed, that if it were renewed for three years, that no man at the end of that period who paid it would find that he had sustained any loss, in consequence of the reductions that would take place in other respects. He would not enter into a discussion as to distinc-
 508
 Sir R. Peel  did not.
 Sir R. Peel  meant the duties to be repealed on the earliest possible day, with the exception of glass: there were reasons why the repeal of that duty should be postponed for two or three months. He wished the repeal of the cotton duties to be immediate, and he might say the same of the duties on articles of import.
 Sir R. Peel  said, when the negociation was concluded he should have no objection to do so.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, Mr. Greene, although, Sir, I have had considerable experience in the discharge of official duties, and although I have frequently had occasion to address this House on matters of great public concern, yet I cannot approach the discussion of that subject which I am now called upon to discuss without great anxiety, and without a deep consciousness how imperfect and inadequate will be the explanation which I shall be enabled to give. But, Sir, though I rise under some disadvantage, from the period of the year at which this statement will be made, yet, after the announcement contained in the Speech from the Throne, that Her Majesty's Government meant to propose a continuance of the Income Tax for a further limited period, we felt that we had no alternative—whatever might be the precedents, and whatever might be the ordinary course as to financial statements — but at the earliest day to submit to the House and the country the general views of Her Majesty's Government with respect to our financial position and our future commercial policy. Sir, it will be my duty to present to the House a general view of the present, financial position of the country; to make an estimate of the probable Revenue; and to discuss the great question—whether it be consistent with the public interest that the present amount of expenditure should be retained, or whether it be not fitting that there should be, in respect of some important branches of the Public Service, an increased vote beyond the expenditure of preceding years. If the House should entertain that proposition for the reasons which I shall adduce, it will then be incumbent on me to propose for the consideration of Parliament whether it be fisting that that increased expenditure shall be made from the ordinary sources of Revenue, or whether it be more advisable that that Tax imposed in the year 1842 on Property and Income shall be continued for a further limited period, for the double purpose of providing efficiently for the exigencies of the Public Service, and for enabling Parliament to reduce and repeal other taxes bearing more immediately on
 456 l. l. l. l. l. 457 l. l. l. l., l. l., l. l. l. l. l., l. l., l., l., l. l., 458 l. l. l., l. l. l. 459 l. l. l. l. l. l. l.; 460 l. l.; l., l., l.; l. l. l. l.; l., l. l. l.; l. l., l. l,; l. l. l., l., 461 l., l., l. 462 l. l. l. l. l., l. l. 463 464 465 466 467 l., 468 469 l. 470 l. l. l., l., l. l., l., l., l., l., l. l. l. l., l., 471 472 l. l.; l., l., l. l., l. l.; l. 473 474 s. d. Member s., s., s. d., s. d. 475 s. d., s. d., s. s. d. s. d., s. d. Member: s. d. s. d., s. d., s., s. d., s. d. s. d. 476 s. s. d., s. s. d. d., 477 d. s. l. s d. l. s. d., l. s., l. l. l. l. 478 l. Member: l., l. 479 Member: l. l. 480 481 482 l. 483 Labouchere Labouchere: l. Labouchere: l. d. 484 d. d. d., d. 485 l. primâ facie primâ facie 486 487 l., l. l., l. l. l. l. 488 l. l.; l., l. l., l. l. l. l. Collett: 489 s. d. d. l.; l. 490 Courier de l'Europe, 491 492 493 l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. 494 l., l. l. l. l. l. 495 496 497
 Sir Robert Peel  again rose, and said that he wished the Chairman to report progress, and did not mean to ask the House to come to a vote to-night. He trusted, however, that hon. Members would see the great importance, for the sake of many branches of trade and commerce, to proceed at once to the consideration of the repeal of taxation. Delay would materially affect many branches of industry, and he hoped therefore that the House would be prepared on Monday to pronounce an opinion, not on the details, but upon the general outline of the plan. This course would not preclude the House from discussing and deciding upon the various parts of the proposal hereafter.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, the Government were not satisfied with the manner in which the Commercial Treaty had been carried into execution. There were subjects of some countries which were entiled to privileges that British subjects did not possess, and with which we could not meddle, although there was an article in the Treaty which provided that subjects of Her Majesty in the Turkish Empire should be upon the footing of the most favoured nations. There were now pending negociations upon this subject by the Porte and the British Minister, and, as of course, this was a step towards a better understanding upon the subject of these duties with the Porte, the hon. Member would be, perhaps, gratified to learn, that the subject of these duties had not been overlooked by the British Government.
 Sir R. Peel  stated, that the addition to the Naval Estimates for that branch of the public service, and the ordnance connected with it, would be about 960,000 l.
 Lord Clements  commended the reduction of duty upon staves, and hoped there would be some further reduction of the duty on timber.
 Viscount Howick  said, that he entirely agreed with his hon. Friend who had just sat down, in thanking the Government for the abolition of the duty on the export of coals; and he could not help expressing a hope that his hon. Friend was
 499 500
 Mr. Gladstone  did not intend to enter into the question upon which this discussion commenced, namely, an examination or an analysis of the Railway Board as to the opinion of its Members. But there were two other matters introduced, upon which he wished to say a few words. The hon. and learned Member for Winchester expressed a strong opinion that if the judgments of the Board were to carry any weight, their proceedings must be public. Now, he (Mr. Gladstone) ventured to state most strongly to the House, that there was no choice between having their proceedings not public, and having no Railway Board at all. There was no alternative. If the House was of opinion that they should establish public proceedings before a Board of that nature, they must have regular and formal examinations of witnesses—the parties, counsel, and agents, must be constantly present—they must have regular statements and replies—they must have all that delay and expense which the very Gentlemen who complained of the want of publicity were parties to expose before that House. With regard to the composition of the Board, the right hon. Gentleman opposite was the first person from whom he had heard any censure, and far less such severe censure as that of the right hon. Gentleman. It was easy to find fault with its constitution, or any plan that might be adopted under the circumstances; but if he looked to the alternative to which the right hon. Gentleman pointed, in the remarks addressed to the House, he was not at all shaken in his conviction that the course taken in the appointment of the Board was the best course of which the circumstances would admit. The right hon. Gentleman said, that if there was to be a Board at all, he would have it constituted of Privy Councillors. Now, he would ask the House, how was it possible to constitute the Board of Privy Councillors, the Members of which should have patiently devoted themselves from morning till night, for the space of four or five months, to receive deputations, to examine papers, and form conclusions connected with 240 railways? Perhaps it might be the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman that such things were possible. In his (Mr. Gladstone's) opinion, it was totally visionary; and he was astonished to hear such a plan recommended by any person; but particularly
 536 537 538
 Mr. Bernal  had listened with great attention to the right hon. Gentleman, and was happy to hear that he was ready, as a gladiator, to undertake the defence of the Board of Trade. The difficulty the House saw regarding this question seemed to evince the necessity of removing the first steps of private business from the control of this House. This was not a popular view of the question; but they were approaching an era in civilization, unlike any that had been seen before, and a whole mass of private business poured in on them, for which they were not provided. They had sketched out an imperfect and hasty plan, for trusting some of it to the Committee of the Board of Trade, and what had been the result? Why that respectable Gentlemen were indirectly—he might almost say directly—accused of not discharging their duties candidly and honestly. Those Gentlemen were placed in an odious position; they were exposed to every random shot fired at them by speculators, or by those who were not speculators. He for one would not consent to stand in such a position, and would rather give up the post of Secretary or President of the Committee, than encounter the odium it produced. It was said there must be some tribunal; but it could not be expected that hon. Members, who were occupied by public business, could give up many hours every day to attend to railway schemes in which they had no local or personal interest whatever. What, then, was to be done? Let the Government boldly sketch out the plan of some open tribunal, out of doors, where the merits of these railway schemes could be discussed, and where there were agents and counsel in attendance—for he did not mince the matter; and he was sure that the decisions of such a body would give more satisfaction than the decisions of that House. The present Committee had not sufficient time to attend to the business thrown upon it—all was hurry and confusion, and so great was the pressure to get ready the plans and documents for the last day on which they could be given in, that several working engineers lost their health, and some their lives, from the excessive labour; they would never exonerate the House from suspicion of self-interest till they removed the control of its
 539
 Mr. Gladstone  said, he had been misunderstood by the hon. Gentleman on an important point. He had stated at the commencement of his observations, that he hoped the Government never would have occasion to interfere in that House, with respect to Private Bills, in the same manner as they did with respect to Public Bills; and he afterwards said that he, as the organ of the Board of Trade, had he continued so, would have defended the Reports of the Railway Department. There was no contradiction in these two statements. The organ of the Board of Trade not un-frequently made a statement in that House of his views in reference to Private Bills, and took his chance of being defeated or not, as the case might be; but the Government, as a Government, were not involved in the proceedings.
 Mr. Miles  candidly confessed that seeing the situation of the country, knowing that to establish credit on the firmest basis was the surest sign of prosperity in a country, and feeling that no reduction of taxation upon land could be obtained without an Income Tax carried on for three or four years longer, he felt that to give activity to commerce and manufactures, and in some degree to alleviate the indirect taxation upon agriculture, the Income Tax would be on the whole beneficial to the country. He did not mean if rendered permanent; he meant that it should be continued only for a short time. If he were asked whether we should endeavour to relieve industry by rendering it permanent, he should say not. Still he thought the right hon. Baronet had introduced the measure with the best intentions; but that he had not considered all the interests that were concerned. He found that commerce and manufactures were in a flourishing condition if compared with the state they had been in two or three years ago; but he found agriculture depressed, and yet no attempt was made indirectly to relieve agriculture; by direct means he believed it to be impossible. He was not one who would stand up in that House and ask the right hon. Baronet to take off the Malt Tax, because, in the first place he knew the surplus would not allow it, and in the next place the agriculturists, if they made such a demand, would be looked upon as endeavouring to monopolize everything that could be remitted in the way of taxation; but when there was a surplus of three millions and upwards, he thought agriculture should have been taken into consideration concurrently with commerce and manufactures, and considering the party which supported the right hon. Baronet, the small remission of indirect taxation which had taken place, and the great power that now presented itself by the reduction of the county rates of materially relieving agriculture while there would be also a great tendency thereby to benefit the nation generally, by placing those rates under better guidance and a more regular management,
 609 l. l. 610 l.,
 Mr. Vernon Smith  rose principally for the purpose of asking a question of the right hon. Baronet. Before, however, he did so, he wished to observe that in the course of the various schemes or chances of prosperity which were held out, and the speculations indulged in by the right hon. Baronet, two positive results only were shown to arise—the first that the agricultural interest had nothing to hope for in the way of relief from the right hon. Baronet, or from any other minister. The hon. Member for Dorsetshire professed that he entertained no hope, and in this sentiment he was followed by other Members connected with the agricultural interest. Although having nothing like the interest
 611 612 613 l.
 The Marquess of Granby  said, that he thought the right hon. Baronet had misunderstood the feelings of the agriculturists, and that their complaint was, not only that no direct relief had been offered to them, but that the right hon. Baronet had not traced the effects his measures would have upon the agricultural interest in the same manner as he had traced their effects upon the manufacturing and commercial classes. The agricultural distress was admitted on all hands; but he asked, what would the manufacturers have said, if, three years ago, when the manufacturing districts were in great distress, the Government had said to them,—"It is perfectly true that you are in distress, but that distress is not owing to our legislative measures—it arises from the disturbance of affairs in America, and therefore we cannot relieve you by legislation; but we propose to take the duty off malt, and though that remission of taxation will be no direct benefit to you, yet you will be benefited indirectly by such a course." The manufacturers would have had a right to complain of such usage. That was now the position of the agriculturists. He certainly
 632
 Mr. Collett  could not support the Amendment. The Property Tax was to be regarded only as a part of the system now proposed, of which a great financial improvement was held out as the result. No doubt, abstractedly, the Property Tax was a war tax, and could not be justified in time of peace, except by unusual circumstances. He considered those circumstances at present to exist, and thought this made out by the statement of the right hon. Baronet opposite. The general tendency of the existing legislative system had long been to make the poor man poorer, and the rich man richer; but the measure now proposed by the right hon. Baronet had the opposite tendency of increasing the comforts of the poor man, placing the burden of taxation on those who were in comparatively easy circumstances. The scheme would, he believed, tend to the benefit of the manufacturing interest, and the general comfort of the poor of the country.
 Colonel Conolly  said, that some of the hon. Gentlemen who had addressed the House had been at great pains in endeavouring to prove that the Income Tax was not merely to be continued for a limited period, but that it was intended to become a tax in perpetuity. Now he did not hesitate to express his conviction that great advantage had resulted from that tax. There could be no doubt that the Income Tax had relieved us from that deficiency of revenue which existed some years since, and against which the hon. Member for Halifax (Mr. C. Wood) had warned the present Government. He would state the grounds upon which he approved the continuance of the Income Tax. The Income Tax had had the effect of greatly improving public credit; and the consequence was that not only had the nation been relieved from the payment of a large amount of interest on the public debt, but the general rate of interest had been greatly reduced. He felt himself particularly called upon to state that he considered great benefit had been conferred upon the country whence he came, which was very destitute of capital, by that tax; for its effect had been to relieve the great distress of the landed interest. Numbers of landed proprietors in Ireland had been enabled to relieve their estates. Did hon. Gentlemen think that was not a public advantage? [ Laughter. 597 598
 Lord J. Russell : I quite agree with the proposal for adjourning this discussion to Wednesday. I wish, however, to ask the right hon. Baronet when the Resolution as to the Sugar Duties will be brought forward. No doubt the Government is anxious to press it; but a few days should, I think, be allowed for the consideration of the proposal of Government.
 Lord John Russell : I am very glad that the House, and the right hon. Gentleman, the First Lord of the Treasury, on Friday evening consented to postpone for another day the decision of the House upon this question, because the more I consider the question the more I conceive that its importance should be placed higher, and its magnitude regarded
 543 544 545 "Such being the circumstances," (said the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer,) "I think it is obvious that I should not be acting a candid, or even an honest part, were I to attempt to induce the House to consent to a large reduction of
 546 547 l., 548 549 l. l. l. l. l. 550 l. 551 l. l., l., l., l. 552 primâ facie 553 554 555 556 l. l. l. 557 558
 Mr. Hastie , seeing the right hon. Baronet in his place, wished to ask him whether it was his intention to admit East India sugar under the new Sugar Duties Act in the same class of sugar in which it had heretofore been admitted, namely, as Muscovado sugar?
 Mr. Hastie  remarked, that the classification of the sugar would make a difference in the duty of 2 s. d.
 Mr. B. Escott  was sorry to hear that suspicions had been excited with reference to some of the proceedings of the Railway Board; but it was important that they should consider whether there was not something in the constitution of that Board which made suspicion inevitable. It was his conscientious belief that no Board having to decide on matters of such grave importance as those brought under the notice of the Railway Department of the Board of Trade, could ever give satisfaction unless its proceedings were open to the public. This Railway Committee sat as a court of judicature pronouncing on some of the greatest and most important questions that could come before any tribunal; and he had not the slightest doubt, however honourable and upright the parties might be, their decision would always be liable to suspicion, as long as they were secret.
 Mr. C. Buller  had been quite aware, before the hon. Member for Bath got up, of the extraordinary predicament in which Members on that side had placed themselves, by the tone of the language they had held on the subject of this tax. It seemed to him that the universal opinion on that side of the House, with the one singular exception of the hon. Member for Kendal, who thought they would get rid
 633 634
 Mr. C. Wood  should not disturb that unanimity of the House to which the right hon. Gentleman alluded by disputing the necessity of continuing the Income Tax for a short and limited period, but he certainly had expected when the right hon. Gentleman rose, that he would have shown the grounds on which he expected that the sources of revenue left would rise so as to enable him to take off the Income Tax at the expiration of that period. He did think that something more was required than the assertion of a general principle, that in some cases the reduction of taxation was followed by an increase in other articles of revenue. The whole question turned on what the right hon. Gentleman stated—a judicious selection of subjects on which the reduction was to be made. They were perfectly agreed on this, that if the selection of articles for reduction were judiciously made, that in that case nothing was so likely and probable as that an increased consumption of those and other articles should follow; and they (the Opposition) calculated as much as the right hon. Gentleman, that the Revenue might rise to such an extent as to enable them to get rid of the evil of an Income Tax, provided the measures which were proposed for the modification of taxation were wisely chosen. But the point on which they differed, and which the right hon. Gentleman had left untouched was, whether the selection which the right hon. Gentleman had made was a judicious selection or not, and whether the selection afforded a reasonable prospect of the Revenue rising again in three years. With regard to the general argument against the Income Tax—to its inequality and injustice, and vexation, no attempts had been made to answer it. That tax had been acquiesced in because he believed that there was in the minds of the people of this country the most fixed determination to support the credit of the country. He believed more than that, that circumstances had contributed to its being borne with patience more than they could expect. In the manufacturing districts the Income Tax was calculated in a period of low profits; since that time trade had increased, and an amount of tax determined by a low scale of profits, had in fact been paid when the profits were high. He did not
 583 l., 584 l. l. 585 
 
 1841. 1844. 
 cwts. cwts. 
 Potatoes 1,700 99,000 
 Lard 97 76,000 
 Rice of British Possessions 213,000 302,000 
 Coffee, British Possessions lbs. lbs. 
 14,000,000 20,000,000 586 l. ex post facto 587 l. 
 
 £ 
 From ordinary sources 47,900,000 
 Income Tax 5,200,000 
 Making a total receipt of 53,100,000 
 The Expenditure was 49,700,000 
 Leaving a surplus of 3,400,000 l., l., l. 588 l. l. 589 s. d. l. l. 590 s. s s, s. s. s. s., s. s. 591 592 593 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 594 l., l. l. 595 l. l., l. l. l. 596
 Mr. C. Wood  did not think the answer of the right hon. Baronet calculated to give satisfaction either to the House or to the country, however he might be justified by precedent. He, too, had heard such reports as those alluded to by the hon. and learned Member for Bath, amongst members of the community interested in railways; and before the same question was again put and the same answer given, the Government should consider whether such an answer was calculated to give confidence in the Railway Department of the Board of Trade. He had heard from other sources the reports to which allusion had made. It had been stated in the city, and upon authority upon which some reliance was to be placed, that, with regard to the only Report yet laid upon the Table of the House, one of the Members of the Railway Board had not voted at all—that the other Members were equally divided—and that the casting vote was given by means of a double vote on the part of one of the Members of that
 533
 Mr. G. Bankes  wished to say, in consequence of an observation made by his right hon. Friend the other night, that he (Mr. Bankes) had come rather too soon before the House with his objections to the Report of the Committee of the Board of Trade,—that the reason he did so was, that he was in hopes of thereby stopping an arrangement which he understood was planned under the sanction of the Board of Trade, which he thought would be very injurious to the interests of the county which he represented. He understood that the Board of Trade had made themselves a party to that arrangement; and he believed that he could produce proofs that a guarantee had been given by the Board for the fulfilment of conditions which he considered would be most injurious to the county.
 Mr. G. Bankes  said, that he felt assured the hilarity which had prevailed in the House during the speech of the hon. and gallant Member was occasioned by the gratification afforded from his account of the prosperous condition of Ireland; and he trusted that the Irish people, with that sense of justice for which they were so eminently distinguished, would now insist on bearing an equal share of the taxation of the Kingdom. For he did assure his hon. Friend, that there were at this moment, in many parts of England, depression as severe, distress as alarming, as any which the hon. Member described as having prevailed, and as having been happily overcome in the sister kingdom. It was a circumstance of pain to him and to his friends that they were called upon at that moment of agricultural depression to give their judgment on that important question, and to say whether or no they would for three years more endure that heavy tax, which was imposed at a period even when matters seemed for this interest far more flourishing than at present. The noble Lord opposite and the hon. and learned Member for Bath, had alluded to this interest. He had, indeed, no observations to make in reply to the speeches either of his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, or of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, for they had not in any way mentioned or alluded to that interest. He (Mr. Bankes) could not bat notice that circumstance with regret, because undoubtedly the Government had been apprised in plain terms that great distress did exist. The hon. and learned Member for Bath had taken occasion to
 599 l. 600 601
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that differing in the result from the hon. Members who had spoken that evening, there were at least several points upon which it appeared there was great uniformity of opinion. No hon. Gentleman who had yet spoken objected, either with or without modification, to the continuance of the Income Tax. Another point of agreement was the additional expenditure stated by his right hon. Friend to be necessary for the Naval Service of the country; he believed no Gentleman when he saw the Estimates on the Table would refuse to give them in detail his approbation. The right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, asked upon what ground he thought the Income Tax would not be renewed at the expiration of the period for which it was now sought to prolong it? He told the right hon. Gentleman that his anticipation for the future was grounded on his experience of the past. His right hon. Friend, on the former occasion, said that if the Estimates for the present year could be the same as those proposed in the last or in former years, we might safely abandon the Income Tax which was imposed in 1842. It was in order to meet this necessary increase of expenditure, with respect to the propriety of which all agreed, that an increased revenue became imperatively necessary. It must be in the recollection of the Committee that when the present Income Tax was brought forward, it was not only intended to meet the large deficiency in the Revenue which then existed, but to afford means for the removal or modification of taxes on a number of articles, the continuance of which, in their then form, imposed great burdens on the industry and the commercial energy of the country. His right hon. Friend, in considering the nature of these duties, suggested that by the removal of them you would give such a stimulus to the industrial energies of the people, and lead to such an increase of revenue from other sources, that it might not be necessary, as was originally intimated by his right hon. Friend, to take the Income Tax for five years; and he added, that he trusted that at that time, the revival of the general Revenue of the country would be such that he should be able to dispense with a further continuance of the tax on Property. Now, what was the situation of the Revenue? He held in his hand a most important return, showing the amount of Public Revenue made up for each year,
 574 l. l. l. l., l. 575 l. l., l. l. l., l. 576 577 "If you attempt to arrange your taxes in a manner which shall effect the diversion of capital from one employment to another, you will produce greater evils in the internal state of the country than by any other course you could possibly adopt." 578 579 Roebuck: s. d. 580 581 l. 582
 Mr. Labouchere  was of opinion that the answer given by the right hon. Baronet was anything but satisfactory. It was important to consider the distinction between this Railway Department and other Boards. The duties had been entrusted to
 534 535
 Mr. Labouchere  had not complained of the Board of Trade for making these Reports; that was their duty, enjoined by the House. What he complained of was the mode in which the Board of Trade or the Government had thought fit to carry the recommendations of the Select Committee into effect by constituting the new Board. Nothing had passed in the House of Commons, and nothing appeared in the recommendations of the Select Committee which at all led to that conclusion. It was a cumbrous and inconvenient mode of proceeding—it raised subordinate Members of the Board of Trade to a parity with the President or Vice President, and was therefore a most inconvenient course in respect to a Public Department. With regard to the mode in which the duty imposed on the Railway Department had been discharged, he had expressed no opinion.
 Mr. Labouchere  apprehended it was the right hon. Baronet's intention to propose that the Sugar Duties Bill should be passed for one year only, as had hitherto been the case. As there was some doubt among the public regarding the intention of the right hon. Gentleman, and it was a point of great constitutional as well as commercial importance, perhaps he would state whether that were his intention.
 Mr. Warburton  was quite prepared to agree with the hon. Member for Halifax, that if Government were prepared to act with energy in laying open the industry of the country in those great branches of trade in which it could be laid open, by abolishing great monopolies, the revenue of this country might, in three years, be made to equal the expenditure. He altogether disapproved of the proposal of the right hon. Baronet with respect to the differential duties upon sugar, a proposal which not only went to continue the differential duty in favour of West Indian sugar, but to increase that duty. It ought to be recollected, that nearly all the West Indian sugar which comes to this country, comes in the state of what is called Muscovado sugar, whilst that which comes from the East Indies is principally in the state of clayed sugar; so that the proposal of the right hon. Baronet was practically to add 2 s. d. s d. s. s. d., 602 603 604
 Mr. Roebuck  only wanted to say a word. Every person who had spoken on that side of the House condemned the Property Tax or Income Tax, with the exception of the hon. Member for Kendal (Mr. Warburton), who, he thought, had condemned the proposal to continue it for only three years. Almost every person, except the hon. Member for Kendal, had discountenanced the notion that it should be permanent; and, at the same time, every person had declared an expectation that it would be permanent. Therefore every one had declared their condemnation of the Income Tax, and then they had come to the conclusion that they ought to vote for it.
 Mr. Roebuck  said: I mean to propose an Amendment, to extend this tax to Ireland. I am anxious to allow time to discuss that proposal, but if the Resolution is passed, I must divide now.
 Mr. Roebuck  felt disappointed by the conclusion of the speech of the noble Lord, who had impugned every principle of the plan of the right hon. Baronet, and opposed almost all the items of the Budget, yet ended with a declaration which the noble Lord knew could not be fulfilled. The noble Lord knew as well as he (Mr. Roebuck) did, that the statement that the Income Tax was to be renewed for three years, was a mere phrase in the mouth of the right hon. Baronet, and that henceforward it would be a permanent tax. On this account he had been disappointed by the speech of the noble Lord. Why had it been made? For what purpose was it intended? He supposed, simply to find fault, and to guard the noble Lord from any consequences that might follow the scheme. He would not take the noble Lord as his model; he believed the proposal wrong in principle from beginning to end, and he therefore intended to conclude by a substantive amendment. Seeing that the noble Lord objected also to the principle as well as to the items, he hoped that the noble Lord would divide with him. He would assume, for the purposes of argument, that the Income Tax was to be permanent, and although the hon. Member for Kendal (Mr. Warburton) was not present, and although he (Mr. Roebuck) was not  pari tanti viri 559 l. l. 560 l. l. l. l., l. 561 l., l. 562 l. Vestiges of the Natural History of the Creation, "It was proposed to establish in London a society for insuring the integrity of clerks, secretaries, collectors, and all such functionaries as are usually obliged to find security for money passing through their hands in the course of business. A gentleman of the highest character as an actuary, spoke of the plan in the following terms:—'If a thousand bankers' clerks were to club together to indemnify their securities by the payment of 1 l. l., 563 564 l. 565 l. l. d. s. l., l. 566 l. l. l. 567 Mr. Warburton: 568 569
 Mr. Roebuck  begged to observe, for the information of the right hon. Gentleman, that with regard to the first question put by the noble Lord, it was confidently asserted in the city that certain Members of the Board had so voted, and their names were mentioned. It was stated that a casting
 532
 Mr. Borthwick  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury, whether there was any truth in a rumour which had appeared in the  Morning Chronicle Morning Post 530
 Mr. Milnes  did not attribute much importance to the alleged want of unanimity in the decisions of the Board. The House was called upon, not to judge by the authority of the names appended to a decision inserted in the  Gazette,
 Mr. R. Palmer  could add his testimony to the speech of the hon. Member for Dorsetshire, as to the view which the agriculturists took of the proposed measures of the right hon. Baronet; for he was able to state that great disappointment prevailed throughout the country amongst those who were connected with agriculture, in consequence of the distribution of taxation which had been proposed by the right hon. Baronet in his speech on Friday night. No one who heard the speech of the right hon. Baronet, in introducing his financial measures, could fail to admire the talent and ability which he exhibited. In his power of making a financial statement, he exceeded any Minister whom he remembered; and he only regretted that, in the able display of the right hon. Gentleman on Friday night, he had not dwelt more upon the condition of those whose whole subsistence was derived from the land, and whose profits had been decreasing for the last three years. It was supposed by that class—he could not say whether justly or not — that the depression which existed amongst agriculturists, and the decrease of their profits for the last three years, had been produced by the measures affecting agriculture which had been introduced during that period: and, under those circumstances, he did not think it was too much for them to look forward to some proposition for the relief of agriculture in the Budget; particularly when, previous to its being laid before the House, it had been ascertained that there was so much surplus revenue. He regretted very much that no such proposition had been made; and that when such a reduction of taxation was proposed, the agriculturists had been passed unnoticed, or, at least, not mentioned until the last line or two, according to the reports of the right hon. Baronet's speech which he had seen. It
 605 606
 Mr. Wallace  said, that the first Report of the Board of Trade had been printed, and that he intended to move that there should be laid on the Table of the House all the Documents on which that Report had been founded, so that the House might understand what had been done. The right hon. Gentleman had said that this was an unprecedented proposal; but it should be recollected, also, that the House was placed in an unprecedented situation by this new Board which had been imposed upon Parliament, and he would test the House whether it would act under the dictation of the Board of Trade, or would act independently.
 Mr. Gibson  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether, in classifying sugars
 529 ad valorem
 Mr. T. M. Gibson  said, that to the complaints of the hon. Member who had last addressed the House, and the hon. Member for Dorsetshire, of the neglect of the agricultural interest, the most appropriate answer which could be given was that which had been given on a former occasion by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, with respect to Ireland, namely, that concession had been carried to its farthest limits. It would be highly satisfactory to the House if the hon. Member (Mr. Palmer) and his Friends could point out the particular grievances of which they complained, and explain how they affected them. He had, on the contrary, heard it stated, that the agricultural interest had been favoured with great exemptions in the distribution of the national burdens, and that care had been taken to throw the largest amount of those burdens on the manufacturing and commercial community, and that in the imposition of many important items of taxation the agriculturists were left out. The immediate question before the House now, however, was the Income Tax, and to that he should apply himself; and though he felt a little difficulty with respect to the proposition of the hon. and learned Member for Bath, yet he could not go altogether with the hon. Member for Kendal, although he agreed with him that, when a man gets rid of his
 607 l., l.. s. 608
 Mr. Wakley  said, that there was no complaint against the Government or the Board of Trade which was not as applicable to the House of Commons; because what had been done last Session, had been done with the sanction of the House itself. It was
 542
 Sir George Clerk  said, that with regard to the first question, he believed there was no precedent for it. He believed that when a Report was made by any public Board, that Report was to be taken as the act of the Board collectively, for which they made themselves responsible. It was the first time that any question had ever been asked as to what discussions had taken place at the Board, and he must decline giving any answer, because, if he were to answer such a question, it would be establishing an inconvenient and dangerous precedent, and he had only to request that neither the noble Lord nor the House would draw any inference as to the Report from his silence. With regard to the second question, he had to state that the Board of Trade had no intention of laying before the House the voluminous statements which had been submitted to them by the various parties to railway schemes. He was not aware that there would be any objection to laying those statements before the House if the noble Lord should think them necessary. In the future progress of those measures, no doubt the parties interested would lay before the Committee appointed to consider them all the statements they had to make, either in recommendation of their own schemes, or in opposition to the schemes of their rivals. He knew of no reason why these should not be printed, except that they were exceedingly voluminous, and would take a long time to copy.
 Sir G. Grey  wished to ask any Member of the Government, before the debate proceeded further, to clear up the ambiguity which attached to the subject since the notice had been given of the proposition which the right hon. Baronet on Friday night had submitted to the House. In the Speech from the Throne, it was intimated that it would be recommended to Parliament to consider whether it might not be expedient to continue for a limited time the Tax upon Property and Income, and to consider also whether other taxes which bore upon industry might not be taken off. The right hon. Baronet, in strict accordance with that recommendation, had placed upon the Notice Book a Resolution which went to pledge the House to the continuance of that tax; and in his speech of Friday night last, after having taken an extended survey
 570 bonâ fide 571 bonâ fide 572
 Sir J. Tyrell  said, if the House would bear him with a short time, as the debate was drawing to a close, he would endeavour to explain his views to them as far as the agricultural interests were concerned. He must say, notwithstanding the able speech of the right hon. Baronet on that evening, and his three hours' speech of Friday last, that he participated in the opinions of those who considered the agricultural interests hardly dealt by. It was ominous that the 14th of February, St. Valentine's Day he might observe, was an unfortunate day for the agricultural interest. For when, in 1834, the right hon. Baronet was paying his addresses to the agricultural interests, his language was of a very
 626 Hansard; "The noble Lord said, he could not afford more than the 1,200,000 l. 627 l. l. l., 628 J. Russell: "Sir, at the time the Reform Bill passed, I stated my belief that it must necessarily give a preponderence to the landed interest; and although it may be deemed that such preponderance has been somewhat unduly given, I still think that a preponderance in favour of
 629 630 "The agitation of this question did not originate with those who are termed the rich Aristocracy of the country, but with an individual who avowed himself, and was acknowledged, as the advocate of popular rights." "It was altogether an error to suppose that the Repeal of the Income Tax was the act of the Aristocracy. The hon. Member (Mr. Young) had not heard, as he had, year after year, month after month, and week after week, speeches from the other side against the Income Tax, the arguments used against it being that it threw impediments in the way of trade and commerce, and interfered unfairly with the labouring classes of the community. If the tax was so advantageous, as compared with other taxes, how came it to pass that it was selected as the best tax to be removed? And if the tax should be re-imposed, it should apply to all parts of the United Kingdom, Ireland as well as England." 631 l. l.
 Sir R. Peel : The hon. Member who has just addressed the House will have for his inspection either to-morrow or next day, a paper which will contain a list of the whole of the articles now included in the Tariff, and from which it is now proposed by the Government to remove the duty. When I introduced the financial measure of the Government, I stated generally that certain remissions of duty would take place—I mentioned some of the raw materials from which it is proposed the duty should be removed, especially those connected with manufactures. But if the hon. Member meant that I should have gone through the whole of the 430 articles from which it is proposed to remove the duty in the statement I made on Friday night, I must say that I feel I should ere I had enumerated fifty of the articles have completely exhausted the patience of the House. I think, therefore, that I adopted the best plan in the course I pursued. The hon. Gentleman will, however, find a complete list of the articles he refers to in the paper which will be ready to-morrow or next day. Now, Sir, I was sorry to hear from my hon. Friend the Member for Somersetshire that I have been insensible to the distress which in some parts of the country prevails among the agriculturists. My hon. Friend the Member for Somersetshire stated that I had received the statements of the tenant-farmers, and that I had listened to
 614 A Laugh. 615 l. 616 s. d. d., 617 618 l., 619 l. l. l. s. l. l., l. 620 l. l., l. l., l. 621 l. l. l. 622
 Sir R. Peel : If the hon. and learned Gentleman persevere, I must give way; but I wish to remind him that the same Resolution which imposes the Income Tax here imposes an additional Stamp Duty on Ireland. I shall, therefore, give the prosal of the hon. and learned Gentleman my most decided opposition.
 Sir R. Peel  was somewhat surprised at the observations which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Labouchere) and he thought it unfortunate that that right hon. Gentleman, with his experience, had not taken, last Session, when this subject was under consideration, the course he had pursued to-night, and had not warned the House of all those inconveniences which he had dwelt on just now. He was sorry that there should be an impression that the Government had assumed a power which had not received the sanction of that House. It appeared to him that the Government had acted as nearly as possible in conformity with the Report of the Select Committee on Railways, and with what appeared to be the sense of the House. The Select Committee appointed on Railways had to consider whether the then present mode of
 540 "That such Reports should on no account be regarded in any other light than as intended to afford to Parliament, firstly, additional aid in the elucidation of the facts by the testimony of witnesses competent by knowledge, habit, and opportunity, and officially responsible; and, secondly, recommendations founded upon such elucidation;—that their purport should be, not in any case to give the absolute advice that a given railway should be made, but to state whether or not there were further reasons which ought, in the opinion of the Department, to be decisive against it, or whether it ought to be postponed until its merits could be examined in connexion with those of some other scheme, or which of two or more contending schemes appeared preferable, in the event that only one should appear likely to receive the sanction of Parliament." "That the adequate and satisfactory discharge of their duties would entail upon the Board of Trade a great additional amount of labour and responsibility, and it was the opinion of the Committee that if the recommendations of that and of its other Reports were
 541
 Sir R. Peel  must say, it was not a good practice for hon. Members to ask Ministers to give explanations with respect to newspaper rumours, particularly when an hon. Gentleman found a rumour that was sufficiently absurd to be its own contradiction, and wanted no explanation from him. It was rather hard in that particular case, that the hon. Gentleman should submit him (Sir Robert Peel) to the ordeal of answering it. However, he must leave it to the decision of hon. Gentlemen themselves to ask such questions or to refrain from asking them. Inferences were sometimes drawn from silence, when, on the whole, silence would be the best possible course to observe; but, to guard against the possibility of any erroneous inference, he would state, for the information of the hon. Gentleman, that, that paragraph was totally without foundation.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that would generally be the case, although he would not pretend to go into every particular case. Presuming that clayed sugar was generally more valuable than Muscovado, that would be the effect of the arrangement.
 Sir R. Peel  answered, that under any circumstances, if the Sugar Duties were made permanent, he should have been very much disposed to propose that some other duty, of nearly equal amount, should be made temporary, in order that there might be no infraction of constitutional principle. His own opinion was, that it would he better that the new Sugar Duties should be of a permanent character; but, under all the circumstances, looking at the greatness of the change, he was not prepared to advise that the new Sugar Duties, supposing them to be sanctioned by Parliament, should be continued beyond the 5th of July, 1846.
 Sir R. Peel  thought, it would be better to postpone for the present any discussion as to the details of the measure.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he had stated on Friday that a distinction was intended to be made between Muscovado and white-clayed sugar.
 Viscount Howick  wished to put a question with respect to the Railway Department of the Board of Trade. He observed, that the Reports of that Committee were signed by all the five Members of it. Now, he wished to know if, from that circumstance, they were to infer that all those five Gentlemen signing that Report concurred in it, and whether they were all of the same opinion? This question was of considerable importance, because, as it was now determined that those Reports were not to be conclusive, but only to be influential so far as they were consistent with reason, it, of course, made a very material difference in their authority whether they were the unanimous Reports of those five Gentlemen, or whether they were approved of only by two or three of them. It struck him that, in a vast number of railway projects, it was almost impossible to find five Gentlemen of the same opinion; and that it would be very remarkable to see five men of the same opinion as to any; but here we had five who, upon all subjects submitted to them, happened to have precisely the same opinion. He found it was very currently reported, that as to the only Report hitherto presented by them, the fact was not so; that one of the five Gentlemen did not vote, and the other four being equally divided, the question was decided by the President of the Board giving his casting vote. If that was the fact, it was one they
 531
 Viscount Howick  explained, that he had on a former occasion stated, that the Gentlemen constituting the Railway Committee of the Board of Trade, had to dispose of property larger in amount than that disposed of by the Judges in Westminster Hall; and he added, that those to whom was committed the disposal of this large amount of property ought to be of a station in some degree at least approaching to that of Judges. That was all he had said, and he never meant to use the word "clerks" in any invidious sense.
 Viscount Howick  said, that he did not mean to address more than a few observations to the House. He could not, however, after the speech made by the right hon. Baronet, avoid expressing his great disappointment that no attempt had been made by him to reply to the statement of his hon. Friend, as to the general financial condition of the country, and which was a comment on that delivered by the right hon. Gentleman. To the exposition of the unsatisfactory statement of the right hon. Baronet, no attempt at a reply had been made. His hon. Friend (Mr. C. Wood) had demonstrated how unsatisfactory was
 623 l. l. l. l. l. 624 s. s. 625 l.
 Lord Ashley  rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice, and addressed the House to this effect: — Sir, The subject which I feel bound to bring under the consideration of the House is so much akin to others which I have had the honour to bring forward, that I fear I cannot promise anything in the way of novelty in the evidence I have to adduce, or in the arguments derived form it; but, nevertheless, I do hope that the House will extend to me its patient indulgence while I bring before it the case of a large class of out fellow-subjects who have never yet been represented here. I am about to speak in behalf of a large body who have been much oppressed, and I may say, have been altogether forgotten—but whose interests are of great value to themselves, and, if taken in connexion with their cotemporary labourers, are calculated to have a powerful influence on the destinies of the Empire. It will be recollected that in the year 1840 I had the honour to move in this House for a Commission to inquire into the employment of children in the various departments of labour. That Commission made a very voluminous Report; and in a Summary of that Report, from which I shall read a few extracts, they stated what was the condition of many thousands, I may say hundreds of thousands, of children. I do not here mean those employed in the factories, but those employed
 639 "A large proportion of the children and young persons employed in this branch of trade are girls, the proportion in Lancashire being upwards of one-third of the whole number under thirteen." 640 "Calico printing, with its subsidiary processes of bleaching and dyeing, is carried on to the greatest extent in the cotton districts of Lancashire, Cheshire, Derbyshire, and the west of Scotland. There are also a few printworks near London, and several near Dublin." "In Lancashire, Cheshire, and Derbyshire, instances occur in which children begin work in this employment at as early as between four and five, and several between five and six inclusive, many begin between six and seven, still more between seven and eight, and the great majority between eight and nine. Out of 565 children taken indiscriminately from returns obtained from each section of this district, it appears that one child began work between four and five; three between five and six; sixty-eight between six and seven; 133 between seven and eight; 156 between eight and nine; 127 between nine and ten; forty-nine between ten and eleven; twenty-six between eleven and twelve; and two between twelve and thirteen. In the east of Scotland children commence work at the same early ages; the Rev. John Dempster, Minister of Denny, states that infants may be seen at work as early as five years of age, having got
 641 "But," (says the Report) "it must be borne in mind that these Returns give only the number of children employed at the time the Return was made, and it has often happened that at the time half the tables at the work have been standing still." "But this estimate," (says the Commissioner) "by no means includes the total number;. … there are several other departments in which, though they commence somewhat later than as teerers, many children are employed. The works at West Ham, in Essex, are on the largest scale, and those at Carshalton, in Surrey, are considerable." l. 642 "There is perhaps no description of manufacture in which the convenience and comfort of the places in which the various operations are carried on differ so materially in different establishments, and even in different departments of the same establishments, as in calico printing. … With the view of lessening, as far as practicable, the noxiousness of these operations, some proprietors spare neither trouble nor expense to secure proper ventilation, temperature, and drainage; but in great numbers of cases these conditions of the place of work are deplorably neglected. Here are specimens. The hooking and lashing-out rooms, and the singeing-rooms, are very disagreeable places, the air of which is filled with dust, and in the latter with small burnt particles, which irritate the eyes and nostrils exceedingly. 'On going into this room with a friend,' (says the Sub-Commissioner,) 'we were both instantly affected, our eyes began to smart, and we felt a ticklish sensation in the throat and nostrils, much the same as that produced by taking snuff. I noticed that all the children who were employed in this room were more or less affected with inflammation and copious discharge from the eyes. The temperature of the workshops usually varies from sixty-five to eighty degrees … the stoves are often overheated, and I have occasionally seen them red hot. The temperature to which the stenters are exposed is very high, from eighty-five to 100 degrees. I have found them between eleven and twelve years old working fourteen hours. The temperature at which,' says the Commissioner, 'I usually found these stoves, when the girls were filling them, was 110 degrees, or fever heat, and the steam rising from the wet goods as they are hung up is still more suffocating and oppressive than dry heat would be.'" "Robert Crawford, blockmaker, states, that in the kiln, where the block runs through on rollers to dry the colours, no one can work above three or at most five minutes. Mary Moody and Mary Maxwell, stove-girls, state, that the girls often faint from exhaustion caused by the heat. John Rodger, machineprinter, slates, that the girls who attend on the dash-wheel have to stand with the feet and petticoats always wet, and that this in severe weather causes great hardship. Mr. David Young, surgeon, of Bridgetown, says, that from his experience as a medical man he knows that at certain periodical seasons the dash-wheel produces very injurious effects on women. But of Mr. Swaisland's works in Kent, there is a different report: the whole of the premises, particularly the room where the teerers work, are clean, spacious, lofty, and well-ventilated, heated in winter by warm-water
 643 "The work of the teerers does not require much muscular exertion, while it admits of some variety, as they occasionally bring the colour from the colour shop, and it is also their duty to wash the blocks and cleanse the sieves; but, on the other hand, their exertion of attention must be almost unremitting;—they must keep their arms in a continual rotatory motion, and during the whole time they are at work they must be upon their feet." "The regular hours of work in the different departments of the printfield are rarely less than twelve—including the time allowed for meals,—but it is by no means uncommon in all the districts for children of from five to six years old to be kept at work for fourteen, and even sixteen hours, consecutively. "In those of Lancashire, Cheshire, and Derbyshire, the nominal—not the actual, be it observed,—hours of work are twelve, including meal hours; but there can scarcely be said to be any regular hours, for all the block printers are in the habit of working over time, and as they are paid, and are independent of machinery, they are at liberty to work what hours they please." "I began to work between eight and nine o'clock on Wednesday night, but the boy had been sweeping the shop from Wednesday morning. You will scarcely believe it,—but it is true,—I never left the shop till six o'clock on the Saturday morning, and I had never stopped working all that time;—I was knocked up, and the boy was almost insensible. 644 "There were men there, and children too, who came on a Monday morning, and stayed till Saturday night." "At four o'clock I began to work, and worked all that day, all the next night, and until ten o'clock the following day. I had only one teerer during that time, and I dare say he would be about twelve years old. … I have known children made ill by working too long hours; the boy that worked for me at the Adelphi was sometimes unable to come to his work from being sick with overworking." "The regular hours for work are from six to six, with two intervals for meals, sometimes of one hour each, leaving about ten working hours." "I have been hitherto describing the regular hours, but these, I am sorry to say are but too frequently prolonged by over hours… Two or three hours of over work a day is, however, not uncommon, making on the whole fourteen or fifteen hours, including meals." "Instances were found of girls working at the steam cans for thirty-eight hours in succession. Now, in some establishments these long hours are not allowed—Mr. T. Greig, of the firm of Watson, Jackson, and Greig, stated to the Sub-Commissioner, that in three years the utmost number of hours actually worked by any one was thirteen per day, and the utmost for the children was ten a day, the average not being above than nine and a half." "The occasional practice of night work in print grounds in all the districts is universal, while in many it is so general and constant
 645 "Relays are sometimes from six to six, or twelve o'clock in the day to twelve o'clock at night (called twelving), or from four in the morning till twelve, and from twelve till nine at night." "Before she was six years and a half old, she worked all night three or four nights a week." "I have worked all night many a time. I have worked all day and all night too, without stopping, except for meals." "I came on Friday morning at seven o'clock, worked all day and all night until Saturday morning at six o'clock. … I took snuff to keep myself awake." "I was once a teerer, but I could not stand the work. I once worked three nights teering blue colour, but it made me sick and giddy in my head." "Many times I worked all day and all night too. Sometimes I have gone at eight o'clock in the morning, worked all day and all night until eight o'clock the next morning." "Robert Kellatt, block printer, has seen a child named Hellin, seven years old, work from six o'clock in the morning until eleven o'clock at night for a week together on an average; he teered for his father, who worked him quite beyond his strength." "I have known a man," (says William Archer, a foreman) "work three days and three nights, without ever going home, and be had the same teerer all the time." 646 "In general there is no night work in the printfields of Ireland… There are exceptions to this, though rare." "Tendency of the improvements progressively made in the processes of calico printing has been to diminish the labour of the children, and to lessen their danger of injuring their work; at the same time there has been a growing disapprobation on the part of the workpeople of any oppressive treatment of the children … Severe punishment, which was formerly common, is now scarcely known." "The evidence collected in the Lancashire district tends to show that the children employed in this occupation are excluded from the opportunities of education; that this necessarily contributes to the growth of an ignorant and vicious population; that the facility of obtaining early employment for children in printfields, empties the day schools; that parents without hesitation sacrifice the future welfare of their children through life for the immediate advantage or gratification obtained by the additional pittance derived from the child's earnings." "When I first came into this district, which is now many years since, my scholars stayed much longer with me; and I had then a chance of making something of them. On looking at the number of scholars, it appeared that they had diminished one-half since 1832, notwithstanding the remarkable increase of population in this district within the last ten years." "To the facility of getting employment at high wages for very young children, and to the indifference of the parents about the education of their children .. The block printers," (he adds) "can make from 20 s. s. d. "But of the means of instruction that are provided, the children of the manufacturing population generally, and those
 647 "Of many of the children in the print grounds of Lancashire, and especially of those who have been the least educated, it is stated that they appear to have no sense of moral obligation; they are generally not trustworthy, and are given to pilfering, lying, and fighting.…. Of the same class in Scotland, it is stated that the ease with which parents are enabled to rid themselves of the burden of their children's support weakens all parental and domestic ties, saps the foundation of morality, and stops all progress in the mental and moral culture of the children." "That the girls are prevented, by their early removal from home and the day-schools to be employed in labour, from learning needlework, and from acquiring those habits of cleanliness, neatness, and order, without which they cannot, when they grow up to womanhood, economise their husbands' earnings, or give to their homes any degree of comfort; and this general want of the qualifications of a housewife in the women of this class is stated by clergymen, teachers, medical men, employers, and other witnesses, to be one great and universally prevailing cause of distress and crime among the working classes?" "Did night work affect your health?" "Yes, it is the worst part of our trade. I
 648 "What is your opinion of night work?"—"It is my opinion that night work is the greatest injury both to the children and printers; night work ought to be stopped." "The working by gas injures the eyes. … More affected at morning after working by night, than in the night after working by daylight." "Children always look pale and sickly when they have been working night and day." "Night work is doubly distressing on this account, where a great quantity of gas is burning in a room badly ventilated, the air is hurtful to breathe, and bad for the constitution. Children of delicate constitutions are obliged, in a long succession of night work, to desist from coming to the shop, otherwise they die off." "When children first come to work, from being robust they will become pallid and weak." "Almost all claesss of witnesses in all the districts concur in stating that the effect of night work is most injurious, physically and morally on the workpeople in general, and on the children in particular." "I consider the unseasonable hours during which young persons are oftentimes employed as unfitting them for any improvement in mind, as well as exceedingly injurious to health." "One general effect is, that when any meeting takes place of an evening for moral and religious purposes, the workpeople seem quite overcome with the effect of having been at work so many hours—voung persons especially." "No countervailing advantage is ultimately obtained from it even by the employers." "In working in the night it is generally considered that more work is spoiled than in the day; and an abatement is made for bad work." "I do not like the principle of night work; there is danger of fire, and a necessity for a double set of superintendents. The work done is much worse." 649 "The great majority of printers would not object to a prohibition of night work for children and young persons." "Is very strongly of opinion that over hours are injurious both to workmen and employers." "Considers that a law reducing and regulating hours of work in printfields, would put all on a footing, and so would soon produce no inconvenience." "I have been favoured by an influential house with an inspection of those books which show rates of production in their roller printing machines, during a period of four months, when they worked fifteen hours a day. … The proportion of spoiled work from the beginning of the first to the end of the fourth month, actually doubled itself; whilst the average production of the machines decreased from 100 to 90 per cent. In fact, the amount of spoiled work increased to such an alarming degree, that the parties referred to felt themselves compelled to shorten the hours of labour to avoid loss; and as soon as the alteration was made, the amount of spoiled work sank to its former level." "The general experience of this branch of trade is, that under whatever circumstances night work is tried, the produce is distinguished by a larger share than ordinary of spoiled work." "So far as we are concerned at Mayfield, it would be advisable to give up night work for young women, young persons, and children, night work being understood as those hours between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m." "I allude only to Messrs. Thompson's works. There may be other printers who may be unable to adopt such regulations." 650 "One of the chief points for observation is the carelessness of the parents as to the future welfare of their offspring, as shown by depriving them of the advantages of education. This they invariably do without reference to their ample means of supporting them." 651 "The sole wish of parents examined by him to be to make all they could of their children at as early an age as possible, without regarding their future welfare." "Parents will not avail themselves of the many facilities afforded in that district for the education of their children; they will not send them to school." "That the evidence of all witnesses shows that when trade improves fewer children will remain in school, and that sensual gratifications are far oftener the obstruction to education than poverty." "That the earnings of the population in the neighbourhood of Oldham in prosperous times are amply sufficient to enable parents to pay for their children's education, but they will take nothing but Sunday school instruction, because it does not interfere with work, and costs nothing." "Many of the parents are utterly indifferent to the moral and physical welfare of their offspring; and it would be a serious error to mistake this indifference for desperation arising from distress and misery." "That in the best of times, when, in Birmingham for example, many mechanics were earning from 2 l. l. l. 652 653 654 Law Magazine "Murders, and attempts to murder and maim, have increased 38 per cent. on the average of the last four years; rapes, 57 per cent.; other horrid offences, 53 per cent. Arsons, which exhibit malice in its worst shape, have increased by 28 per cent.; and if those, of the present year were taken into account, the increase would be far greater." 655 "Oh gracious God! how far have we Profaned thy heavenly gift of Poesy; Made prostitute and profligate the Muse, Debased to each obscene and impious use, Whose harmony was first ordained above, For tongues of angels, and for hymns of love." 656
 Mr. B. Escott  rose to order. The House should have the whole or none of the proceedings of the Committee. The course of the hon. Member was most unfair and disorderly, to state the opinion of an hon. Member of a Secret Committee on one particular fact on which he is commenting, which fact took place before the Secret Committee when the House had no opportunity whatever, and no power whatever, of ascertaining all the other facts bearing on the particular instance of propriety, or impropriety, which he is quoting to the House; and when the House had no power whatever of examining all the evidence given before the Committee, it was not a proper course to pursue.
 Mr. Speaker : The hon. Member has applied expressions to another Member of this House, which, I am sure on reflection, he will be glad to explain.
 Mr. Sergeant Murphy  said, it was not his intention to approach the consideration of this question in an acrimonious or party spirit. Before he came down to the House he had had an opportunity of perusing the Report of the Committee—he had since perused it carefully and with attention, and the effect of that Report upon his mind was, that this privilege was useless for the well-being of a Government, and ought to be abandoned for the safety and honour of the country. That was the impression which an attentive perusal of the Report produced upon his mind, and he should now calmly and dispassionately, and free from any acrimonious feeling, lay before the House the reasons which had induced him to come to that conclusion. He was certainly surprised that the noble Lord should have felt himself justified in applying to these observations of his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury, when calling for an inquiry in a matter deeply involving his own personal interest, the charge that he was guilty of a prurient curiosity; but more particularly if the noble Lord would look at the Report of the Committee, of which he himself had been the Chairman, he would find that it recited a peculiar statement which he begged to impress upon the House, not as a justification merely of his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury, in demanding, in satisfaction of his own personal feelings, that an answer should be openly and tangibly given to his demand,
 722 "In 1735, complaint being made in the House of Commons by certain of the Members that their letters had been opened and read by the clerks of the Post Office, on the pretence of ascertaining whether or no the franks of those Members were counterfeited, and a copy of His Majesty's warrant, whereby letters of Members and certain public functionaries were permitted to pass free from postage, being read; it was ordered that the copy of the said warrant be referred to the consideration of a Committee, and that they do examine the matter thereof, and report the same, with their opinions thereon, to the House; and on the Committee making its report the House resolved,  inter alia, 723 724 725
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that he hoped his noble Friend would fix an early day for the second reading of his Bill. The House stood in a very peculiar situation with respect to that subject, after the line of proceeding which had been taken that evening by Her Majesty's Government. He was by no means disposed to say that the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department had exercised an unsound discretion in allowing his noble Friend to lay his Bill before the House. But he confessed he was surprised to find that the right hon. Baronet, who had had the most ample means of inquiring into the subject, and who had had the most favourable opportunities, in the Reports of Commissioners and other documents, for forming a judgment with respect to it—he confessed he was surprised to find that the right hon. Baronet was not prepared to state to the House, upon the part of the Government, what were their views with regard to the proposal of the noble Lord, and what was the course they should take upon the question. It was most important that the intentions of Her Majesty's Government should be made known upon a subject of that nature. If he rightly conjectured from the speech of the right hon. Baronet the intentions of the Government, he had reason to believe that they had made up their minds to resist the proposal of his noble Friend; but, if that were the case, it appeared to
 667 668
 Mr. Warburton  said, that, as a Member of the Committee appointed by the House of Commons, it was in his power to state that a most unreserved communication of all the facts of the case had, as he believed, been made, both by the Members of the present Government and of former Governments. He felt also bound to state, that he concurred with the terms of the paragraph, in the Report of the Committee, that—
 "So far as the criminal warrants go, no suspicion arises that unfairness or partiality has directed their issue. With regard to the other class of warrants, though there have been some few issued by different Administrations that have been in power during the last twenty-two years, in regard to which it is obvious that on a subsequent review of the facts, a difference of opinion might arise, as to the discretion exercised in each particular case, yet your Committee see no reason to doubt that the conduct of the Secretaries of State belonging to each of those Administrations has been guided by no other motive than an anxious desire to preserve the public peace, with the maintenance of which they were charged." 735 736
 Mr. Warburton  resumed: He said that his judgment on the facts of the case was already before the Committee, and that opinion was formed upon all the statements brought before them, as well in the case of Mazzini as in any other cases which had been brought under their consideration, Now, Mazzini's was one of those cases in which the Committee reserved to each Member the right of forming an opinion for himself. He exercised that power, and he humbly conceived himself as free to exercise that power as any other Member. This part of the subject, however, was one which he should not pursue any further. It was undoubtedly true that in the course of the present discussion hon. Members of that House had expressed strong and decided opinions as to the facts in Mazzini's case; but he thought it important that they should not state matters as facts within their own cognizance, the knowledge of which they had acquired merely from the statements of Members of Her Majesty's Government. Still the great question on which the House had to decide was this—did they or did they not think it expedient to grant the Committee asked for by the hon. Member for Finsbury? Now he, as a Member of the former Committee, must be permitted to say that he thought they
 737
 Mr. Hume  expressed his satisfaction at the statement of the right hon. Baronet; but he regretted the right hon. Baronet had allowed the Bill to be introduced. He feared it was only raising hopes that could not be realised, and encouraging people to meddle in other people's affairs, with which they had nothing to do. He felt every admiration for the noble Lord's desire to improve the condition of the people; but advised him to turn his attention to the state of the agricultural labourers, who were worse off than all the rest. He regretted that the noble Lord had, on the former occasion, succeeded with his measure; for all interference for the regulation of labour was mischievous to those whom it was intended to benefit. If the people were compelled to labour, if they were the servants of taskmasters, who could order them to work at any time, in season or out of season, the case would be different. But the English artisan might work for whomever he pleased, and on whatever agreement he liked as to the hours of his labour. He was at liberty to come away when he pleased. The same was the case with the children. He admitted, that individual acts of cruelty might take place, but, looking to the whole people, he depended much on the natural instincts of humanity, and
 661 "Common Sense Truths, proposed for the consideration of the Working Classes, addressed to philanthropic Gentlemen and to the Lord Bishop of Exeter," 662
 Mr. Hume  said, that nothing could, in his opinion, be fairer than the statement of
 717 718 719
 Mr. Cobden  said, that the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for the Home Department, had stated very accurately the distinction between printworks and factories; and he rose to make a few remarks upon the noble Lord's statement as to calico printers in general. He gave the noble Lord credit upon this occasion for avoiding all invidious personal allusions; but he thought the House would admit that the noble Lord had wandered into other irrelevant cases of demoralization, not having any direct reference to the question before the House. He did not mean to say that persons employed about calico printworks were better than other persons; but surely it must appear invidious that in connexion with this question the noble Lord should have gone into details—such as of the number of men who had been sentenced for murder and arson, and that one unfortunate and wretched woman had burnt her own offspring. He protested against the tendency of this discussion, leading the public to suppose that there was something peculiarly demoralized about the printers of calico. He believed that the character of those people was much the same as that of other workmen The children about whom they were so much concerned worked in a mild temperature, under shelter from the weather, and earned 3 s. s. d. 663
 Mr. Sheil : It was not of the noble Lord I asked the question, but of the Secretary of State. I repeat the interrogatory.
 Mr. Sheil : My observations shall be very short, and I hope very temperate. The right hon. Baronet has unequivocally admitted that the letters addressed to Mr. Mazzini were opened, and that the substance of the information derived from those letters was communicated to a Foreign Power. "The substance of the information," the Report says; and the statement of the right hon. Baronet is more than confirmatory of that Report. The right hon. Gentleman justifies that proceeding. This is not the time to consider whether that proceeding was just or not; for this question is not raised by the present Motion. My hon. Friend (Mr. T. Duncombe) will have the opportunity of raising this question by bringing the subject before the House and the country on another and a more appropriate occasion. But, there stands the broad fact—that letters of Mr. Mazzini were opened; that they were regularly conveyed to him after being opened, is, I believe, not denied; nor is it questioned that Mr. Mazzini was himself unaware that his correspondence had been disclosed. The right hon. Baronet says, that no trap had been laid: but it might
 711 suggestio falsi, suppressio veri "The Committee think it may be desirable for them to make known that the above three warrants are the only warrants to open the letters of foreigners which the present Government has issued." "Your Committee would have abstained from giving particular information concerning any warrant, and from naming a single individual whose letters have been directed to be opened: but for the notice which has been taken of the mode of executing certain warrants, and the mention which has been made of the names of the parties included in certain others, these being the circumstances which have mainly led to the inquiry which your Committee has been appointed to conduct." 712
 Mr. Wallace  was very glad the right hon. Baronet had consented to the introduction of the Bill. At the same time, the arguments used by the right hon. Baronet against it, would, he hoped, impress on the people of England the necessity of making out a good case before the Bill came on for discussion. Certainly the principle applied to all trades. At present he merely rose to say, that at the proper stage he should move to include the bleaching and dyeing trades in the provisions of the measure.
 Mr. T. Duncombe : At the close of the last Session I felt it my duty to give notice that I should early in the present Session call the attention of the House to the unsatisfactory and evasive character of the Report of the Secret Committee on certain iniquities in the Post Office. I regret that it is now my painful duty to carry into execution the notice I then gave; but my consolation is that the fault is not mine. The Report was made at so late a period, that it was impossible for me to direct the attention of the House to it before the adjournment, and it is not my fault that I am compelled to do it now: if the Report had been as full and satisfactory as I think I shall be able to show the Committee had the power of making it, it would not have been necessary for me now to trouble the House. I need hardly remind hon. Members of what occurred when this question was first mooted, further than by saying that I presented a petition from a person of the name of Mazzini, an Italian gentleman, complaining that his letters had been opened. That petition was treated by the Secretary of State almost with indifference, and he declined giving any information on the subject to which it referred, beyond stating that he certainly had opened the letters of one of the individuals to whom the petition related. He refused, however, to say which of the petitioners' letters he had opened, and also declined to tell us when the warrant had been issued. Afterwards I presented another petition from Captain Stolzman, a distinguished officer in the Polish service; but the right hon. Baronet refused any explanation with reference to that petition. I then moved that the petition should be referred to a Select Committee, and that Motion was supported by 164 Members, and resisted by 208, so that it was lost by a majority of 44, the Government influence having been used to stifle all inquiry. On the 2nd of July I moved for the appointment of a Select Committee, to inquire into the conduct of the department of the Post Office, commonly called
 669 670 671 672 673 674 675 * * Post, 676 "Representations had been made to the British Government from high sources, that plots, of which Mr. Mazzini was the centre, were carrying on, upon British territory, to excite an insurrection in Italy: and that such insurrection, should it assume a formidable aspect, would, from peculiar political circumstances, disturb the peace of Europe." "The British Government, considering the extent to which British interests were involved in the maintenance of that peace, issued, on their own judgment, but not at the suggestion
 677 "Such information deduced from those letters as appeared to the British Government calculated to frustrate this attempt, was communicated to a Foreign Power; but the information so communicated was not of a nature to compromise—and did not compromise—the safety of any individual within the reach of that Foreign Power." "Certain parts of the information thus obtained were communicated to a Foreign Government, in so far as such a communication appeared to be warranted; but without the names or details that might expose any individual then residing in the foreign country to which the information was transmitted, to danger." 678 "The Bandieras and their seven companions died calm and intrepid, bearing witness of their faith, as becomes men who die for the
 679 "'If we have success,' they wrote to me in their last letter on the 11th of June, hasten to join us! If we fall, tell our countrymen to imitate our example; for life has been given us to employ nobly and usefully, and the cause for which we shall have fought and died is the purest, the holiest, that ever warmed the breasts of men; it is the cause of liberty, of equality, of humanity, of the independence and unity of Italy.' Such are the men against whom your Government has leagued itself with Austria and the King of Naples." 680 "A warrant to open and detain all letters addressed to M. Worcell and to M. Stolzman was issued on the 17th of April, 1844, and cancelled on the 20th of June." "A warrant to open and detain all letters addressed to M. Grodicki at Paris, and to another foreign gentleman, was issued on the 3rd of June, 1844, and cancelled on the 13th of the same month. 681 "The last two warrants rested on grounds connected with the personal safety of a Foreign Sovereign, entrusted to the protection of England. It appears to your Committee that, under circumstances so peculiar, even a slight suspicion of danger would justify a Minister in taking extraordinary measures of precaution. The Committee have not learned that there appeared in the letters that were detained anything to criminate the gentlemen whom the Committee have very reluctantly named." 682 683 "On the subject of the Foreign Department
 684 "Of this they are satisfied, that no such warrants or practices now exist; and that public as well as private correspondence, foreign as well as domestic, passing through the Office in regular course, now enjoys complete security, subject only to the contingency of a Secretary of State's warrant, directed for special reasons against a particular letter or letters." "It appears to have for a long period of time, and under many successive administrations, been an established practice, that the foreign correspondence of Foreign Ministers, passing through the General Post Office, should be sent to a Department of the Foreign Office, before the forwarding of such correspondence according to its address. The Postmaster General having had his attention called to the fact, that there was no sufficient authority for this practice, has, since June, discontinued it altogether." 685 "The Lord Keeper signified to the House, 'that the Venetian Ambassador made a complaint to the Lords of the Council, that the despatches which were sent to him this week were opened, and the seal of the State of Venice broken open by the Parliament, whereby he accounts himself much grieved with it, and for this he hath retired himself from the public affairs, as an Ambassador between this Kingdom and that State, until he receives further command from his masters.' Then was read a paper, being a translation out of Italian, delivered from the Venetian Ambassador. The contents was this, videlicet, 'Most noble Lords, the correspondency betwixt princes there hath always been the most immediate ways of a true interest of maintaining of estates, and of continuance of commerce to the benefit and increase of the Commonwealth. To cultivate this, the most great Kings hath always used the most industry; and to facilitate it, they have introduced the expedition of Ambassadors to confirm it betwixt the one and the other kingdom. In this there hath been all respect rendered to all princes even in all times, not only having made the large prerogatives and liberties, and the very same (as I may say) the very princes and patrons possessing the same dominions amongst the remarkable and equally necessary; and that by which we may receive letters, and send from the proper prince, and whatsoever person, without any interruption, which is the most principal part of an Ambassador; which practice, most noble Sirs, is not the laws of our nation alone, but universal, and hath been maintained and inviolated of the king and the public, and of all Christian governments, no less than amongst the most barbarous. I nevertheless cannot say but that I have enjoyed in this great Court that just respect,
 686 "This House thought it fit, and agreed, that satisfaction for this shall be given to the State of Venice, and to the Ambassador for the present. The House appointed the Earl of Bristoll, Earl of Holland, Lord Viscount Say and Seal, the Lord Digby, and the Lord Newnham, to draw up presently what was fit to be given by way of answer to the Venetian Ambassador; and their Lordships presented a draught unto the House, which was read in  hœc verbâ, 687 "During the outbreak in the manufacturing and mining districts, which took place in August, 1842, in the week of the greatest anxiety, a clerk was sent down from the London Post Office, with directions, under the authority of
 688 "About the same time, two clerks were sent down to two provincial towns, esch with directions under authority of a Secretary of State's warrant, to open and examine the letters addressed to one individaal in each town: but in one of these cases there were no letters to open. One clerk employed on this duty returned to his ordinary business after a week's absence, the other after an absence of five weeks." 689 "In the autumn of 1843, during the disturbances which took place in South Wales, two clerks were sent down from the Post Office into the disturbed districts, with directions, under authority of a warrant from the Secretary of State — one to inspect the letters of one person at a particular town, the other to inspect the letters of another person at another town; and, subsequently, under authority of a different warrant, this second clerk was sent to a third town, there to inspect the letters of a third person. In all three instances, the persons whose letters were to be inspected, were specifically named in the warrant. One of these warrants was in force eighteen, the other seven days. It is these facts, probably, that have given rise to the report of a Commission or Commissions having visited the manufacturing districts, charged with a general authority to open and inspect letters." "Your Committee will here notice a statement which has been made, that instances have occurred of sending entire mail bags with letters to the Home Office for examination. Your Committee are satisfied that no instance of the kind has occurred." "None but separate letters or packets are ever sent, out of the ordinary course, from
 690 691
 Mr. T. Duncombe : I applied the expressions to the right hon. Gentleman in his Ministerial capacity, and in that alone, and to these remarks I adhere, and so they shall remain. The Committee have not reported on this point, although I called upon them to do so, and I made this charge in the room up stairs, and they have been perfectly and entirely silent as to what inferences they had drawn on the subject. The only inference which I can draw is this, that they did not like to do me an act of justice—not even to the extent that they did to these Polish gentlemen—by saying that they had not learned that there appeared in the letters which had been detained anything to criminate them—they have not done me even the same extent of justice, small as it is.
 692 Morning Herald; "There are some offences of which it is so dishonourable even to be suspected, that it is real kindness to give a person who labours
 693 Herald. "With an indelible and eternal mark of infamy and dishonour." Morning Herald, "To open the letters of a Member of Parliament—of a man entrusted by the people with the solemn charge of their interests—is clearly a high crime and misdemeanour against the constitution; it is a measure so violent and extreme that nothing short of an extreme case of danger or suspicion could possibly justify it." Morning Herald, 694 "With regard to the utility of such warrants, for the detection of seditious conspiracies, or other practices endangering the public safety, or the discovery of the views entertained by those who engage in them, it would be unreasonable to deny that, in certain cases, this practice may have aided the Executive Government in various ways." "And, amongst others which are more obvious, by informing them of the real strength of the conspirators and extent of their combinations, and thus preventing the Ministers of the time from taking exaggerated views of the force arrayed against the State, and claiming extraordinary powers to meet apprehended danger." "Still, however, the argument derived from the smallness of the number of warrants as compared with the number of persons who may be supposed to entertain such criminal designs, is not to be lost sight of." 695 "While, on the other hand, it must be admitted that the number of those to whom this class of warrants would apply, as being the chosen leaders of multitudes, would not be very great." "The warrants of this class have amounted, on the average, to little more than two a year, which would extend to little more than four persons. The greatest number of warrants of this description issued in any year within the present century, is about sixteen, extending in these cases to between forty or fifty persons. In addition to the argument derived from the smallness of the number affected, it must not be forgotten that, after the publicity given to the fact that the Secretary of State has occasionally recourse to the opening of letters as a means of defence in dangerous and difficult times, few who hereafter may engage in dangerous designs will venture to communicate their intentions by the medium of the post." "And the importance of retaining the power, as a measure of detective police, will consequently be greatly diminished." "The last argument, however, supposes, that there is no absolute certainty that a letter may not be intercepted; and it may appear to some that to leave it a mystery whether or no this power is ever exercised is the way best calculated to deter the evil-minded from applying the post to improper uses." "It must also be remembered that if such a power as this were formally abolished, the question would not be left quite in the same condition as though the power had never been exercised or disputed." "By withdrawing it, every criminal and conspirator against the public peace would be publicly assured that he should enjoy secure possession of the easiest, cheapest, and most unobserved channel of communication, and that the Secretary of State would not, under any circumstances, interfere with his correspondence." 696 "It must not be forgotten, however, that at present other rapid means of communicating their views are of easy access to the evil-intentioned, and that, as far as internal order is concerned, the same rapid means afford the Government unexampled facilities for suppressing tumult." "Under these circumstances, it will be for Parliament to consider whether they will determine upon any legislative regulation, or whether they will prefer leaving the power on its present footing, in point of law, in the hands of the Secretary of State, to be used, on his responsibility, in those cases of emergency in which, according to the best of his judgment, its exercise would be sanctioned by an enlightened public opinion, and would appear to be strongly called for by important public interests." 697 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the mode in which letters have been detained, opened, and re-sealed, at the General or at any Provincial Post Office; and also into the circumstances under which every Warrant for that purpose has been issued by any Secretary of State, from the 1st day of January, 1840, to the present time; the said Committee to report their opinion thereon to the House, and also whether it is expedient that the practice should be continued."
 Mr. Wakley  said, that as an act of political civility to the noble Lord, the right hon. Gentleman had determined that the noble Lord should bring in his Bill; but he thought it was quite clear that it was the intention of the right hon. Gentleman strenuously to oppose the second reading of the Bill. [Sir  J. Graham: 664 665 666
 Mr. Wakley  remarked, that the hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat had informed them that they were indebted
 738 J. Graham: J, Graham:
 Mr. Wakley  continued: Then it was substantially founded on the Statute made in the reign of Queen Anne. The right hon. Gentleman, in the statement that he made formerly to the House, stated as the foundation—as that which justified him in opening letters, the Statute of Anne. That was the foundation—that was the original source from which he derived his authority. But then the hon. Member for Kendal stated that there was no authority to be found in ancient usage. Then the right hon. Gentleman stated what was in his opinion the foundation of his authority. He thought that in such a debate this was a point with respect to which there ought to be neither doubt nor mystery. They ought to have a distinct acknowledgment from the right hon. Gentleman as to the source of his authority with regard to the opening of letters. He understood the right hon. Gentleman to state that his authority was the Statute of Anne. In the course of the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, he remarked upon the constitution of the Committee of the House of Lords—he spoke in the highest terms of praise of the great legal ability which was to be found on that Committee. Looking then to the legal knowledge of the Members of that Committee of the House of Lords—yielding obedience to them as an authority—let them see what that Committee said as to
 739 "In letting to farm the Post Office to individuals, and in proclamation of the 25th of May, 1663, and 25th August, 1683, the power is distinctly claimed and reserved. The terms in which the provisions of the Act, 9 Anne, cap. 10, upon this subject, are enacted, can only be explained upon the supposition that this power was at the time fully recognised, for that Act gives no power to the Secretary of State to detain or open letters, but prohibits others from doing so, except by an express warrant in writing, under the hand of the Principal Secretary, for every such opening or detaining." 740 741 742 743 Cries of 744 "A warrant to open and detain all letters addressed to Mr. Worcell and to Mr. Stolzman was issued on the 17th of April, 1844, and cancelled on the 20th of June. A warrant to open and detain all letters addressed to Mr. Grodicki at Paris, and to another foreign gentleman, was issued on the 3rd June, 1844, and cancelled on the 18th of the same month." "The last two warrants rested on grounds connected with the personal safety of a Foreign Sovereign, entrusted to the protection of England." "It appears to your Committee that, under
 745
 Mr. M. Philips  thought it was a matter of the greatest importance that this question should be divested of everything like error. And when he heard the hon. Member speak of 25,000 children being hired in the manner he had described, he must enter his protest against any such statement. It must be remembered that a great part of those children were brought forward by their own parents, and were not sought for by the manufacturers. In the operations of factories some work required to be performed by manual labour, and when assistance was required by the workmen, they to a very great extent brought their own children in to do it. If, then, the operative parents of this country placed their own children in the factories, were the masters to be called slave drivers? It was the greatest libel he had ever heard on the manufacturers of this country.
 Sir J. Graham  rose and said: I rise, Sir, under great disadvantage to follow the hon. Member who has just sat down, and to address the House upon the question before it; for although in my own judgment and conscience I feel a strong conviction that I have done nothing in the execution of my public duty of which any public servant or gentleman can be ashamed, yet the topic now under discussion is one for which I feel that in the mind of the British public there is naturally existing a strong prejudice against the public servant who has to discharge this particular function; and also I am aware that I am addressing a body of gentlemen of the United Kingdom in whose bosoms there must be a feeling which, in their generous nature, makes the execution of this duty repulsive to them, which, as a
 698 699 700 701 "The general conclusion which the Committee draw from the Returns before abstracted is, that in equal intervals of time, these warrants have been issued in nearly equal number, by the several Administrations which have been in power from the commencement of 1799 until now. For although in certain years, in consequence of internal commotion, it happened that the number of warrants, issued by certain Secretaries of State, was unusually great, yet in other years, if they continued sufficiently long in office, the number of warrants they issued for similar purposes proved to be unusually small; so that the annual average of all the warrants they issued, during the whole period of their continuance in office, did not rise materially above the general annual mean." "The warrants of this class have amounted on the average to little more than two a year, which would extend to little more than four
 702 703 "We are bound, in conclusion, to state, that having looked back into the practice under several Secretaries of State during successive Administrations, for move than twenty years, we have found that the practice has been nearly uniform, and that the power has been very sparingly exercised, and never from party or personal motives." "In every case we have investigated, the exercise of it seems to have been directed by an earnest and faithful desire to adopt the course which appeared to be necessary to promote the ends of public justice, or to prevent disturbance of public tranquillity, or otherwise to promote the best interests of the country." "This Establishment is connected with the Department of the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs; it is conducted by officers paid and appointed by him, from whom alone they receive their orders, and to whom alone they are responsible." 704 "It is true that Mr. Mazzini's letters were stopped and opened for about four months, under the warrant of the Secretary of State for the Home Department." 705 706 "Such information deduced from those letters as appeared to the British Government calculated to frustrate this attempt, was communicated to a Foreign Power; but the information so communicated was not of a nature to compromise, and did not compromise, the safety of any individual within the reach of that Foreign Power; nor was it made known to that Fower by what means or from what source that information had been obtained." "Certain parts of the information thus obtained were communicated to a Foreign Government, in so far as such a communication appeared to be warranted, but without the names or details that might expose any individual then residing in the foreign country to which the information was transmitted to danger." T. Duncombe 707 708 guardo urbano, posse comitatus 709 710
 Sir J. Graham : It has fallen to my lot, on previous occasions, to oppose the noble Lord in discussions similar to the present; but, though I have been unfortunately opposed to him, I have always been ready to acknowledge the purity of his motives, the singleness of his purpose, the honesty with which he endeavours to obtain the great object he has in view, and also the touching eloquence with which he enforces his views. My noble Friend seemed to think it necessary for him to apologize for the want of novelty in the subject; but where the intention of the advocate of any particular question is fair, and his object is to aid, as he believes, in the moral and physical amelioration of his fellow-subjects, the want of novelty is no fault. Another reason why my noble Friend need not apologize for again introducing this subject to the House is the vast number of persons—no fewer than 25,000—connected with one of our staple manufactures—who are affected by the measure proposed. But my noble Friend has also coupled with the considerations which this fact suggests, others well worthy of our mature deliberation; he has referred to facts which I fear cannot be contradicted—facts of the most grave importance connected with the state of crime. My noble Friend urges us to consider both the moral and the physical condition of the working classes of this country. Doubtless, as regards the moral condition of the people, the considerations he urged were of the greatest importance; but I was glad to observe that my noble Friend did not overlook their physical condition. And when we consider the rapidily increasing population of the country, the increased supply of labour, and the competition consequent on it, as well as the consequences of that increase and of that competition on the physical condition of the people,—I am not, at the same time, undervaluing the importance of their moral condition, and of education in connexion with it,—I say when we look at these things, it behoves us, and especially the Government, to be extremely cautious how we deal with any subject materially affecting the physical condition of a large portion of the community, and naturally and intimately connected with their means of employment. My noble Friend has made many admissions on the subject which appear
 657 658 659 660
 Sir. J. Graham : It was exercised on the authority of the Statute, introduced in the reign of Queen Anne, subsequently adopted, confirmed, and enlarged by other statutes.
 Sir J. Graham  said: Perhaps the House will permit me again to address it for one moment, as I should be extremely unwilling to treat with disrespect the question of the right hon. Gentleman, which he put to me in so pointed a manner. I should before have replied to it, but I thought it better to wait till my noble Friend the Member for Liverpool had addressed the House, as my noble Friend filled the office of Chairman of the Secret Committee. The House will recollect that in the last Session of Parliament, when this subject was first brought forward, I said that I did not think it would be consistent with my duty to answer the questions which were put to me with respect to the warrants that had been issued; but that I said I was perfectly willing that the House should appoint a tribunal to investigate the matter elsewhere; and I added that if Her Majesty would give me Her gracious permission, I would give to such a tribunal every information that I possessed upon the subject. It was the pleasure of the House to appoint a Secret Committee. As I said before, that Committee was so constituted that the majority were politically my opponents; but I repeat that there was not one atom of the power which I exercised, and for which I am responsible, that I did not fully and in detail lay before that Committee. Now I must adhere to the line which, on reflection, I laid down for myself last Session, and I cannot consistently with my duty answer the question which has been put to me. The hon. Member's name has not been alluded to by the Committee in their Report. In the case of Mazzini and the other Poles, the House will see that there was this difference, viz.,—that they were mentioned in the Report; and therefore without any departure from my sense of duty I thought myself perfectly at liberty to discuss the question of the warrant which was issued against them. If it had been the pleasure of the Committee to have brought before Parliament and the country any other warrant, I repeat that with equal firmness I should have been prepared to vindicate the issue of that warrant, as I have done in the case of Mazzini and Grodicki.
 Sir John Hanmer  said, it did not appear to him that there was any accusation then justly resting against the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department. That right hon. Gentleman, in the last Session of Parliament, exercising a discretion with which he did not altogether agree—had thought proper, instead of waiting to take the commands of his Sovereign, and acquiring the power to make a communication, to resist the inquiries of the House. He did not agree with the right hon. Baronet upon that occasion, and he thought it one on which it befitted the House to resist the refusal to afford information. It was the duty of the House of Commons to insist upon the responsibility of Ministers of the Crown; and he (Sir J. Hanmer), although he had never entertained harsh, ungenerous, or unjust feelings towards the right hon. Gentleman, was not disposed to yield the constitutional right of Parliament to any of those vague notions of confidence which were sometimes appealed to when Gentlemen in office were at a loss for better reasons. On this ground he voted last year that inquiry should be made. It pleased the House of Commons to appoint a Secret Committee; and every Member would agree, that men of more authority, or weight, or character, could not have been appointed. The Committee met, and the right hon. Baronet had stated, in a manner admitting of no question or doubt, that before that Committee he gave every information it was in his power to afford. In the exercise of their discretion the Committee made a certain Report; and he confessed that when he came down to the House he was of opinion, perhaps, in some degree, forgetting what had taken place last year, that the matter related principally, or even altogether, to the Polish gentlemen, and Mr. Mazzini; and he did not agree, after carefully
 720 721
 Sir R. Peel  said: I apprehend that the question to which the hon. and learned Gentleman has just adverted is not the question before the House. A great part of the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman was occupied with a discussion of the question, whether it be desirable or not that a power should be continued to the Secretary of State, at his discretion, by the issue of a warrant upon his responsibility, to direct the opening of letters. The discussion of that question, which is not now before the House, would be much
 726 727 728 A laugh 729 "The disturbances in this neighbourhood have indeed assumed a very serious aspect, and what is to be the end of them I know not. That a general feeling of discontent with the present state of things, worked upon most industriously by designing men, of which we have too many amongst us, is at the bottom of what is passing, there can be no doubt; but I regret to say, that some mistaken and rather arbitrary proceedings on the part of
 730 "You are aware that if the colliers do not go to work again immediately, from 20,000 to 30,000 potters must be thrown out of employment, and I am sorry to say that many of them are quite as ill-disposed and as ripe for mischief as their neighbours.…. There are now 10,000 potters of all grades out, and by the week's end the number will be 20,000. Only think what a state we shall be in! And how we shall stand our ground, or the neighbourhood be kept in peace, I know not… As I have usually thirty or forty servants, &c. within a minute's call, I dare say I shall be able to protect myself." 731 "Who," said the hon. Member, "were more liable than they to the destruction of their property? Children had been instructed to destroy the spinning machines with knitting needles, and a box of lucifers could destroy the greatest amount of manufacturing capital. … He would tell the Government that there was danger of dire confusion." 732 733 "The Committee are bound, in conclusion, to state, that having looked back to the proceedings of several Secretaries of State during successive Administrations more than twenty years, they have found the practice has been nearly uniform, that the power has been very sparingly exercised, and never from personal or party motives, and that in every case investigated it seems to have been directed by an earnest and faithful desire to adopt that course which appeared to be necessary, either to promote the ends of justice, or to prevent a disturbance of the public tranquillity, or otherwise to promote the best interests of the country." 734
 Viscount Sandon  said, that as the Secretary of State appealed to did not apparently
 713 714 715 716
 Viscount Sandon  said, that having been speaking to an hon. Gentleman behind him when the right hon. Gentleman opposite closed his address, he had not heard the question. Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman would repeat it.
 Sir John Tyrrell  believed that the observations which had fallen from him the other night had in some degree led to the present discussion, and to the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Bath. No hon. Member would regret the gladiatorial exhibition of eloquence by the two hon. and learned Gentlemen on the present occasion. He had no hesitation in saying that he agreed with the views expressed by the hon. and learned Member for Bath; and although he (Sir J. Tyrrell) did not in his own person exhibit an instance of agricultural distress, yet it would be conceded to him that such distress did prevail; and Gentlemen would agree with him that distress was in the habit of making men acquainted with strange bedfellows. He would take the opportunity, therefore, of explaining how it happened that on this occasion he should be found associated with the hon. Member for Bath. He was aware that there were many who were ill inclined to support a Motion of that hon. Gentleman, because he Was supposed to entertain extreme opinions; but he for one, and he believed others connected with the landed interest, was ready on this occasion, in the eloquent words of the hon. Member for Bath, to pluck up courage and to vote with him. He trusted that no friends of his, in the nautical phrase, would be found "to 'bout ship," but that their names would be seen in the right place in the Division List to-morrow morning. The right hon. Member for Dungarvon had contended against the Motion, not merely on the ground of abstract justice to Ireland, but because it would be a breach of faith to adopt it; inasmuch as it was in opposition to the provisions of the Act of Union. He (Sir J. Tyrrell) took a very opposite view of the nature of that Act: he recollected, and perhaps others would not have forgotten, when the late Mr. Bankes (father of the present Member for Dorsetshire), in bringing forward the question of extending the Property and Income Tax to Ireland, required the Clerk at the Table to read the 7th Article of
 766 unjust, Morning Post. "It hardly could be contended that if a Property Tax were established, Ireland ought to be exempted from its operation; he wished to see Ireland as much favoured as possible, consistently with justice; but to impose a Property Tax on England and Scotland, and to exempt Ireland, would, in his opinion, however unpopular that opinion might be, be extremely unjust." 767 "Hereditary bondsmen, know ye not Who would be free himself must strike the blow?" 768
 Mr. Newdigate  regretted that some of the elder county Members who had been assailed by the hon. and learned Member for Bath had not stood forward to vindicate their characters from the foul calumnies and libels that had been heaped upon them by the hon. and learned Member for Bath. ( Cries of and
 Mr. Newdigate  begged to apologise if he had used any expression that could be deemed improper or disrespectful to the House; but he thought the House would
 780 781
 Colonel Conolly  begged leave to offer a few remarks in explanation. He deplored most exceedingly the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman, and he regretted that any remarks that he might have made should appear to countenance its introduction. He had referred to the Income Tax in England having given a boon to proprietors in his own country, in enabling them to borrow money to clear off encumbrances on their estates at 2 per cent. less than they had previously paid. But, instead of this advantage of 2 per cent. to them, the Motion of the hon. and
 786
 Mr. George Smythe  wished to ask a question of the First Lord of the Treasury, which was of importance to a large class of persons. It was, whether it was the intention of the Government only to reduce, or altogether to take off, the duty on Sperm Oil.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, it would be better to postpone the six Consolidation Bills regarding railway affairs, of which he had given notice, and to take them on Friday, at twelve o'clock.
 Mr. C. Buller  rose to order. He thought "foul calumnies" was not a phrase which ought to be used by one hon. Member towards another.
 Mr. Newdegate  rose to explain. He had not used any terms expressive of an opinion that the reasoning of the hon. and learned Member for Bath was insignificant. The opinion which he had expressed, and to which he still adhered, was, that his Motion was mischievous.
 Colonel Sibthorp  should feel it his duty to support the Motion of the hon. Member for Bath; and he had no hesitation in coming to this conclusion, as the right hon. Baronet would not distinctly and unequivocally affirm that in three years the tax should cease. Why were they to make an exception in favour of Ireland? No man felt more sensibly than he did for Ireland;
 811
 Mr. Ross  would not say anything at present upon the proposal to tax incomes in Ireland arising from official employment. At first sight it appeared reasonable enough,
 773 774
 Mr. Sergeant Murphy  did not rise to address the House, because he in the least anticipated that the proposal of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Bath would be acceded to. If his mere object in attending the debate were the delight to be derived from the exhibition of eloquence—from listening to the caustic satire of the hon. Member for Bath, or the luminous epigrammatic force of his right hon. Friend the Member for Dungarvon, he might have been amply gratified. There was one speech, however, which possessed a higher excellence than either, and that was the speech of the hon. Representative of the agriculturists of Essex (Sir J. Tyrell.) While he admired the incongruous combination that had been entered into between the hon. Member for Bath and the hon. Baronet, he must be allowed to award the palm of excellence to the speech of the latter hon. Member (Sir J. Tyrell.) To that hon. Gentleman he would apply the remarks that the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government applied to the hon. Mover of the Address to Her Majesty at the commencement of this Session. The right hon. Baronet then said,—
 "My hon. Friend who has spoken to-night I trust will remember what he has accomplished; and when he has met with the general approbation of all parties, he must not forget that he has acquired responsibility by his success. He has a long and I trust an honourable career before him. He has proved this day that he has the ability of distinguishing himself in the public service; and, unless he avails himself of those opportunities of exertion and distinction which he can command, he will greatly disappoint the hopes formed respecting him by the evidence he has given of great ability, great moderation, great judgment, and great discretion." "—gregem viridi compellere hibisco." 804 "Who drives fat cattle should himself be fat!" 805 pro con 806 "— per ignes Suppositos cineri doloso?"
 Mr. Darby  said he would state the grounds on which he would give his vote in distinct opposition to the hon. Member for Bath. That hon. Member seemed little to understand the matter. His motion was inconsistent with his speech. Whatever might be his own views as to the continuance of the Property Tax in this country, it certainly would not at this moment, in his opinion, be paying a due regard to good policy, or to the interests of all classes, to lay that tax upon Ireland. At the present moment to extend that tax to Ireland would be highly impolitic.
 Mr. Muntz  was not at all surprised that Irish gentlemen should strongly object to having the Income Tax imposed on them; but he did not understand why there should be a difference made between that and the other parts of the country. He could not understand on what principle the people of Ireland were to have a large remission of taxation made to them, and not to give anything in return. He agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Bath in his present proposition, and he thought that, next to an absentee tax, the Property Tax was the best tax that could be imposed on Ireland.
 Sir H. Winston Barron  said, that the hon. and learned Member for Bath had not attempted to point out any ground for imposing this tax on the people of Ireland for the first time. In the face of that House, he would tell the hon. Member that he should have abstained from making those observations respecting certain absent Members which he had indulged in. The hon. Member had chosen to talk of the "personal insignificance" of those absent Members; it showed his gross ignorance and presumption to talk of those Gentlemen in the way he would not have dared to have done if they had been present. He repeated that the hon. Member would not have dared to have said what he did; and he (Sir Winston Barron) would leave the country to judge of a man who would not say that in the presence of those Gentlemen, which he had dared to say in their absence.
 Sir H. W. Barron : I am not aware that they are. I mean, that I think there is nothing unparliamentary in what I said.
 Sir H. W. Barron  rose to explain. He had made no such observation with regard
 816
 Sir H. W. Barron  was always ready to how to the Chair. The hon. and learned Member for Bath had alluded to the taxation of Ireland, but in a manner showing the grossest ignorance of the question of which he was talking. He had spoken as if the landlords of Ireland were men who paid no part of the taxation of this country, or of the revenues of the State. Was he aware, that at the time of the Union, the English debt was 450,000,000 l., l.; l. l. l, l. 783 l. l.; l.; ne plus ultra." Hansard. l. l. 784 s. s., 785
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said it would be quite impossible to grant the Return, as the surcharges were made by the local assessors, and no record was kept by the Commissioners.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said it was impossible for him, holding the situation which he had the honour to fill, to permit the subject then before the House to pass without expressing his feelings respecting it. Whatever credit he might be disposed to concede to the hon. and learned Gentleman who had introduced that Motion for general talents and ability, he could not allow him much credit for tact in conciliating support, or for skill in estimating the value of financial measures. The hon. and learned Gentleman had made appeals of very different character to different portions of the House. He had appealed to the feelings of hon. Gentlemen on his (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) right, on the ground that, by imposing a Property Tax on Ireland, they would be enabled to afford relief to themselves, and to those whose interests they represented in that House. That appeal had been met in a proper spirit by the hon. Member for Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate), in a spirit in which, he was sure, it would be met by the great majority of those whom it was intended to influence. He did not think it right to increase the taxation of Ireland; and, if he were right—as he trusted he would be able to show he was—in that view of the matter, then he did not believe there was one hon. Gentleman on that side of the House who would be actuated, in a case of that nature, by so low a motive as that of imposing a tax on the sister country—a tax calculated to produce
 787 d. d. 788 Roebuck: 789 790 791 792 793
 Mr. Curteis  was opposed to all Property and Income Tax, and he could not, therefore, vote for the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Bath. He thought that a Property and Income Tax was so great an evil that they ought to be ashamed of themselves if, for any pecuniary consideration, they imposed it upon Ireland. The agricultural interest of England was deeply interested in this question, and he thought the representatives of the landed interest in that House had not done all that they might do in opposing this tax. He was altogether opposed to it, and he thought that if the representatives of the agricultural interest in that House were not shackled with party ties, they would take his view of the case. He did not mean to say that the tax was not a burden upon a variety of interests in this country, but he believed it pressed with greater weight upon the landed interest. These were the sentiments of a large proportion of the landed interest of the country, and he thought it would be a great boon to
 808
 Colonel Rawdon  must oppose the Motion of his hon. and learned Friend; and he did so because he believed that if acceded to, it would materially interfere with, and render problematical, the good Government of the country. The people of Ireland were ready fairly to contribute their portion to meet the exigencies of the country; but in matters of this kind prudential motives of policy should not be lost sight of, and he certainly was of opinion that the Motion of his hon. and learned Friend was characterised in an eminent degree by the absence of any prudential motive. It must be clear to every one, that the hon. and learned Member for Bath was envious because Ireland did not pay every tax that he paid himself. He was of opinion also that that hon. and learned Gentleman had chosen a singular time for wishing to impose this tax upon Ireland. He appeared to have chosen the first moment of prosperity that had dawned upon that country for some time; and he feared that the hon. and learned Member had formed his view of Irish prosperity in great part upon the speech of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Donegal (Colonel Conolly). But his hon. and gallant Friend was, as the House knew, of a rather sanguine temperament—somewhat inclined to view things a little  couleur de rose. 807
 Mr. Roebuck : From his experience in the cross-examination of witnesses he had learnt that when a witness was in a certain state of mind, it was always the best course to let him tell his own story. The hon. Member had just told his. What he had complained of, was not the peculiar phraseology used; he was merely quoting one word which he thought might be considered objectionable. That which he was about to complain of was the use of the word "dare." Now, what did he not dare to do? Dared he not say that these Gentlemen had deserted their post. Like sentinels placed on duty, when danger came, they had thrown down their muskets and run away. Dared he not say that? Dared he not say that in many cases mortified vanity had led to that desertion? That such was the case was his deliberate opinion, and he repeated it. His hon. and learned Friend the Member for Cork had made an appeal to his (Mr. Roebuck's) kind feelings, and the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Dungarvon had also remarked on the peculiarity and strength of the phraseology which he had used. Of whom, he would ask, was he speaking, when he used such phraseology? Of persons careful of their own phraseology towards Gentlemen of that House? He saw the hon. Gentleman the Member for Finsbury in his seat, and also an hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bellew) sitting on one of the back benches, who figured in that day's report of proceedings of the very head of the party of Seceders. The phraseology employed, according to the report of these proceedings, was such as not to conciliate care on his part as to the words he chould use in respect to those Gentlemen. The most dishonourable motives were by those
 817 818 819 820 A laugh.
 Mr. Roebuck : The hon. Gentleman had a perfect right to entertain such an impression of his Motion, and for so doing he (Mr. Roebuck) confessed he had no right to quarrel with him. The hon. Member for Waterford—and his expression was one which he had certainly expected would have been earlier stopped by the Chairman—had made use of an observation at which he had been tempted to laugh, however unparliamentary that might have been. That hon. Gentleman had said, that what he (Mr. Roebuck) had said, in reference to certain absent parties, he would not have dared to say had they been present. The hon. Gentleman was from Ireland, and let the House just mark the way in which he made his observations. He said, that if the Members complained of had been present, he (Mr. Roebuck) would not have dared to complain of their absence.
 Mr. Roebuck  said that if he rightly understood the temper and feeling of the House of Commons, they were to give a man on all occasions fair play. He was then claiming the opportunity of making a reply, which he would not ask, if he did not stand in a peculiar position. That position was, that though many felt with him, very few had spoken with him. He had been, with a slight exception, attacked, he might say, by almost every speaker who had spoken on the question, and by some not altogether in terms that might have been expected on that occasion. Before he sat down, he hoped he should have the opportunity of repaying his friends with interest. The right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government had said that a great change in his opinion had taken place. The right hon. Baronet had commenced official life, he might say, as Secretary for Ireland, and had lived uninterruptedly in office to 1829; and the right hon. Baronet, with all the means of information which he possessed, had then held the same opinion as he himself had that evening expressed. Having left the soft cushion of office, the right hon. Baronet had passed for a time into the cold and dreary region of opposition. After the right hon. Baronet had, with great care and astonishing tact, again collected a great party together, what was his first expression of opinion in this very case? The opinion of the right hon. Baronet in 1833 was the same as he had that evening expressed. In 1835 the right hon. Baronet
 815
 Mr. Roebuck  would only make one observation with respect to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Warwickshire. He would leave it to the House and the country to judge whether the hon. Member had got the best of the argument by his loss of temper.
 Mr. Roebuck  then rose and said,—I
 752 753 754 755 756 Conolly: 757 Sheil: Member: 758 rationale "By heaven, I had rather coin my heart, And drop my blood for drachmas, than to wring From the hard hands of peasants their vile trash By any indirection." 759
 Mr. Hume  said, it appeared to him that many representations had been made by hon. Members, of the bearing of his hon. and learned Friend's proposition, upon wholly erroneous views of the real state of the case, and of what the House was now called on to do. He should have been as anxious as any one to press upon the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) the necessity of making some alterations in the Income Tax; but as the right hon. Gentleman stated it was only to be a temporary tax, he should not have wished to see it altered as regarded Ireland, in ordinary circumstances. But what was the fact? The whole objection made to the proposition of his hon. and learned Friend, was made under the idea that this was a new tax upon Ireland. He denied the allegation, and he hoped to be able to explain why he did so. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated to the House, most clearly, that he wanted no new tax to carry on the service of the country; he stated that the Revenue was 51,000,000 l. l., l. 794 l. d. d. 795 l. l. l. 796 l., l. l. 797
 Mr. Hume  thought there would be no difficulty in making the Return for the present year, although there were no records of past years.
 Mr. Bellew  agreed in the latter sentiments to which the noble Lord had given utterance; and he was not sorry that this subject had been brought forward, because it gave an opportunity for correcting many misrepresentations in reference to it; for instance, like that of the hon. Member for Coventry, who upheld his proposition upon the ground that there were many Irish gentlemen holding public appointments and offices, which was not the case. He confessed that, on the first blush of the proposition, it seemed quite reasonable that the Income Tax should extend to all portions of the empire. But there were two questions to be considered. First, the applicability of the tax, and the fitness of it to all parts of the country. Secondly, could it be made equally applicable under all circumstances? The tax, if justifiable at all, could only be so in a country which was in a state of prosperity, being possessed of great wealth, and flourishing in regard to trade and commerce. But he had seen it stated that only about one million sterling of the Income Tax was collected from the land. That fact of itself showed the unfitness of the tax for Ireland. In England, the majority of the people were employed in trade and manufactures. The contrary was the case in Ireland, more than three to one being employed in agriculture alone, which was the great, and almost the entire, source of the wealth of Ireland. Therefore, there was a good and sound reason for not extending the tax to Ireland. The experience of Chancellors of the Exchequer from the time of Sir John Newport downward, had shewn the impracticability of applying the assessed taxes to Ireland. Mr. Poulett Thompson stated, in 1830, that a case of exemption had been fully established on behalf of Ireland,
 779 l, l.; l.
 Mr. Milnes  wished to put the question, of which he had given notice, to the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury. Seeing that the late Report on the practice of opening letters at the Post Office was in the hands of Members, and,
 747
 Mr. Sheil : Sir, my hon. Friend—he will permit me to reciprocate the phrase of Parliamentary endearment — has often
 760 761 762 763 764 765
 Mr. Wallace  said, that having been a Commissioner under the old tax, he had witnessed such scenes of hardship and degradation, that nothing which he could then foresee could have induced him to give his support to a renewal of the cause of such occurrences, thinking, as he then did, that it was impossible to separate the Property and the Income Tax. But in that he now found himself mistaken, for our system of taxation was now so much improved that the distinction was easily observed. He considered a Property Tax a just and right one, but he objected to an Income Tax. With all his objections, however, he voted for the proposition of the right hon. Baronet, because he considered the application of his scheme of taxation wise and prudent. He also told the House freely and frankly that he should vote against the proposition of the hon. Member for Bath, in order that the growing prosperity of Ireland might be encouraged and promoted to the utmost.
 The Chairman : The language is stronger, in my opinion, than ought to be
 782
 The Chairman : The observations of the hon. Member are unparliamentary in the imputations which he casts on another hon. Member.
 The Chairman (Mr. Greene)  hoped the hon. Member would see that the expression was somewhat strong, and withdraw it.
 Mr. Blackstone  felt considerable difficulty in giving his vote on this question. On the one hand, if he were to vote for the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Bath, he believed it would be a just vote, but tantamount to an expression of his opinion that the Property Tax should be a permanent tax upon the country; and, on the other hand, he should consider himself as giving an unjust vote if it were to fix a tax upon England, Scotland, and Wales, without including Ireland. His hon. Friend the Member for the Northern Division of Essex had read a quotation from a speech of the right hon. Baronet when he was leader of the Opposition in 1833, clearly expressing his opinion against a Property Tax. He was at that time a humble supporter of the right hon. Baronet, but he had not yet seen reason
 809 "Now, my prophecy is, that you will make that tax necessary; to that you must come at last, if you will repeal the Malt tax. And I congratulate you, gentlemen, of the landed interest, on finding yourselves relieved from the pressure of the Malt Tax, and falling on a good comfortable Property Tax." "The hon. and learned Member for Ireland
 810 l. l.
 Mr. S. Crawford  wished to say a very few words before he voted on this question. He must say that he found considerable difficulty and some pain in deciding on the vote he thought it necessary to give on this question; for he stood there as one of the representatives of England, and at the same time he was personally interested in the subject of the vote about to be come to. He wished to give relief to the working classes of the Empire; and he believed that was the reel question they had to consider before they made up their minds as to how they should vote on the question before the House. He had voted with the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government for a continuance of the Property and Income Tax in England, and his object in so voting was that the working classes might obtain relief by the remission of taxation proposed by the right hon. Baronet. Well, then, as one of the representatives of England, he could not bring himself to say that the landed property of Ireland should be exempt from this tax. He felt that the country had derived much benefit from the measures of the right hon. Baronet; and he was of opinion that if the proposition of the hon. and learned Member for Bath were carried, much good would thereby accrue to the small holders and the labouring classes of Ireland. Though he knew there were many reasons why Ireland aright claim exemption from increasing taxation, when he was called on to give his vote, he must say that he could not bring himself to feel that the landed property of
 814
 Mr. W. Williams  had listened with attention to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Dungarvon; and certainly he expected that that right hon. Gentleman would have been able to offer stronger grounds for his opposition to the proposition of the hon. and learned Member for Bath, for imposing the Income Tax on landed property in Ireland. His own opinion on the question was not very strong, although he did think that a gentleman in Ireland enjoying an income of 1,000 l., l., l. l. 769 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., 770 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 771 l., l., l. l., l. l. Ross: l., l., l., l. l. 772 l. l.
 Captain Pechell  was dissatisfied with the answer of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and would divide the House.
 Captain Pechell  moved that there be laid before the House a Return of all cases of surcharge for Duties on Windows which have been decided by the Commissioners acting in the execution of the Acts relating to the Assessed Taxes, from the 1st day of January, 1839, to the 31st day of December, 1844.
 Sir J. Graham  hoped, as they were now on the subject of railways, the House would permit him to correct an error in a statement of fact which he had made on a former evening, when he had had the honour of addressing them on that subject. He had stated, in positive and very general terms, that he never, at any period since he had had the honour of having a seat in that House, had any connexion with any railway. He need not say that he had made the statement under the most entire impression that those general terms were to the fullest extent correct. At the moment it had escaped him that, in 1827, when he represented the city of Carlisle, and a railway was proposed to be formed between Newcastle and Carlisle, considering it was an object of local importance, and with a view to further that object, he had purchased a share of 100 l.
 Sir R. Peel  said, it would not be possible for him to give a satisfactory answer to the question put by his hon. Friend in one or two sentences. If it was the wish of the House that he should give a full answer to that question, they must allow him to enter into the subject at some length. He had had communication regarding it with his noble Friend the Secretary for the Foreign Department, and he would state to the House as briefly, and at the same time as fully as he could, an answer which he thought would be satisfactory to his hon. Friend and the House; but still, as he had said before, he could not answer that question in one or two sentences. In the early period of the last year, information was conveyed to the British Government that a number of Italian refugees and others, subjects of Austria, were, in different parts of the British possessions in the Mediterranean, organising attempts hostile to the tranquillity of Italy, particularly the Papal States, and
 748 749 750 751
 Sir R. Peel  said, the duty on sperm oil was not to be given up at once, but the Government did intend to provide for ultimately relinquishing that duty; but they would postpone it to such a period as not to interfere injuriously with existing interests. He might as well state now, that after the 5th of January, 1849, the duty on sperm oil would cease. [ Laughter.
 Sir R. Peel : Really the hon. Member for Montrose, with an unusual degree of candour, has put himself entirely out of court. I will prove to him that it is impossible for him to support the Motion of the hon. Member for Bath. I don't mean to say it is actually impossible for him to support that Motion, because I believe he will support it; but I mean to say that it is impossible for him, consistently with his established character for equity and good sense to give the vote he says he is prepared to record. The hon. Member for Montrose says it was his intention to leave my proposition untouched; and that he thinks, if an hon. Gentleman on this side of the House had not made a very indiscreet speech, this question never would have been agitated, and that he would have voted for the continuance of this tax, as applied to England and Scotland, without objecting to the omission of Ireland. What! is the hon. Member prepared to extend this tax to Ireland contrary to his own previous judgment, merely because an agricultural Member on this side of the House made an indiscreet speech. Is that a proper course to be pursued by an hon. Gentleman who, for the last forty years, has, with great advantage to the country I admit, and with great disinterestedness, applied himself to the consideration of financial matters? I admire the hon. Member for his seal and his industry displayed through so long a period; and, differing as I do from him on political questions, I do say that he has rendered great services to the country. I am a political opponent of that hon. Gentleman, who never gave me a vote in his life; but I am now anticipating the judgment which will be pronounced by a grateful posterity when I say that, actuated by high, pure, patriotic, disinterested motives, he has been the means of reducing the burdens on the country. But the hon. Member who, for the last forty years, has devoted his attention to questions of finance, admits that if he had not been provoked, by a foolish speech, as the hon. Member styled it, it would not have occurred to him to support the application of the tax to Ireland. Now, is that a principle
 798 Hume: 799 Member: 800 l. l. l.; l. l.; l. 801 802 l. 803
 Viscount Bernard  said, that representing as he did an influential and respectable constituency, he could not sit quietly by and listen to the sentiments which had been expressed, and the arguments urged, with regard to the landlords of Ireland. He felt it was his duty to vindicate them from the charges which had been brought against them; and he rose to say a few words with that object. And first, he might be permitted to allude to an assertion of the right hon. Member for Dungarvon (Mr. Sheil), that because many Irish Members had chosen to absent themselves, Irish interests were not fairly represented. In reply to which he could only say that he held the only seat in Munster in the hands of the Conservative party. He denied, on the part of the Irish landlords, any wish to shrink from bearing their share in the legitimate burdens of the country. If a great national scheme was to be carried out—if a measure was to be proposed, from which great and important benefits were expected—if by the continuance of the Income Tax, and the removal of a large portion of taxation, the revenue of the country could be brought to a more healthy state, he, for one, could say—and he thought he was representing the opinions of the majority of Irish landlords—that he would be willing to bear equally with his fellow-subjects all the burdens of taxation—that he would not hesitate to do so—nay, that
 775 l., s., s. 776 777 778 "Supplex ad prâtoria regis, Donee Bithyno libeat vigilare tyranno."
 Viscount Castlereagh  said he did not often intrude on the attention of the House; but in the present case he thought that the hon. and learned Gentleman had been too much carried away by his eloquence, and by those strong feelings which naturally, and perhaps unconsciously, bore him too far. He thought the hon. and learned Member was evidently not acquainted with the real state of the case, he having attacked the landlords of Ireland for not paying their proportion to the Income Tax, a tax which was laid on the people of England. The hon. and learned Gentleman charged the Irish landlords, who were receiving large rents from Ireland, with not paying their share of the public burdens: but he hoped to be enabled to say that which would satisfy the House and the hon. Member, that the landlords of Ireland did pay their contributions to the Property Tax. He assured the House that the Irish landlords paid their little contingency to the Income Tax. There might be some landlords who spent their incomes abroad and elsewhere in order to escape the Income Tax; but then there were others who had property both in Ireland and England who gave their quota to the Income Tax, and who felt that Ireland was benefited by their contributions to this tax. He would tell the hon. Gentleman that he contributed 80 l. 821
 Viscount Palmerston  said: Sir, whatever may be the result of the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Bath (Mr. Roebuck), he certainly will have the satisfaction of having performed this evening an almost unexampled feat, for he has obtained the support of persons who undoubtedly on most subjects are as widely apart as it is possible to be. He will go to the division supported by the hon. Member for Birmingham; by the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln; by the hon. Member for Essex; and by one or two others almost equally opposed to each other. Sir, I am not sorry, however, that the hon. and learned Gentleman has made the Motion we are now discussing, because I think that the result will show to the people of Ireland that the Members of this House most justly give a considerate attention to the affairs of that portion of the United Kingdom. I am not sorry, Sir, that the hon. and learned Gentleman has brought forward this Motion; but if he will allow me to say so, I do regret much of the speech by which he introduced it. I think there were portions of that speech having reference to Ireland and to Irish Members of this House, in which the hon. and learned Gentleman expressed himself in language of which he will not, I think, after full and mature consideration, be disposed to approve; for I am sure if any other hon. Member had used that language, he would have been the first to express disapprobation of it. Sir, I am not one of those who lay much stress on the argument that we ought not to impose this tax on Ireland on account of the political agitation which exists in that country. I think the mere fact of the existence of political agitation—if that agitation was not founded on real and practical grievances—no good reason why the tax should not be applied to Ireland, if it was in other respects just and expedient that the tax should be extended to that country. But I cannot shut my eyes to the fact that the Irish people generally are, and have been long, labouring under heavy grievances. And therefore I think, not because agitation exists, but because there is just ground of complaint, that the House ought not to accede to the proposition of the hon. and learned Member, and inflict this tax upon Ireland. But,
 812 813
 Lord J. Russell : I wish to ask another question connected with this subject. The right hon. Baronet has stated that Lord Seaton did not suspect when those twenty-two individuals left Corfu that they were going to Calabria. But it is stated in the newspapers that a letter had been received in this country from one of those unfortunate victims, written I think on the day before his death, in which it was stated, that a person who came on horseback to visit them in the island of Corfu, was the person who betrayed them to the Neapolitan Government. The question I wish to put is, whether by Lord Seaton, or the British Minister at the Court of Naples, any information has been conveyed to Her Majesty's Government, to the effect that a person accompanying these parties to the coast of Calabria had entrapped them.
 Lord J. Russell  thought that the course taken by the Government would be the most useful both to the House, for the purpose of legislation, and to the country; but at the same time he should be glad to see the provisions of his hon. Friend's Bill. He should be glad that there should be a report on the important question, whether the Statute Law and the unwritten law, as far as regarded our criminal code, could be consolidated into one statutory code.
 The Earl of Lincoln  apprehended that there were two questions now before the House—first, whether it was possible by any legislation to suppress this nuisance; and, in the second place, whether the scheme proposed last year by his hon. Friend was at all practicable? With reference to the first question, he was inclined to believe that it was possible considerably to abate, if not altogether to remove, the nuisance. He had been in communication with some scientific gentlemen on the subject, but he doubted whether the Bill of his hon. Friend would be effectual. If, on discussion, the House should be of that opinion, he should be prepared to introduce a measure of his own, being persuaded that the subject itself was not only important with reference to the public health, but also in an economical point of view.
 Mr. Bernal  observed, that his hon. Friend who had just spoken had altogether mistaken the question of Privilege. At
 872 "That it is an high infringement of the privilege of the Knights, Citizens, and Burgesses, chosen to represent the Commons of Great Britain in Parliament, for any Postmaster, his Deputies or Agents, in Great Britain or Ireland, to open and look into, by any means whatsoever, any letter directed to, or signed by the proper hand of, any Member, without an express warrant in writing, under the hand of one of the Principal Secretaries of State, for every such opening and looking into; or to detain or delay any letter directed to, or signed with the name of any Member, unless there shall be just reason to suspect some counterfeit of it, without an express warrant of a Principal Secretary of State, as aforesaid, for every such detaining or delaying." 873 874 875 876 877 878
 Lord J. Russell  had only to say that he thought the right hon. Gentleman quite right, notwithstanding the large majority they had obtained on this particular question, not to ask the House to proceed. He felt very strongly the inconvenience of adjourning a question which might have been decided by two or three hours more debate. It seemed to him, that although to-night the right hon. Gentleman had properly exercised his discretion, on future occasions when a considerable majority declared against adjournment, it would be right to take a decision of the House.
 Mr. J. S. Wortley  said, what he had stated was, that he thought it perfectly possible some of the hon. Member's letters had been opened; but he had never imputed to the hon. Member that he had given the slightest encouragement, or had the slightest connexion with the disturbances of 1842.
 Mr. Wortley  begged to explain that he had been misunderstood. What he had
 902
 Mr. James S. Wortley  was anxious to state the grounds on which he should give his vote; and in doing so he should avoid
 846 847 Much laughter. 848 849 850 851 T. Wilde: Duncombe: 852 853 l.
 Mr. S. Herbert  said: I wish not to delay this debate beyond any reasonable time, because I think, as far as it has
 887 888 889 890 Duncombe: "That the power has been very sparingly exercised, and never from personal or party motives, and that in every case investigated it seems to have been directed by an earnest and faithful desire to adopt that course which appeared to be necessary, either to promote the ends of justice or to prevent a disturbance of the public tranquillity, or otherwise to promote the best interests of the country." Duncombe: "With regard to the other class of warrants, though there have been some few issued by different Administrations that have been in power during the last twenty-two years, in regard to which it is obvious that, on a subsequent review of the facts, a difference of opinion might arise as to the discretion exercised in each particular case; yet your Committee see no reason to doubt that the conduct of the Secretaries of State belonging to each of those Administrations has been guided by no other motive than an anxious desire to preserve the public peace, with the maintenance of which they were charged." 891 892 893
 Lord J. Manners : This is a question, as has been observed by my hon. Friend the Member for Hull, affecting not the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, but the hon. Member for Finsbury, and should be so treated. After what has fallen from my hon. Friend the Member for Pontefract, I think it necessary to state in a few words the reasons by which I shall be guided in giving my vote upon this occasion. I entirely agree with what has been said against mixing up the questions which have been decided by the Committee with the question affecting the hon. Member for Finsbury, and sincerely trust that he will consent to alter the terms of his Motion so as to restrict it entirely to his own case. I should have been content to give a silent vote, had it not been for certain observations which I have heard from the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Treasury. The right hon. Gentleman has removed from the consideration of the case all those circumstances which I believe to be naturally attached to the question, and put it entirely and clearly before the House as a matter of confidence, first, in the honour and integrity of the Committee, and secondly, in himself and his Colleagues. I am anxious, Sir, to reject for myself any such conclusion, and to vindicate for others, no less than myself, the right of voting on the simple merits of the case, and not on those extraneous views which, in my humble opinion, are too frequently pressed upon the House, if a free discussion and fair decision are to be regarded as of any value. I protest, therefore, against this case of the hon. Member for Finsbury being made the test and touchstone of want of confidence in the Government. I say that if such a question as this is to be viewed as a question of confidence in Her Majesty's Ministers, the sooner some new Cromwell appears, and removes "that bauble," and turns us all out, the better. I beg leave to ask the House, what are the real facts of the case? They are simply these: — An hon. Gentleman complains that his letters have been opened. He asks for the same justice for himself that has been afforded to other Gentlemen in a similar predicament. He says, that he feels himself, as long as suspicion attaches to him—I quote his own epithet—a degraded man. I cannot think that epithet too strong, considering the circumstances of the case; for no one would be subject to have his letters opened, unless there was grave suspicion attaching to him of having
 860 861 862
 Lord J. Manners  hoped that, as the hon. Gentleman the proposer of this Bill did not intend to carry it through another stage before Easter, the hon. Member for the University of Oxford would not obstruct the introduction of the Bill.
 Mr. Disraeli : I rise, Sir, to second the Amendment proposed by the noble Lord, because its intention was first shadowed forth by my noble Friend (Lord John Manners), and it received at the same time the sympathy of the House. The Amendment narrows the question which now, for the second night, we are debating; but that question has been narrowed into limits of a much simpler character by the right hon. Gentleman who last addressed the House from the Treasury Bench. The right hon. Gentleman has narrowed the question to a personal matter between the hon. Member for Finsbury and the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State. If that, indeed, be the real state of the question, I, for one, shall regret that I have interfered with it, and I am sure I am speaking the sentiments of my noble Friend (Lord John Manners), and of my hon. Friend the Member for Hull (Sir John Hanmer), when I express this opinion. But if it be indeed true, and I am as little inclined to credit it as some assertions equally monstrous that have been very current during this debate, it is only an additional illustration of the great truth that historians have celebrated—that often, from slight and personal causes, great benefits arise, and great principles are vindicated. Sir, the hon. Gentleman the Member for Sheffield, who addressed the House early in the evening, disclaimed any intention of touching what he calls the legal part of the question, and seemed to consider that that is not to form any material part of our discussion. I know not whether the hon. Gentleman may be right in the position which he has assumed; but we cannot forget that Her Majesty's Government have proved themselves to be of a contrary opinion, because the right hon. Gentleman the First Minister, in his complete and elaborate speech—I mean complete, because it touched upon each division of the subject both as to its legal character and its personal interest—the right hon. Gentleman has particularly argued the question upon this ground. The Secretary of State, too, has vindicated himself as having acted in pursuance of a Statute; and the right hon.
 903 904 905 906 The House that Jack built, 907 908 909 R. Peel: 910
 Mr. Escott  apprehended that was not the proper time to discuss the clauses of this Bill. He must, however, sincerely thank the right hon. Baronet for introducing so important a measure. The object which he should keep in view in the further progress of the measure would be to take care that no provision was introduced into the Bill to enable any person who derived profit from former extortionate practices to be remunerated in proportion to his past extortion.
 Captain Layard  said, that no one in that House felt more deeply impressed than himself with respect both for the honourable feeling and intelligence which were the characteristics of those Gentlemen who formed the Secret Committee; at the same time, he felt bound to state his opinion, that the country was far from satisfied to allow this matter to remain as it did at present; and he thought he should be able to show, by the line of conduct pursued by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, that such was the case. Before the petition of Mr. Mazzini was presented to the House, a friend of his (Captain Layard's) had asked him "if he had heard the report?" He asked his friend, "to what report he alluded?" The answer was, "that it was currently reported that the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department had
 863 864 "Oh lame and importent conclusion." 865 866
 Mr. C. Buller  said: I think, Sir, the most superfluous sentence I ever heard in this House—and that is saying a great deal—was the closing sentence of the speech of the hon. Member for Weymouth (Mr. Bernal), which consisted of a vehement exhortation to the Member for Fins-bury not to relax in his efforts with reference to this subject; for I think experience has shown us that if any man is unlikely to relax his efforts—especially in such a case as the present—it is that hon. Gentlemen. I may, perhaps, break in a little upon the gravity of this debate; but I declare that, after the consideration I have given to the subject, I can scarcely look very gravely upon the question as now presented to this House. That there are very grave questions connected with it there cannot be the slightest doubt; and in this respect I think the House responds to the feeling of the country. That the existence of this power in the hands of Ministers is a matter for grave consideration to every man in this country will hardly be doubted; but, on the present occasion, I will not enter upon the discussion of that question. We have not now to discuss the policy of the law as it stands; although upon that subject no roan can entertain a stronger opinion than I do. I think the power as worthless as it is inconsistent with the security of our liberties, with our domestic comfort, and with our national morality. I put aside, then, that grave question. And now the only question is—admitting as I fully do that Ministers have clearly proved that they are not to be charged with the invention of a new power—that they have acted according to the precedents of their predecessors in exercising this power of opening letters—the only question before us is, whether they have exercised that power in an honourable and discreet manner. I must confess that, till yesterday, I felt very deeply and very painfully upon this subject. I did regard some of the
 882 883 884 885 886
 Mr. Speaker  having put the question,
 Mr. G. W. Hope : Perhaps I may be allowed to state that we had no notice whatever. I can find no notice whatever in the correspondence with Lord Seaton respecting the arrival of the Bandieras in the Ionian Islands previously to the report that they had left, except this,—application was made to him that one of the brothers, being a deserter, should be delivered up, which application was refused.
 Mr. G. W. Hope : We did not know the fact.
 Mr. Muntz  said, that in some trades smoke might be got rid of, while in others that would be perfectly impossible. For instance, it would be ruinous in the iron trade, and therefore the House ought to be very careful, and should look close at the Bill they introduced, before they legislated upon this subject. It was useless to expect to get rid of smoke without an increase of the expense of fuel. He had tried many experiments, and had always found this to be the result.
 Mr. E. Tennent : There was now a monthly communication between this country and the Presidencies of Calcutta and Madras, in addition to the usual monthly Overland Mail. With respect to the question as to an additional communication with Bombay, the Government did not consider that port of sufficient importance to alter the present system respecting it. At all
 827
 Mr. Barneby  begged to call the attention of his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary to a recent decision by a learned Judge on orders of affiliation made by magistrates, which decision declared those orders to be invalid. He had reason to believe that that decision took a correct view of the law; and therefore it was his intention on an early day to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the purpose of declaring and settling the law in bastardy cases.
 Mr. Bright  said, that the Bill proposed by the hon. Member last Session, was totally unfitted for the object it proposed to accomplish. He had no desire to interfere with the hon. Gentleman, but he thought it would save a great deal of time if leave were not given to bring in the Bill. He would advise the hon. Gentleman to consult practical men before he took the subject in hand.
 Mr. John Collett  regretted that he could not fall into the views of the right hon. Gentleman. The House had met at four o'clock, and the Speaker had been in the Chair from that hour until now—past twelve o'clock. It was only just to the House and to various hon. Members who were anxious to speak upon the subject, that the debate should be adjourned. He was himself anxious to make a few remarks upon the question, and had been endeavouring, for the last seven hours, to catch the Speaker's eye, but without success; and he knew of at least twenty other hon. Members on his side of the House who were in the same situation. He knew it was impossible for any Member to be listened to at that hour of the morning. He had on several occasions spoken at a late hour, and had not been attended to; and it had been asked of him why he did not speak earlier? He was determined, therefore, that he would not speak late on the present question, but would insist upon the adjournment.
 Mr. John Collett  moved that the debate be now adjourned.
 Mr. Roebuck : I shall be sorry, Sir, to go to a divison on the Amendment before the House without being able to explain my feeling in reference to it, and the circumstances which shall decide my vote. I am the more anxious to do it for the strong feeling that has been introduced into the discussion of the question by various Gentlemen who have taken a part in it; and I desire at the very outset to separate myself, if possible, from every personal consideration. I wish to argue the question, as the hon. Member opposite said, upon pure reason, and to show the noble Lord who has proposed this Amendment that he would do far better to stick to the original question. When this question was first brought before the House, the hon. Member for Finsbury submitted it in very specific terms, and with the direct assertion that certain things had been done. He questioned the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and that right hon. Baronet—I think it necessary to mark the progress of these things in order to show the conclusion to which I come—said upon the occasion that he stood upon the responsibility of his situation, which he felt imposed upon him the obligation of not answering the question of the hon. Gentleman. The right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government was the next Minister who was called upon to express an opinion. That right hon. Gentleman is an exceedingly delicate barometer of public opinion; but in this, as in all cases, his change was evinced after public opinion had pretty well manifested itself. Public opinion did manifest itself upon this occasion, and he was obliged to depart from the position originally taken by the Secretary of State for the Home Department. Inquiry became unavoidable, and the right hon. Baronet, with his usual dexterity, proposed just that degree of inquiry which he thought would suit the then state of public opinion on the subject. The right hon. Baronet proposed to refer the question to a Secret Committee. Why did he do that? He did it to satisfy the anxiety and the alarm which existed in the public mind; and now, I will ask, why was that alarm and anxiety created? Because the public learnt for the first time that this power existed; they learnt for the first time that this power was exercised by the present Ministers; and then arose that which I
 912 913 914 915 916 "Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that from and after the 1st day of June, 1711, no person or persons shall presume wittingly, willingly, or knowingly to open, detain, or delay, or cause, procure, permit, or suffer to be opened, detained, or delayed, any letter or letters, packet or packets, after the same is or shall be delivered into the General or other Post Office, or into the hands of any person or persons employed for the receiving or carrying post letters, and before delivery to the
 917 918 919 920
 Mr. Borthwick  said, that with the imaginary conjectural course spoken of by the hon. Gentleman he had nothing to do; he could not tell how it might be disposed of; for he had not the gift of prescience
 879 880 de profundis, 881
 Mr. Milnes  rose to address the House. He did not know that he should have presumed to intrude on the House in this debate, but from the accidental circumstance of his having witnessed, when lately abroad, the unhappy effect produced on the public mind in foreign countries by the unfortunate revelation which was now engaging the attention of Parliament. During a short residence on the Continent, he had been a witness of the painful suspicions which this matter had occasioned. To himself, indeed, the observation of these
 835 836 837 838 T. Duncombe: T. Duncombe; 839 840 Punch.
 Mr. Milnes  having inspected the magnificent machinery of Mr. Marshall, at Leeds, for putting down this nuisance, gave his cordial support to the Motion.
 Mr. Milnes : Is there any objection to lay on the Table of the House any letter, or copy of any letter, that may have passed between this Government and the Austrian
 831
 Mr. T. Duncombe : It is stated in Mr. Mazzini's letter that was opened.
 Mr. T. Duncombe : Did you give the Austrian Government notice that the Bandieras were in Malta?
 Mr. T. Duncombe : Letters or extracts of letters. You had the correspondence of these parties with Mr. Mazzini to guide you.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, when the right hon. Baronet observed that he hoped the noble Lord would assist him in making a vigorous attempt to conclude the debate, he hoped the right hon. Baronet would have justice on his side, and some reason for making a vigorous attempt. He had felt it totally impossible that the debate could be brought to a conclusion that night. As to the question itself, it was taken out of his hands; it was now in the hands of the noble Lord. It was, in fact, now a personal question between the Government and himself; it was a question how far they had abused their power or not, in his individual case, of opening his letters. They knew perfectly well they had opened his letters, and refused any explanation of their conduct. Nothing
 923
 Mr. T. Duncombe  accepted the explanation. He had, however, understood the hon. Member to accuse him (Mr. T. Duncombe) of being in communication with persons who were tried at York, and upon whose trial hand grenades were produced, and to identify him with those parties.
 Mr. Macaulay : I wish to explain, as clearly as possible, the precise grounds on which I shall feel it my duty to give my vote on this question. I cannot vote for the Motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury as it stands, and my reasons are two. First, I think that the Motion, framed as it is, contains in itself an implied censure on the Secret Committee; and, secondly, even if the words of the Motion did not imply a censure, the speech of the hon. Member who introduced it imparted to it the character of a censure. The Notice is, "to call the attention of the House to the evasive and unsatisfactory character of the Report of the Secret Committee." Everybody knows that where the terms of a Motion are doubtful, they may be explained by what is said in support of it; and what would otherwise be a matter perfectly unimportant, may assume great importance if introduced by a speech containing matter of crimination. Such may be the case with a common Motion, but much more so when it is a Motion which implies in itself a species of censure. On that ground—if that ground were all—I could not support the proposition of my hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury. The Secret Committee,
 841 842 843 844 845
 Mr. Ferrand  wished to know whether it was the intention of the right hon. Baronet, by any enactment in this Bill, to withdraw from individual magistrates the power of appointing their own clerks? If this were so, many magistrates would retire from the Commission altogether.
 Mr. Ferrand  said, that a short time ago he was speaking to a very large manufacturer, who was a member of the Anti-Corn-Law League, and who said that he burned his own smoke, that it was easy to be accomplished, and who had asked him to use his exertions in Parliament to compel every manufacturer to do the same.
 Mr. Mackinnon  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to "Prohibit the nuisance of Smoke from the furnaces of Factories." The Bill he proposed to introduce was almost identical in its provisions with
 832
 Mr. Watson  moved for leave to bring in a Bill for the further repeal of enactments imposing pains and penalties upon Her Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects on account of their religion. He was not sure whether the Government intended to offer any opposition to this Bill; but he thought that at all events the discussion had better be taken on the second reading. The same Bill was brought into the House of Lords last Session by Lord Beaumont, but did not pass entire, inasmuch as the Lord Chancellor and other legal Lords considered it better to pass a Bill which could not be open to any objections, or excite debate, and such a Bill, being introduced into the House of Commons by the right hon. Baronet opposite, passed without discussion. The object of the Bill he now desired to bring in, was to carry into effect that which had received the sanction of a large portion of the House of Lords, including the Lord Chancellor. Some parts of the Bill might give rise to discussion; but that discussion could be taken on the second reading, or in Committee.
 Sir Charles Napier  wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government, relative to a reply he had made yesterday to the question put by the
 828
 Sir C. Napier : What I want to know is, whether Lord Seaton, in communicating to the British Government what he had done, stated that he had sent to inform those unfortunate individuals that he had apprized the Neapolitan Government of their having left the island.
 Captain Pechell  begged to say, in reference to, his Motion on the subject of the employment of the poor in Union Workhouses, that the Guardians of the Boston Union had refused to comply with the Order of that House. He, therefore, begged to ask what course the right hon. Baronet, the Home Secretary, intended to take in reference to those Guardians; and also what directions, if any, had been given to prevent the crushing of bones in workhouses?
 Mr. Ward  said, that if his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury was entitled to an inquiry before the speech which had just been addressed to the House, he must confess that he thought him ten times more entitled to it now. The hon. and learned Gentleman bespoke the sympathy of the House in favour of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Home Department. He said that attempts had been made, both on that (the Opposition) side of the House, and by the press, to run down the right hon. Gentleman as a public man, to throw a stigma upon him; but was the right hon. Gentleman's character the only one which had been assailed? Were they not all public men; and was not the hon. Member for Finsbury, representing a large and powerful constituency, and by habit and political interests bearing peculiar relations to the working classes of this country, to be considered as a public man? He would admit that he was not so important a public man as the right hon. Gentleman upon whom the conservation of the peace of the country depended; but still, both the hon. Member for Finsbury and the other Members of that House were entrusted with duties, for the performance of which they sat there, and in the way of which, he must say, he thought unfair impediments had been thrown. He recollected perfectly the state of the country at the time referred to by the hon. and learned Gentleman,—the general excitement of the working classes—and the bloody-minded conspiracy which was developed at York. But, admitting all that, what could be more desirable than that men before embarking in such dangerous enterprizes should consult
 854 855 856 857 858
 Sir J. Graham  said, that there had been issued a new Commission to inquire into the Criminal Law, consisting, besides Mr. Starkie and Mr. B. Ker, of three other distinguished lawyers, viz., Sir E. Ryan, Mr. Richards, and Mr. Amos; and to these five Commissioners the subject with which the hon. Member's Bill proposed to deal had been referred. After this information, it was for the hon. Member to say whether it was necessary to introduce his Bill.
 Sir J. Graham  begged to state, in reply to the hon. Member for Knaresborough, that he did not seek by his Bill to deprive magistrates of the power of appointing their own clerks, but he objected to allowing them to receive any fees except in Petty Sessions or in open court.
 Sir J. Graham  moved for leave to bring in a Bill for Payment of Justices' Clerks and Clerks of the Peace, by Salaries instead of Fees, and for regulating Fees in Criminal Proceedings.
 Sir James Graham  said, the hon. Gentleman had given him notice of the question he intended to put. He thought the hon. Gentleman must admit that, as far as the authority of the Poor Law Commissioners could be exerted over the local Boards, everything had been done to enforce the Order of the House. If the hon. Member thought the power of the House was to be exerted, it would be for him to consider what steps should be taken. As to the second question, he did not believe the practice, though objectionable, was illegal. The Poor Law Commissioners could only exercise the powers which the law gave them; if any increase of them were desired, there must be an alteration of the law.
 Sir James Graham  replied, that by the construction put upon the Act of last Session, in reference to orders of bastardy, its provisions had been rendered nugatory, and could not be enforced. It would be his duty to bring under the consideration of the House a Bill to rectify this defect.
 Sir J. Hobhouse , seeing the hon. Member the Secretary to the Board of Control in his place, would ask him whether in the additional communication with India by a steam-vessel on the 20th of each month, which he was very glad to see, it was intended to include Bombay; and, if not, whether it was intended to have a monthly Overland Mail to Bombay as well as to the Presidencies of Calcutta and Madras.
 Sir R. Inglis  expected to hear some statement of the objects of the Bill. If it was inconsistent with the convenience of the House that that statement should be made now, the debate had better be adjourned. He did not mean to express any opinion on the subject at present; but he was unwilling to sanction the introduction of a Bill with such a title without any further statement than that which the hon. Member had made.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, that the Speaker had found much difficulty in this discussion; for the right hon. Gentleman, though desirous of calling up the friends and opponents of the Motion alternately before the House, did not actually know where to look for them. The question had raised up enemies of the Administration on their own side of the House, and friends of the Administration on the Opposition side of the House. His hon. Friend, the Member for Pontefract, who rose immediately behind the Treasury Bench, had opened the discussion this evening in a speech of a very questionable character. Did his hon. Friend call that backing his friends? One of the best speeches which had been made in favour of Ministers, or at least against the hon. Member for Finsbury, at whose back he sat, was that of the hon. Member for Sheffield; and in the whole of his speech, excepting the beginning and the ending, he was willing to concur. Whatever pleasure that speech was calculated to give those who thought with him, he could not believe that it imparted equal pleasure to the hon. Member for Finsbury. These circumstances made him think that the quick and impartial eye of the Speaker had peculiar difficulty in ascertaining where he ought to look for friend or opponent of the Ministers. He could not exactly agree in the opinion expressed by his right hon. friend, the Member for Edinburgh, that the letters of a Member of Parliament should be viewed in a different light from the letters of any other person, in reference to the exercise of—he would not say a Statutable power—but a Common Law power, confirmed by Statute. In the first place, he did not know that the letters coming from the hon. Member for Finsbury had been intercepted and examined.
 867 "So far as the criminal warrants go, no suspicion arises that unfairness or partiality has directed their issue. With regard to the other class of warrants, though there have been some few issued by different Administrations that have been in power during the last twenty-two years, in regard to which it is obvious that, on a subsequent review of the facts, a difference of opinion might arise as to the discretion exercised in each particular case, yet your Committee see no reason to doubt that the conduct of the Secretaries of State belonging to each of those Administrations has been guided by no other motive than an anxious desire to preserve the public peace, with the maintenance of which they were charged." 868 locus standi 869 870 871 A cheer of dissent.
 Sir R. Peel : I assure the House what I have stated is in exact conformity with the communications received. I am bound to say, having read the despatch of Lord Seaton, that if I am asked whether there will be any inconvenience in producing it, I don't think there would. But when I have produced one paper, hon. Gentlemen opposite may ask, why not produce some others? What I staled to the House was this—no communication was made to the British Government—no communication was made to Lord Seaton—no communication of any kind was received by Lord Seaton with respect to the conduct of the Bandieras and other refugees in Corfu, until after they had actually sailed. The first account we had of their having sailed was from Austria, from Sir Robert Gordon, in a letter dated the 26th of July, with a remonstrance against our having permitted the expedition to sail. Upon receiving it we called on Lord Seaton for a further report, and then we had two letters from Lord Seaton exactly in conformity with what I have stated.
 Sir R. Peel : The parties had sailed before Lord Seaton was aware of the fact. They sailed about ten o'clock at night. I again say I am speaking only to the best of my recollection. They sailed at ten o'clock on the evening of the 12th of June. Lord Seaton had not the least conception they intended to leave the island: but on the 13th the Consuls made the representation I have referred to, and asked that the  Medea
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, I thought I had fully communicated all I knew on this subject in the answer which I gave to the question put by my hon. Friend (Mr. M. Milnes); but, for the satisfaction of the hon. and gallant Officer, I have no objection to answer his question, and to repeat all I recollect on the subject. I must, however, decline any reference to the case of the
 829 Medea, J. Russell: T. Buncombe: * Medea *
 Sir R. Peel : What correspondence can be produced?
 Sir R. Peel : I assure the noble Lord I have no recollection whatever on that point. Had I known the noble Lord's intention to put such a question, I should have come prepared to answer it. Perhaps the noble Lord will renew his question tomorrow.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he had felt bound to take the sense of the House on the first
 922
 Sir R. Peel  said: Sir, I much regret that it is considered necessary again to postpone this debate. I do think that, unless there were an absolute necessity for a further adjournment, a sense of justice towards the Government ought to induce the House to continue the discussion to-night for the purpose of pronouncing an opinion upon the subject before it. It is quite clear that it is absolutely necessary this matter should be disposed of before the House proceeds with other business. And the House is aware that the other business, which must of necessity be postponed if the Motion for the adjournment be persevered in, is of the utmost importance to the commercial and general interests of the country. If the hon. Gentleman who now makes the Motion, wishes to speak, I am sure he will now be listened to with attention. It is only a little past twelve. If the debate be again postponed to-night, it must take precedence of all other business to-morrow, and that will render it necessary to postpone the Motion of the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) upon the Sugar Duties; and also the noble Lord's (Lord John Russell's) Motion on the same subject, and no decision upon either of those questions will be pronounced this week. Now I say that will be a great public inconvenience, not merely to the Members of the Government, though they are mainly interested in promoting the public business, but, looking at the great public interests involved, and the manner they are effected, it is, I submit, the duty of the House to make a sacrifice of its own convenience in some degree, and decide
 921
 Lord Howick : In common, Sir, with every one who has heard it, I have listened with great delight to the able and powerful speech of the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down—a speech which proves how valuable an acquisition he will be to that Cabinet which for the first time since his connexion with it, he has now come forward to defend. But able as that speech was, I do think that it should succeed in inducing the House to pass by altogether the subject that has been submitted to our notice. I agree with my hon. Friend the Member for Edinburgh, who said that though there were in his opinion decided objections to the Motion as it now stands, yet that there were ample grounds for an inquiry. Throughout the debate so many hon. Gentlemen have expressed a similar opinion, that I think the question should be confined to that point; therefore, as I share in the opinion of my right hon. Friend, I shall take the liberty before I sit down of submitting an Amendment, of which the object will be to narrow the inquiry. I take that course very much on the grounds stated by my right hon. Friend. I think with him that it is a decided objection to the Motion of my hon. Friend that, whether designedly or not, it does undoubtedly imply some blame on the Committee of last year. I for one see no ground for any imputation—I see no reason for doubling that that Committee has ably acquitted itself of the task imposed upon it by the House. I think another decided objection is, that it calls upon the Select Committee to give judgment upon a point which the House only is capable of deciding, namely,—whether the existing law and practice on the subject should be continued or not. I agree with my right hon. Friend that there is no need for farther information upon
 894 895 896 897 898 899 900 901 "That it having been alleged by a Member of this House, in his place, that letters addressed to him have been detained in the Post Office, and opened before being delivered to him, a Select Committee be appointed to inquire whether this allegation is true, and if so, by what authority and upon what grounds such detention and opening of post letters has been sanctioned."
 Vicount Sandon : In the peculiar position in which I am placed I hope I shall be allowed to state one or two points, to prevent the danger of any mistake. It has been alleged that the question before the House is one which has not been before the Committee. Now the hon. Member for Finsbury, when he first mentioned the subject in this House alluded, though certainly in a less formal mode, to the opening of his own letters. But afterwards, before the Committee, he made a specific charge to that effect, though he declined to produce any evidence in support of it. In our Report we say that we believed we had seen every political warrant that had been issued for the last twenty-two years by the different Secretaries of State. I would ask the House, then, to say whether our attention could have been otherwise than attracted to the subject of the hon. Member's letters, or whether, as seems to be alleged, that subject could be entirely new? We expressed the: result of our investigation in the following terms. Referring to political warrants we say,—
 "With regard to the other class of warrants, though there have been some few issued by different Administrations that have been in power during the last twenty-two years, in regard to which it is obvious that, on a subsequent review of the facts, a difference of opinion might arise as to the discretion exercised in each particular case, yet your Commitee see no reason to doubt that the conduct of the Secretaries of State belonging to each of those Administrations has been guided by no other motive than an anxious desire to preserve the public peace, with the maintenance of which they were charged."
 Mr. Gladstone  said, the objection to the clause appeared to be this,—it would prevent the solvent shareholder from disposing of his shares until all the calls were paid up, and thus the insolvent holder would have the advantage; for, of course, it did not much matter to him whether he effected a transfer or not. Now, to meet this objection, he would suggest that the following words be inserted:—"After such call has been made, and shall become due."
 Mr. Gladstone  said, the clause was the usual one, and the best defence of it was, that no complaints had ever arisen from its operation. The case of a company requiring its servants to deliver up books, papers, vouchers, and so on, which were its own property, was not at all analogous to the ordinary case of a dispute between two parties in a Court of Justice, where the presumption was equally in favour of both antecedently to the investigation. He could conceive of no justification for detaining the property of the company.
 Lord C. Hamilton  would observe, in the first place, after what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, that if the Secret Committee had felt that Her Majesty's Government had used this power improperly, they ought to have recommended an impeachment of the Ministers. He congratulated the hon. Member for Knaresborough on his great ingenuity in discovering a new cause of complaint—namely, that the right hon. Baronet had not issued more warrants, and opened more letters—the letters of the hon. Member for Kendal himself, and others, who might be supposed to stand in the same position as the hon. Member for Finsbury. [Mr.  Ferrand: 953 954 955 956
 The Solicitor General  said, if he had been disinclined to take part in this discussion, one of the most disagreeable and painful he had ever heard within the walls of the House—and which had already been sufficiently protracted—it was impossible, after the pointed notice of the noble Lord and of the hon. and learned Member for Bath on a preceding evening, independently of the appeals that had been made to him to-night, that he should avoid trespassing on the attention of the House.
 968 969 970 nothing but 971 972 Watson 973 "Gives no power to the Secretary of State to detain or open letters, but prohibits others from doing so, except by an express warrant in writing under the hand of the Principal Secretary for every such opening or detaining." "The terms in which the provisions of the Act, 9 Anne, c. 10, upon this subject are enacted, can only be explained upon the supposition that this power was at the time fully recognized." 974 "To discover and prevent many dangerous and wicked designs which have been and are daily contrived, against the peace and welfare of the Commonwealth, the intelligence whereof cannot well be communicated but by letter of escript." "And whereas abuses may be committed by wilfully opening, embezzling, detaining and delaying of letters or packets, to the great discouragement of trade, commerce, and correspondence; for prevention thereof, be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, and from and after the 1st day of June, 1711, no person or persons shall presume wittingly, willingly, or knowingly, to open, detain or delay, or cause, procure, permit or suffer to be opened, detained
 975 l. "I do solemnly and sincerely declare that I will not wittingly or willingly open or delay, or cause or suffer to be opened or delayed, contrary to my duty, any letter or anything sent by the post which shall come into my hands or custody by reason of my employment relating to the Post Office, except by the consent of the person or persons to whom the same shall be directed, or by an express warrant in writing under the hand of one of the Principal Secretaries of State (or, as to Ireland, under the hand or hands of the Lord Lieutenant or other Chief Governor or Governors of Ireland), for that purpose, except in such cases where the party or parties to whom such letter or anything sent by the post shall be directed, and who is or are chargeable with the payment of the postage thereof, shall refuse or neglect to pay the same; and unless such letters or anything sent by the post as shall be returned for want of true directions, or when the party or parties to whom the same shall be directed cannot be found; and that I will not in any way embezzle any such letter or thing sent by the post as aforesaid; and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously, intending to fulfil and obey the same; and by virtue of the provisions of an Act passed in the first year of the reign of Her Majesty Queen Victoria, intituled 'An Act for the Management and Regulation of the Post Office.'" 976 "Every person employed by or under the Post Office, who shall, contrary to his duty, open or procure, or suffer to be opened, a post letter, or shall wilfully detain or delay, or procure or suffer to be detained or delayed, a post letter, shall, in England and Ireland, be guilty of a misdemeanor, and in Scotland of a crime and offence, and being convicted thereof shall suffer such punishment, by fine or imprisonment, or by both, as to the Court shall seem meet; provided always, that nothing herein contained shall extend to the opening or detaining or delaying of a post letter returned for want of a true direction, or of a post letter returned by reason that the person to whom the same shall be directed is dead or cannot be found, or shall have refused the same, or shall have refused or neglected to pay the postage thereof, nor to the opening or detaining or delaying a post letter in obedience to an express warrant in writing under the hand (in Great Britain) of one of the Principal Secretaries of State; and in Ireland under the hand and seal of the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland." 977 "Complaint being made in the House of Commons by certain of the Members, that their letters had been opened and read by the clerks of the Post Office, on the pretence of ascertaining whether or no the franks of these Members were counterfeited, and a copy of His Majesty's warrant, whereby letters of Members and certain public functionaries were permitted to pass free from postage, being read, it was ordered, that the copy of the said warrant be referred to the consideration of a Committee, and that they do examine the matter thereof, and report the same, with their opinions thereon, to the House; and on the Committee making its report, the House resolved,  inter alia, 978 "By an earnest and faithful desire to adopt that course which appeared to be necessary, either to promote the ends of justice or to prevent a disturbance of the public tranquillity, or otherwise to promote the best interests of the country." 979 980 981 "The Committee of Secrecy appointed to inquire into the state of the law in respect of the detaining and opening of letters at the General Post Office, and into the mode under which the authority given for such detaining and opening had been exercised, and to report their opinions and observations thereupon to the House, and to whom several petitions were referred; have examined the matters to them referred, and have agreed to the following Report." "Before entering, however, on this head of inquiry" (said the Committee), "they consider it proper to observe, that they have had before them, with a few exceptions, every person now living who has held the seals of Secretary of State for Home or Foreign Affairs, since the year 1822, as well as two noblemen who have discharged the office of Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, and several persons who have held confidential situations under them; and they have further examined the present Postmaster General, the Secretaries of the Post Office for England and Ireland, together with several of the most confidential officers in every branch of the Foreign Office, the Home Office, and the Post Office; and that all these witnesses, without exception, have made to your Committee the most full and unreserved disclosures; so much so as to have rendered it superfluous for your Committee to examine any other witnesses." 982 "There is a marked improvement," (said the Report) "in the practice of the present Home Secretary as compared with that of his predecessors. Since the average duration of the warrants issued since September, 1841, does not exceed forty days, and in many cases it is as low as three or four days." 983 984 985
 Mr. Fox Maule  did think that the clause should be modified, and that a power should be given to ascertain whether the offence was one for which they might take bail, as in ordinary cases.
 Lord G. Somerset  concurred with the hon. Member that the clause required modification. But with regard to the observations
 932
 Lord G. Somerset  was disposed to think that the clause might be improved; and at a future time he would be ready to consider the Amendment proposed. But as the clause was introduced after much consideration and discussion, and as it had been introduced into every railway bill for the last thirteen or fourteen years, he could not take upon himself the responsibility of altering it at present, or without much consideration.
 Lord G. Somerset  moved that the Order of the Day be read for a Committee of the whole House on the Companies Clauses Consolidation Bill.
 Lord G. Somerset  had no objection to introduce a clause which would effect the object desired by the hon. Member, if he could only point out a way in which it could be done without interfering with the
 929
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that on the night when he had given notice of his intention to introduce the bills which were now to be considered, he had stated that the object of Government in the introduction of these bills was, to render all Private Bills which might be hereafter introduced, for the formation and regulations of railways and companies, conformable to the regulations of the bill now before the Committee; of course, there was no intention to prevent the discussion being taken on any Private Bills which might hereafter be introduced. They might be considered in their several clauses in Committee, and then other clauses introduced at that time to render them comformable with the bills which were before the Committee.
 Lord John Russell  said: I make no apology to the House for addressing it on the present occasion; but the noble Lord the Member for Tyrone has thought proper to say that I am to be blamed because I have not taken an earlier opportunity of addressing the House on the Motion of my hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury. Sir, I felt no necessity for rising. With respect to the question itself, there was a Committee appointed last year, which received the evidence of various Secretaries of State, and before which Committee the right hon. Gentleman produced the warrants issued by the various Secretaries who preceded him. I was examined before that Committee, and I gave them fully, as far as my knowledge and recollection served, an account of all that I had done when I had the honour of filling the office of Secretary of State. Such being the case, there is no need for inferring merely that I took part in transactions similar to those of which the right hon. the Home Secretary is accused; that I had signed warrants directing the opening of letters; and that I had acted generally as my predecessors and my successors have done. But Sir, for that matter, I did rise last night in the course of the debate, and it was by your decision that the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland was called on to address the House. Sir, I feel no difficulty either in stating my view of what the practice is, what was the practice I followed, or in how far I think the conduct of the right hon. Gentleman is justified, and how far there is still wanting explanation as to parts of his conduct. With respect to the law of the case I certainly cannot give an opinion further than this, that if the law did not intend that the Secretary of State should exercise this power, then to unlearned persons the Statutes of Anne, and the Statutes of Victoria are mere traps which ought not to have been set, and ought not to remain. I see that by the Acts of Queen Anne, and by the Acts of Her present Majesty, the clerks in the Post Office are not permitted to open letters unless by an express warrant in writing, signed by the Secretary of State. What am I, an unlearned person, to infer from such a law, except this, that with such a warrant, this proceeding is perfectly justifiable; and if I am now to
 986 987 988 989 990 991 Hamlet, Rosencrantz Guildenstern "Your Committee would have abstained
 992 993 Wortley 994 995
 Mr. B. Cochrane  would merely trouble the House with one or two observations, to show why he voted on this occasion with Her Majesty's Government, and refused to support the Amendment proposed by the noble Lord. He considered that two points had been established, namely, that the power exercised by the right hon. Baronet was a constitutional power, and also that that power must, of necessity, be exercised in a secret manner. The very manner in which the power was exercised was the only way in which it could be employed consistently with its design. The seals were placed on the letters, so that the parties to whom those letters were addressed might not know that the letters had been opened. He could perfectly understand that such a power as this must be employed in a secret manner, and that being the case, how could the hon. Member for Finsbury suppose that the right hon. Baronet could give the information required? The hon. Member
 949 950
 Mr. Disraeli : Having already spoken to the question before the House, I have
 1005 1006 R. Peel;
 Mr. Hawes  objected to the clause, on account of the nature of the remedy provided by it.
 Colonel Sibthorp  objected to allow these companies to pay up their capitals by instalments, or by "calls." He would have the whole subscription paid at once. This system of calls enabled railway schemes to be taken up, as was truly said by an hon. Member opposite, by "men of straw." They got up those schemes without a shilling in the world, and then they went over the country under the pretence of making surveys. He himself could not endure to have his property entered upon, and his trees cut down by these marauders. He would say that at least two-thirds of the capital ought to be subscribed at first. He knew how the schemes were got up. People who knew nothing about these things were humbugged [ a laugh. 931 l.,
 Mr. Strutt , in explanation, said that the right hon. Member for Devonport had fallen into a mistake when he represented him as having said, that in the course of last Session the hon. Member for Finsbury had not complained of his letters being opened. He had not said that, because that would have been contrary to the fact. The effect of what he had said was, that in the first debate on this subject, and before the Committee had been formed, he had not brought forward the charge with the same distinctness that he now preferred it; he did not then state that he was prepared with evidence to show that his letters had been opened; he had said something of bags being tampered with, and that it might have been for the purpose of opening his letters. The main charge at that time made by the hon. Member for Finsbury, was as to the opening of foreign letters, and not as to opening his own letters. Another point in which the right hon. Gentleman had mistaken him, was as to his having giving reasons why the Committee reported upon certain cases, and not as to others. What he had stated in his speech was, as to the circumstances which marked and distinguished one set of cases, and from which it might be inferred why there was not a particular reference to others.
 Mr. Strutt : I am anxious, Sir, as a Member of the Committee to which so many allusions have been made, to offer a few remarks upon the subject of this discussion. I am anxious to add my testimony to that of the noble Chairman of the Committee, and of my hon. Friend the Member for Kendal—that nothing could be more full, more open, or more voluntary, than the evidence tendered to that Committee by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and of the Members of the present and late Government. I am sure, Sir, that the Members of that Committee will agree with me in this statement that if their Report be defective, it has not been in consequence of a want of any evidence. It has been said that our Report is extremely defective; inasmuch as it does not communicate all the information which it should communicate. I beg the House to consider the position in which the Committee were placed. I would remind them that when the Committee was moved for, it was stated by the Ministers of the Crown in this House, the Committee would necessarily inquire into matters of the most secret and confidential character, and that consequently, in their opinion, information could not be given unless the proceedings were secret. The House concurred in that opinion. I took no part in the discussion; but the House unanimously decided that the Committee should be a Secret Committee. Of course the witnesses who came before us came avowedly upon the understanding that they were confiding their most important statements to our honour, otherwise their evidence would not be given. If the Members of this House now wish to repudiate the decision they came to then in acceding to the proposal that the Committee should be a secret one,
 942 943 944 945
 Mr. Muntz —Before the debate came to a close, wished to assure the Secretary for the Home Department, that he did not mean to cast any reflection or reproach upon him; for, on the contrary, he thought that more had been cast upon him than ought to have been done. What had the Home Secretary done? Followed the acts of his predecessors. He did not acquiesce as to the propriety of what had been done as to foreigners, for that, he thought, was the worst part of the question. He had an extremely strong opinion as to the opening of letters. The public, too, had a very strong opinion about it. It had been stated the other night, that it had been long known to exist. Now, he could assure the House he had not yet recovered from the feeling that he experienced when he was told of it. The first time he heard of it, he utterly denied it. He thought it was a practice confined to the despotic States of the south of Europe—that it was to be found only in the dominions of the Autocrat of Russia and the despot of Prussia. He thought, that every man's letter was as safe as his house door. It was disgraceful to every Government; it was disgraceful to the present—it was disgraceful to former Governments—it was disgraceful to the whole country, and he hoped it would be very soon got rid of.
 Mr. Aglionby  thought the noble Lord's suggestion would meet the object he had in view.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that before the Speaker left the Chair he should wish to give notice to the noble Lord the Chancellor for the Duchy of Lancaster, that in one of the clauses he should wish to have an alteration made, as respected public footpaths. As the law at present stood, railways might intersect footpaths which had been enjoyed from time immemorial—which led to church or to village, or to market—and they would not even be required to lay so much as a plank across, the only thing incumbent on them being a necessity of making some thoroughfare, however inconvenient—as for instance, they might make a passage beneath a railway, approached on the one side by a descent of steps, and ascending on the other side in the same manner. He should wish the clause postponed, in order to place public footpaths on the same footing with public horseways or carriage ways.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that it was intended the reduction should take place immediately after the day on which the Resolutions should have been agreed to in the Committee, without waiting for the passing of the Bill.
 Mr. J. Collett , in resuming the debate, said, that before entering on the general question, he wished to say a few words with respect to the adjournment last night. No person could regret more than he did the inconvenience to which the right hon. Baronet had been put; but in the first place, considering the importance of the subject, and that it involved considerations with respect to the liberty of the subject, and the rights of Members of Parliament, he considered he was justified in demanding an adjournment. In the second place, he thought that the state of public feeling required a full discussion on the subject. In the third place, he thought he was justified in moving that adjournment, by the lateness of the hour when the noble Lord's (Lord Howick's) Amendment was brought forward. In the fourth place, he thought an adjournment was due to the Speaker, who
 933 Hamlet 934 bonâ fide
 Mr. Colquhoun  observed, that the honourable feeling displayed in the speech just delivered, was quite refreshing in the midst of what had been, in some respects, an acrimonious debate. He would first consider what was the proposition of the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland (Lord Howick); and secondly, what it was not. If the opinion of all Members were asked whether it were not desirable to abolish such a power, if it were possible, their answers would be universally in the affirmative; but all would admit that it must be a matter of extreme difficulty to withdraw such a power altogether from the hands of the Government. The hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Strutt) said, regulate the power, but do not withdraw it. The hon. Member for Sheffield believed it necessary;
 946 947
 Mr. Wawn  protested that it was an exceedingly hard clause. If it passed the Committee, a shareholder would be precluded from disposing of his shares until he had paid up the whole of his calls. Now, a call might be made for a particular day; and, in the interim, no one could transfer his stock. This was extremely hard; and unless the Government had some strong grounds to support it, he thought it ought to be either struck out or postponed.
 Mr. Henley  could not see why these new companies should have any powers, as regarded their servants, which the old companies did not possess. The right hon. Gentleman said, there could be no possible justification for detaining books and papers. Why it might be that that was the only way in which a clerk could prove that the company were indebted to him. The observation of the hon. Member for Birmingham was a very striking one. By this law they imprisoned a man because he did not give up books, and then they kept him in prison because he did not make up his accounts, although no facilities were provided for such a purpose.
 Mr. Henley  denied that a call became a debt payable immediately on being made. He apprehended a call stood upon the same principle as rent, for which no distraint could be made until the expiration of the quarter. So of a call; it could not be legally demanded until the time allowed for payment had expired.
 Mr. Blewitt  could only say for himself, that if he had discovered that the right hon. Gentleman had opened any letters of his, he should have felt bound to pursue precisely the same course as the hon. Member for Finsbury—and he would further say that if any
 951 Ego et Rex meus Ego et Regina mea. 952
 Mr. Spooner  said, as the party was to be imprisoned, in the absence of bail, until he had made up his accounts, facilities ought to be afforded to him for that purpose.
 Mr. T. Duncombe , in reply, said, that after three nights' debate he should occupy the time of the House but a very few minutes. He must, however, in answer to the right hon. Gentleman, that he and others meditated injustice to the Government, say that was not true. But the Government continued to do him injustice. They denied to him that justice which, he said, he had a right to demand. That injustice was meditated by the right hon. Baronet and his Colleagues. The simple proposition of the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland was to supply an omission on the part of the Committee. The right hon. Gentleman resisted that proposition. He would not allow that to be done, because he said it reflected censure upon the Government. The Government said they had acted so purely—they had exercised their power purely. Well, then, the more their conduct was inquired into, the more it was examined, the more that purity would appear on an examination. He had been accused by the right hon. Member the Secretary at War with being actuated by a hostile feeling towards the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, and that it was to gratify that wish, and not to elicit truth, that he sought for this inquiry. As the noble Lord the Member for London had remarked, it was not the practice of men who did not wish for the elucidation of truth to seek an inquiry. Now he asked for an inquiry; and then it was said it was not truth he was seeking for, but to gratify personal motives. He disclaimed the personal motives attributed to him. He complained of a practice—against whom was he to direct that attack? He found that the Secretary for the Home Department had issued warrants. Now, who was he to go and attack? Was it the Lord Chancellor or the Lord Chamberlain? No, he must direct his attack against the Home Secretary. He knew that the rest of the Government were responsible; but he must look to the Minister who had issued the warrant; and whether it was the right hon. Gentleman opposite to him, or a right hon. Gentleman sitting near him, he would have attacked them in the same way if he thought such had exercised power in the same manner as the right hon. Baronet had done. The right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government said that he had chosen his own tribunal, and the verdict
 1018 1019 1020 1021
 Mr. Ridley Colborne  said, that if the question before the House had merely affected the hon. Member for Finsbury he should have been content to have given his negative to the hon. Gentleman's proposition; but the Amendment proposed by the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland made it necessary for him to explain the reason of the vote which he should give on the present occasion. Frequent allusions had been made to the proceedings of the Committee of the House of Lords on this subject, the Chairman of which was a noble relative of his; and having taken considerable interest in the proceedings of that Committee, it was but natural that he should look with more than usual anxiety to the fate of the present Motion. His noble Friend undertook the office of Chairman to their Lordships' Committee with the greatest unwillingness, feeling it to be a task which it was most difficult to fulfil in a satisfactory way, because it was almost impossible to prepare a Report that could fail either to dissatisfy the parties calling for the inquiry, or inflict a severe rebuke on Her Majesty's Government. But a
 935 936
 Mr. Ferrand : When this question, Sir, was before the House during the last Session, I studiously avoided taking any part in the discussion, because, so soon after I myself had been engaged in a personal altercation with the right hon. the Secretary of State for the Home Department, I doubted whether I could, unbiassed by personal feeling, give a vote upon the question. But, Sir, I paid a studious attention to the debates; I heard the statements of the hon. Member for Finsbury; and when I heard the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government object to that hon. Member being upon the Committee, he distinctly said that justice should be done to all parties by that Committee. That Committee has sat, and has reported to this House. The hon. Member has come to this House and declared in his place that that Committee has not done justice to him. Sir, in the last Session of Parliament the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department declared that he placed his honour in the hands of that Committee, confident that they would do justice to him; and he reserved to himself a right of appeal to this House. Now, Sir, I should like to know upon what grounds the right hon. Baronet has a right to reserve to himself an appeal to this House, and refuse it to the hon. Member for Finsbury?
 937 Quarterly Review The Times. 938 "In consequence of the recent division of the metropolis into sections by the League, for the purpose of carrying on the Anti-Corn Law agitation, the first great district public meeting, section No. 1, of the Metropolitan Anti-Corn Law League was held last night in the Mechanics' Institution, Southampton-buildings; there were 800 persons present, including at least 100 females." "The Chairman made a speech, and called upon Mr. Villiers to propose a resolution, which was seconded by Mr. Ricardo. Mr. Ewart proposed the next resolution, and said when things came to that pass, it would be better for every Englishman who loved his country to sacrifice his life in maintaining his liberty." 939 940 mandamus mandamus, A laugh J. Graham: 941 mandamus
 Mr. Hayter  approved of the clause. It would put an end to an extremely bad practice which existed amongst railway share speculators. They entered into engagements without the least probability of their ever being able to meet them; and when they became deeply involved for calls, they shook off their responsibility by transferring
 930
 Mr. Watson  thought the attack that had
 957 958 "This Act gives no power to the Secretary of State to detain or open letters, but prohibits others from doing so, except by an express warrant in writing, under the hand of the Principal Secretary, for any such opening or detaining." 959 960 North Briton. "A warrant was granted by Lord Halifax the Secretary of State, directing a messenger to apprehend and seize the printer and publisher of a paper called the  North Briton, 961 Magna Charta, "To enter a house by a nameless warrant, in order to seize there, is worse than the Spanish Inquisition." "It would be a law under which no Englishman would wish to live an hour. It was a most daring public attack made upon the liberty of the subject." North Briton, State Trials, "It began at the Revolution," said his Lordship, "and is too modern to be law. The Common Law does not begin with the Revolution. The warrant," he added, "was an execution in the first instance, without previous information, or hearing of the plaintiff—a power claimed by no other magistrate whatsoever, Chief Justice Scroggs excepted. It was argued that if the Secretary of State had power to commit in treason, he hath it in lesser crimes. This I deny." Justice Rokeby said, "he is only a conservator of the peace. There is no law, and less justice, to justify the defendants in what they have done; if there was it would destroy all comfort in society, for papers are often the dearest property that a man can have." 962 963 "So far as the criminal warrants go, no suspicion arises that unfairness or partiality has directed their issue. With regard to the other class of warrants, though there have been some few issued by different Administrations that have been in power during the last twenty-two years, in regard to which it is obvious, that on a subsequent review of the facts, a difference of opinion might arise as to the discretion exercised in each particular case; yet your Committee see no reason to doubt that the conduct of the Secretaries of State belonging to each of those Administrations,
 964 965 966 967 primâ facie,
 Mr. W. Williams  was quite sure that if the letters of other Members had been opened, they would have been as indignant at the insult as the hon. Member for Finsbury. It could not be forgotten that when inquiry was originally proposed, Ministers had offered the strongest resistance to the Motion; and when at last they were driven to concede a Committee, they resolved that it should be secret, and should consist only of persons of their own selection. He had, therefore, moved that the two hon. Members for Finsbury and Montrose should be placed upon it, and he had taken a division as to the former. Nevertheless, the hon. Member had been excluded, in direct violation of the ordinary practice of the House; and, as might have been expected, the Report of the partial Committee had given anything but satisfaction to the country. Strange as it might appear, they had not taken the slightest notice of the most important part of the case—the opening of the letters of the hon. Member for Finsbury—and had touched only upon the opening of the letters of the two foreigners. The hon. Member who spoke last, and others on the same side of the question, had utterly failed in making out any defence; and the hon. Member for Finsbury justly felt himself insulted, and that a lasting stigma was cast upon him, unless the inquiry which he challenged were conceded. He had gone before the Committee and claimed to be heard; but the Committee had not shown the sympathy which they ought not only to have felt, but to have expressed in their Report. Why had it not been stated openly that there was or was not a warrant under which the letters of the hon. Member for Finsbury had been opened? The right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) and the hon. and learned Member for Bute had, not in direct terms, but by implication, cast a stigma upon the hon. Member for Finsbury, and had argued that the opening of his letters was justifiable; and he (Mr. Williams) was glad to hear that his hon. Friend was resolved, consistently with his
 948
 Sir George Grey  said, that it was not his intention to express any opinion as to the differences which existed between the right hon. Gentleman on this question,
 1008 1009 1010 1011 1012 1013 1014
 Sir J. Hanmer  rose to explain:—The right hon. Gentleman at the head of Her Majesty's Government has made some observations as to the Amendment proposed by the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland, and I therefore deem it right that I should state what I know with regard to that Amendment; because the right hon. Gentleman has indulged in some observations, in which he appeared to me severely to impugn the right of those hon. Gentlemen who sit on this side of the House to act in the manner in which, as I am about to state frankly and boldly, I have done. I am not about to utter again my opinion with respect to the conduct complained of by the hon. Member for Finsbury. I stated that opinion frankly and boldly on a former night; and the House will do me the justice to acknowledge, whether that opinion was correct, or whether it was erroneous, that I strictly confined my observations to the case of the hon. Member himself. I said, that I put on one side the question with respect to Mr. Mazzini, because, if that alone had been brought under the consideration of the House, as I had thought it would have been, I should have voted against the Motion. I am speaking, Sir, on a serious question, which concerns the independence of Parliament. Well, Sir, I was anxious to confine my observations to the case of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Finsbury. I spoke to that effect, and if I did not speak so forcibly to that effect as I could wish, that was my intention. I thought that a great many extraneous observations had been introduced into the debate; but I was exceedingly desirous that justice should be done to the hon. Gentleman. When I came down to the House I spoke to my noble Friend the Member for Newark, who is sitting beside me (Lord J. Manners), and expressed to him my great desire that this question should be confined within those limits. I wrote upon a scrap of paper, which I believe I have in my pocket now, an Amendment, not in the exact words, but precisely to the effect of the Amendment proposed by the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland. Sitting here in my place, the noble
 1007
 Mr. Jervis  wished to state briefly his reasons for voting in favour of the Amendment of the noble Lord. Seeing, he said, the mode in which the personal allusion to the hon. Member for Shrewsbury had been received by the House, he should not long delay them, but state the reasons very shortly that were a justification, as he had conceived, for the vote he was about to give. He was glad that the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government had availed himself of the forms of the House to explain the observations which he had made upon a former occasion, because he had felt, like many others, that those observations were applicable to the hon. Member for Finsbury, and he was afraid that so the country had construed them. Certainly the hon. and learned Member for Bute had put that construction upon them. It had been said by that hon. and learned Member that his hon. Friend brought forward Motions in this House in connexion with the
 1015 Cheers. 1016
 Sir R. Peel  thought it would be better to take the sense of the House on the question originally before it. Of course it was competent for any hon. Member to object to the withdrawal of the Motion, and thus compel a division; but if he understood it to be the wish of the hon. Gentleman opposite at once to take the sense of the House upon that Motion, on which the greatest amount of opinion was concentrated against the course the
 1022
 Sir R. Peel  said: Sir, in consequence of the Amendment which has been proposed by the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland, I am enabled to address you for the second time during this debate without any breach of the forms of this House; but as I have already declared fully and explicitly my sentiments upon the subject of the original Motion, I shall not avail myself of the privilege to enter into the subject on this occasion. There are, however, one or two points which have been adverted to in the course of the debate, with respect to which I wish to offer a few observations. It has been implied in the course of the debate—an hon. Member who spoke last night seemed
 996 997 998 "Give me the avowed, erect, and manly foe; Firm I can meet, perhaps can turn the blow; But of all plagues, good Heaven, thy wrath can send, Save, O save me, from a candid friend!" adverso fronte. 999 1000 "I have this moment read a speech of Mr. Disraeli's in which, though my name is not mentioned, it is impossible for me, in reference to the situation which I have the honour to hold, and the kindness with which you were pleased to speak of me in the debate of last year, to misunderstand. It charges me with being concerned in Colonel Despard's plot. I find, on referring to the  State Trials, "However, that I may not be charged with withholding from you or others anything which could have given rise by possibility to such a misrepresentation, I should state that it was my misfortune (or still more his against whom no specific charge was ever made), that my half-brother, fifteen years older than myself was, with Lord Cloncurry, under the suspension of the  habeas corpus, 1001 1002 T. Duncombe: 1003 1004
 Sir William Clay  begged leave to put a question to the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the subject of the Sugar Duties. He wished to know what was the intention of Her Majesty's Government as to the time when the proposed alteration in the Sugar Duties should be carried into effect after the passing of the Bill?
 Mr. Williams  said, he wished to ask the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he had reconsidered the determination to which he said, on Friday last, he had come, in reference to the Sugar Duties taking effect from the day on which the Resolution should pass? The reason he asked the question was, that several communications had been received by him from Sugar Merchants, complaining of the haste manifested by Her Majesty's Government in coming to this determination, inasmuch as that those merchants had large stocks on hand, and they would, therefore be seriously affected by the change, if a drawback were not allowed until they had disposed of their stock on hand.
 Mr. James  said, that after the allusions which had been made to him by the hon. Member for Dumfries, it might not be improper for him to rise for the purpose of making a few remarks early in the debate. In the last Session of Parliament he, as one of the West India Proprietors, was amongst those who ventured to make an appeal to the justice and sympathy of the Government on behalf of the distressed West India interest; and it was most gratifying to find that the appeal had not been altogether made in vain. He was anxious to avail himself of this, the first opportunity which had been afforded to him, to offer respectfully his thanks to the right hon. Baronet for the relief which he had felt it to be consistent with his public duty to offer to the West India interest—a relief which he could assure him was much wanted by that body. Whether it would be sufficient to enable them to cultivate their estates with much profit he did not know; but he did hope that, at least, it would be the means of securing them from those extremely heavy losses which they had had to sustain by keeping their estates in cultivation for the last two or three years, in the hope of the arrival of better times. With respect to the question before the House, he certainly gave credit to the hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester for the best intentions in bringing this subject forward. He believed that the hon. Gentleman's object was to give cheap sugar to the people, and not to court popularity. But he must confess that the hon. Gentleman was not very par-
 1070 s. d. d. d. Hamlet, Hamlet. l., s. s. s. s. s. 1071 1072 l.
 Mr. Villiers  said, it was rather remarkable that the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down should have proposed to his hon. Friend the Member for Stoke-upon-Trent to satisfy himself and the House as to the soundness of his opinion on the question then before them, by visiting his constituents and asking them whether they agreed to the doctrine of free trade or not. If it was meant to decide whether the doctrine of free trade or that of impeding commerce was the wisest by such a test, he thought the right hon. Baronet might already enlighten them a good deal on the point after the recent visit he had made to his constituents: he could tell them how far he considered the constituencies of this country appeared disposed to support those views of obstructing trade which the right hon. Baronet advocated. He perceived that the right hon. Baronet recognised his allusion to his late reception by his constituency. The weather was still in about the same state as when the right hon. Baronet had experienced the feelings of his constituents towards him; and if his hon. Friend (Mr. Ricardo) went down as he (Sir G. Clerk) had invited him to do, he scarcely thought he would meet with similar proofs of the opinion of his constituents, in consequence of his avowal of the doctrine of free trade. On the other hand, he thought that the right hon. Baronet had not much improved his chances of a more favourable reception from his constituents by the opinions which he had just expressed, and the speech which had just been delivered by him. With every respect for the right hon. Baronet personally, he did not think that he had much raised himself by that speech. He did not mean to say that the right hon. Baronet's address was not a fair average speech for a functionary of a Government; but it seemed to him to be that sort of a speech which might have been drawn at any time from a pigeonhole of the Board of Trade, where it might have lain untouched for the last twenty years, and brought out to be used in the absence of an answer or an argument suited to the question. It was really a tissue of common-place of vague generality, of that sort of evasion of the question
 1088 l. 1089 1090 s. d. l. 1091 l. Bernal: 1092 d. s. d. 1093 1094 Member: 1095 Bernal: "That during the late war, and while still supplied with slaves from Africa, the planters complained of inadequate returns, and of unequal competition in foreign markets. These results were then ascribed to the circumstances of the war, which have long ceased, and were necessarily independent of the causes now alleged. Your Committee are well aware that this similarity of complaint, and discrepancy of assigned reasons, must occasion some distrust of the accuracy of those which are now put forward." "The existence of severe commercial distress (he says) amongst all classes of society connected with the West Indies, is unhappily but too evident. Yet what is the just inference from this admitted fact? Not that the body should yield to despair, but that we should deliberately retrace the steps of that policy which has led to so disastrous an issue. Without denying the concurrence of many causes, it is obvious that the great and permanent source of that distress which almost every page of the history of the West Indies records, is to be found in the institution of slavery. It is vain to hope for long-continued prosperity in any country in which the people are not dependent on their own voluntary labour for support, in which labour is not prompted by legitimate motives, and does not earn its natural reward I cannot but regard the system itself as the perennial spring of those distresses of which, not at present merely, but during the whole of
 1096 1097 1098 l. l. 1099
 Mr. Cardwell  would trespass but shortly on the time of the House, and confine himself to replying to observations that bore directly on the subject of debate, abstaining from those extraneous topics which it appeared to him had been unnecessarily introduced into the discussion. The noble Lord the Member for Sunderland had called it a stale trick of the Treasury Bench to meet free-trade notions by the general allegation that they were founded on abstract principles, and had no practical object in view. If it were a stale device, the fault did not rest with the Treasury Bench; for it was—he did not say a stale device, but certainly by no means an infrequent practice, on the other side, to bring forward sweeping Motions founded upon principles which in the abstract they knew were not disputed—motions on which they relied because they carried with them a certain amount of plausibility, and threw upon their opponents the necessity of entering into the complicated relations of our commercial system, and bringing forward the less obvious and superficial, but sounder and mere pertinent arguments supplied by a practical application of circumstances, facts, and figures. The Motion before the House was a broad assertion of free-trade doctrines in their bearing upon the commodity
 1137 Member: 1138 s. 1139 1140
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that many different reasons had combined to prevent him from addressing the House on the present question. One of those reasons he admitted to have been the reason which had influenced the noble Lord the Member for Bath—and he would not have addressed the House at all if he had not been anxious to say a very few words in answer to some of the observations of the hon. Member opposite. He was desirous, for many reasons, to reserve the statement of his opinions until the whole subject was before the House on the Motion of the noble Lord. The present sub-
 1149 s. Cobden 1150
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he received daily several communications upon the subject of the hon. Member's question. But there existed great difference of opinion amongst those who were most nearly concerned. It seemed quite certain that if a future day was named for the duties being taken off, no sugar would be taken out of bond in the interval. Therefore, upon full consideration of all the applications made to the Government, he thought it would be better to say nothing further at present than that he would, on Wednesday, be prepared to say what course he intended to take as to fixing a day for the Resolution to taka effect.
 Mr. Labouchere  would detain the House only for a few moments; but having so often had occasion to address the House on the subject of the Sugar Duties, he was unwilling to let the present occasion pass without offering a few observations. He did not conceive that the present was the occasion to discuss the scheme of Her Majesty's Government—a scheme to which he had great objections. He rejoiced that the Motion of his noble Friend the Member for the City of London would afford him an early opportunity of stating his objections to that plan. At present he should only say this, that one of his objections to the scheme was, that it was not only intrinsically bad in many respects, but that instead of bringing the Sugar Duties to a point of greatly diminished protection, it would, by aggravating the protection that already existed, greatly increase the difficulty of dealing with the question in future, even on the principles which the right hon. Member for Newark laid down. But he conceived that the question now was, whether the House would at once completely and effectually substitute for the present system of differential duties a system of perfect equality between the sugar of our own Colonies and that of other countries. That was the question, fairly stated by the hon. Member for Manchester, and his noble Friend the Member for Sunderland; because he agreed that if it could be considered in any other light than a proposition for a sudden and immediate change, nothing could be more unwise than that Parliament should condemn the difference of duties, and not proceed to equalize them. This would introduce universal confusion, and paralyse all the branches of the sugar trade. The House must treat the Motion as one to equalize the duties upon Foreign and Colonial sugar. He was bound to say on this occasion—such being the
 1126 1127
 Mr. Bright  said, the hon. Member who had last sat down had taken upon himself to assert that the proposition submitted to the House by his hon. Friend was of an abstract character. There was, however, some evidence that some hon. Members did think it something more than an abstract Motion. The hon. Member for Cumberland, who was himself a West India proprietor, he had not seen in the House, to the best of his recollection, since the Sugar Duties were under discussion last year; and if, as he understood, the hon. Member came from a distant capital of Europe to
 1141 s. d. 1142 s. d. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. 1143 l., l. l. 1144 1145 A Vindication of Ministers against the Supposition that they had attacked the West India Interest; "Now, it is worth while for a moment to consider who are the Members of this Administration, which is supposed to have pursued a course of so much severity towards the colonists of the West Indies. Of Sir Robert Peel it may be sufficient to say, in this place, that he has always acted with that party in the State which has been deemed most friendly to the Colonial interests. Among his colleagues in the Cabinet there are three, and three only, who can be said to have a special and departmental concern with the question of the Sugar Duties, namely, the Colonial Secretary, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the Presi-
 1146 l. 1147 l. l. 1148 l.
 Mr. Ricardo  thought that if he wished, like the hon. Member who had just sat down, to speak in favour of one class, he might easily find means to make out a case. The abolition of the export duty on coals was a matter of some importance to his constituents; and the earthenware of foreign countries might be brought into competition with their earthenware, in consequence of the regulations of the right hon. Baronet allowing coal, clay, and iron to be exported free; but his constituents were not so ungenerous as to look to their own interests alone; they were willing to trust to their own resources, considering
 1073 "I know it will be said that this trade is now in a flourishing condition; but we must not disregard the formidable competition to which it is exposed; we must consider how materially this cotton manufacture has contributed to the strength of the country, how materially it aided in enabling us to go through successfully that great conflict in which we were some thirty years ago engaged—what thousands and tens of thousands of persons there are who are indebted to it for their occupation and subsistence. Seeing and considering these things—seeing the amount of duty imposed upon the coarser fabrics—seeing the extent of competition to which they are exposed—seeing the importance of this manufacture to the commercial greatness of this country, we are prepared to advise the abolition of the duty upon cotton wool. The estimated loss to the Revenue by the abolition of the duty on cotton wool, taking as a guide the amount received last year, will not be less than 680,000 l. Hansard 1074 "That no arrangement of the Sugar Duties will be satisfactory and permanent, which does not involve an equalization of duty on Foreign and Colonial sugar." ad valorem 1075 "It is almost ludicrous to find ourselves thus travelling backward in commercial legislation; neither Mr. Vansittart, nor any of his predecessors, ever sought to introduce any measure more annoying or vexatious in its operation than this is likely to be. Every mat or bag of sugar, say upwards of 700,000 to the port of London alone, will require to be specially examined and decided upon by a Custom House officer—who must stand, 'test in hand,' to pronounce authoritatively upon a differential duty against the importer to the extent of 17 per cent, on the 14 s. s. l. Gazette, s. s., s. l. 1076 l. s. s. d. s. d. s. 
 
 15,000 tons at the 28 s. 
 5,000 tons at the 23 s. d. s. d. £23,333 
 70,000 tons at the 16 s. d. s. d. s. s. d. 816,666 
 160,000 tons at the 14 s. s. s. d. s. d. s. 2,240,000 
 £3,079,999 d. s. 1077 l. l. l., l. 1078
 Mr. P. W. Miles  said, he could hardly expect, after the assertions which the hon. Member for Wolverhampton had just made, that any one would believe what he, a West Indian proprietor, might state. But he believed it was an admitted fact that these Colonies had for a long time past been suffering under severe distress, that capital
 1100 1101 1102 1103
 Mr. Cobden  said, that he had taken some pains to justify himself, as the present was a question on which he had suffered some little obloquy some months ago. He had made inquiries in the city, and found that the proposal of the Government was Mr. Miles's proposition over again. They had not only got the Measure of last year, but they had got something worse. Now he had been rather ill-used in this matter. The right hon. Baronet was disposed to have a flirtation with the free traders' principles, and for a time they had been charmed with the constancy of his attachment. Now, if the right hon. Baronet went back to his first love, he must not expect to pass muster for a free trader. The right hon. Baronet had done something in the way of fiscal changes. He had taken money from the pockets of the people by the Income Tax, and restored something to them in the shape of cotton and glass duties. But on the whole, speaking as a free trader, with the Government Sugar Measures
 1128 1129 1130 1131 in formâ pauperis, s. s. James: 1132 Jamaica Times s. s. d. "I grant you that an absentee proprietor can never expect to get anything out of his estates; first, the attorney, then the overseer, then the bookkeepers, and though last not least, the merchants in Kingston must have their portions before a single shilling can be remitted to the proprietor in England. Let that proprietor, however, come out and look after his own business, and a very different result would very soon be apparent. My friend Mr—, resided in England, and his estate was bringing him into debt year after year; he came out, made 110 hogsheads of sugar and sixty puncheons of rum, purchased stock and repaired his buildings for 1,100 l. l. "Mr.—, (a creole and a man of colour)
 1133 l. l. l., "Who" (the writer says) "shipped ninety hogsheads of sugar, and the usual (one-third) quantity of rum, at a total outlay, from first to last, of 900 l. "Mr. —, who has, by adhering to a principle which he laid down some five years ago of confining his cultivation to the quantity of land which he could properly manure, made a small fortune out of — estate in St. Thomas in the Vale, and which was considered one of die poorest in the district." "Mr.—, who lives like a gentleman, and is a good planter, leases property, which had been sinking money for years, at a rental of twenty tons of sugar per annum. He has this year made 100 hhds., and will clear 800 l. "Mr. — (who came here as a clerk some few yean ago), purchased an estate for 60,000 l. l. l. l. 1134 "The radical vice in our system is, we have too much land; if proprietors would only cultivate what they can properly manure they would do well, but they grasp at large fields, and an overseer must boast to his attorney that he has sixty, eighty, or 100 acres in plants. Where he tells the attorney that be had only fifteen, twenty, or twenty-five acres, but that he was properly manuring them, and keeping down expenditure, he would get his "ticket," as lazy and incompetent; and thus it is, always has been and, I fear, ever will be. If the absentee proprietor does not choose to come and look after his estate he mutt be victimized: I say nothing of many instances of abuses which have lately been exposed. It is not for me to speak of the faults of others, but, knowing what I have stated to be true, how can I join in the cry that we are ruined?" 1135 s. d. 1136
 Mr. Milner Gibson  rose to move the Amendment of which he had given notice, and said: If the House will give me indulgence for a short period, I will endeavour, as briefly as may be consistent with a clear exposition of the views I entertain, to explain the grounds why I have thonght
 1044 "That no arrangement of the Sugar Duties will be satisfactory and permanent, which does not involve an equalization of Duty on Foreign and Colonial Sugar." 1045 1046 s. s. 1047 s. s. s. s. s. s., s. s. s., s. s. s. s., s. s. s. s. s. s., s. s. s. s., s., s. s., s. 1048 s. s. s. l. l. l., l. l. 1049 l. l. 1050 l. l. l. l. 1051 l. s. d. l. s. d. s. d. l., 1052 l. s. d. s. d. Reporter Economist "The Clarendon Agricultural Society gave a prize of 20 l., s. d. s. d. 1053 s. d., s. d. s. d. s. s. s., s., s. s. s. 1054 "He would venture to say this, with respect to the expense of cultivation, that there was no single instance in which this natural consequence had not followed as effect and cause,— namely, that when they gave to the negro labourer an interest in the amount of work to be performed, and in the amount of produce raised, then they would obtain constant and industrious labourers; but when they did not give that interest they would not obtain them. The amount of competition carried on there at present was ruinous. The planters were competing with each other in this way, by employing their labourers for a certain time, and paying them accordingly; and not giving the labourers an interest in their work, by awarding according to the actual portion done This, he thought, was a great cause of the ruinous expense which the planters were now subject to in the West India Colonies." l. 1055 1056 1057 West Indian, "We have repeatedly declared our conviction, that obstinate perseverance in the use of manual labour, in the production of sugar, must prove ruinous; the only safe alternative if to resort to a plan which, in a great measure, would supersede its use." 1058 1059 1060 s. s. s. s. l. l. l. s. 1061 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., 1062 1063 1064 1065
 Mr. W. E. Gladstone : I for one do not intend, Sir, to follow the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland, in what he has said with reference to the question of slavery and the Slave Trade. This important subject we shall on a future occasion have an opportunity of fully discussing. The few words I have to say upon the subject at present will be entirely of a defensive character. I quite concur in the sentiments of regret expressed by the noble Lord (Lord Howick) at the departure from this world of a man of considerable emi-
 1119 1120 l. s. l. l. s. d., s. s., l. l. Howick: s. s., s. d. 1121 1122 1123 1124 s. d. s. d. s., s. s. s. 1125
 Mr. Ewart  said, he did not regret, but rejoiced, that his hon. Friend (Mr. Gibson), in a moment of inspiration, had taken this cause out of his hands; the magnitude of his constituency, and the ability with which he advocated their common principles, entitled him to discharge the duty upon which he had voluntarily and properly entered. He regretted, however, that those who occupied the Bench below (the front Opposition Bench) had not earlier brought this important subject under the consideration of the House; and that the noble Lord the Member for London, instead of moving an Amendment with regard to the relative proportions of duty, did not meet the whole question by boldly moving the equalization of the duties on Foreign and Colonial sugar. He should rather have seen that noble Lord, instead of engaging in a system (if he might so call it) of flirtation with free trade, entering into the holy bonds of matrimony with her. When he thought of the position of that noble Lord and of free trade, he was sometimes inclined to quote the lines often cited before—
 "Libertas: quæ sera tamen respexit inertem; Candidior postquam tondenti barba cadebat: Respexit tamen, et longo post tempore venit." 1066 1067 1068 ad valorem 1069
 Sir G. Clerk : After the repeated discussions which have taken place upon this subject, and feeling with the hon. Member for Manchester how very little abstract discussions are suited to the taste of this House, I shall, upon the abstract part of the question, touch lightly indeed. The hon. Members for Manchester and Stoke-upon-Trent, who have addressed the House with so much ability, although they began with observations directed against the maintenance of all protective duties whatsoever, found it more convenient to confine their subsequent observations to the subject matter now before us—as to whether any protection should be granted to the Colonial producers of sugar, than to argue the question upon general grounds. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Stoke-upon-Trent said, if particular interests were to be considered in dealing with the proposed changes, that he might put in a claim on behalf of his constituents. The removal of the duty on coal will affect them little indeed, and he might easily take credit for being generous upon such a point. But I should like to know what sort of a reception the hon. Gentleman would receive from his constituents, if he were to propose to them the removal of the duty on French porcelains and china. [Mr.  Ricardo Ricardo 1079 1080 s. 1081 l., l., s. s. l. s., s., s. s., 1082 s. s. s. s. 1083 s. s. s. l. l. l. l. 1084 l., 1085 Hawes: 1086 1087
 Sir R. Peel  said, that negotiations had been entered into on the subject with France and Belgium, for the purpose of giving facilities to the book trade in those countries and in this. These negotiations were carried on for some time, but they did not lead to any final or satisfactory result. Negotiations were afterwards entered into with Prussia; and, after a certain time, it was alleged on the part of Prussia that the law of copyright in this country was defective, and ought to be amended. Since that time two Bills had passed Parliament to amend the law of copyright, and diminishing the objections raised by Prussia. The negotiations with Prussia were now renewed, and in the event of their being brought to a satisfactory conclusion, similar negotiations might be entered into with other countries. If the result of the negotiations with Prussia should not be satisfactory, he (Sir R. Peel) would have no objection to lay the correspondence before the House. In a short time he would be able to inform his noble Friend whether the negotiations had been brought to a close.
 Viscount Howick  said: I think, Sir, the House can hardly have failed to observe that the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, being a great West India
 1104 l., Miles: 1105 s. Cries s. s. s. l. l., 1106 s. d., s. s. d., s. l. l. l., 1107 1108 l. 1109 s. l. 1110 l. 1111 1112 s. d., s. 1113 s. 1114 1115 1116 1117 1118
 Lord Mahon  wished to put a question to his
 1043
 Viscount Sandon  would not detain the House many minutes; but one argument had been so often pressed upon the House in favour of this Motion, that he was desirous of answering it. It had again and again been asked, what right had they to tax the people of this country to the extent of two or three millions? Now, he wanted to know upon what basis this calculation rested. Why, it was founded upon the amount of differential duties imposed upon Foreign and Colonial sugar. The difference in amount between those sugars was taken as the measure of the increase of price paid by the people of this country; and this calculation was put forward by men who professed to be very learned in the principles of political economy—who passed themselves off as the  illuminati s. s. s. s. s. s. 1151
 Mr. Tatton Egerton  supported the clause as being a benefit to small proprietors, who would otherwise have no power of protecting themselves, and he thought it right they should have some tribunal to appeal to.
 Mr. Aglionby's  Amendment agreed to.
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  recollected nothing whatever in the speech of his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford, to justify the observations that had fallen from the hon. Member (Mr. Hutt). The
 1199 1200
 Sir T. Acland  said, it was not his intention to prolong the discussion by any observations. As to the labours of the missionaries, he must be permitted to say
 1201 1202 United Service Gazette, 1203 bonâ fide
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  rose to express his sincere regret at finding that the professions of kindly feeling and conciliatory conduct towards Ireland, which were made so recently by the right hon. Gentleman (Sir T. Fremantle) on the hustings—professions which were still fresh in the minds of the Irish people—were followed up by the strange practical commentary they had witnessed to-night. That the right hon, Gentleman should (with the recollection of those professions fresh in his memory) have come forward to justify the extraordinary conduct of the Government was to him astonishing. He would appeal to the English Members pre-
 1228 Ingestre: 1229 1230
 Mr. T. C. Smith (the Attorney General
 1231  said, he thought it was desirable that the circumstances under which the Earl of Lucan had been dismissed from the magistracy should be fully known to the House. The noble Earl had been dismissed from the Commission of the Peace at the latter end of the year 1842, and in the course of the Session of 1843 the subject had been brought under the notice of the other House of Parliament. And what had been, then, the complaint made by the opponents of Her Majesty's Government in reference to that matter? Their complaint had been that the Government had acted harshly in dismissing the Earl of Lucan. The Marquess of Clanricarde had made a complaint to that effect in the strongest terms; and Lord Campbell took a similar view of the subject. It should also be remembered that the Earl of Lucan had been restored to the Commission of the Peace towards the end of the year 1843; and yet not one word complaining of that restoration had been uttered during the last Session of Parliament. Lord Campbell had even taken occasion to say, that the noble Earl had only been restored to a position from which he ought never to have been removed. It was certainly rather strange that the Government should first be attacked because they had dismissed Lord Lucan from the Commission of the Peace, and that they should afterwards have been attacked for having appointed him to another office. It was no matter what the Government did, it was always turned into a ground of complaint. Now, he was anxious that the English people should understand what these appeals to them really were. He was not about to justify Lord Lucan's conduct; but he trusted that when the circumstances under which he was placed, and the provocation offered to him, were taken into consideration—although there might be some hon. Members ready to cast the first stone—there was scarcely one among them who would not have given way to feelings of irritation. What was the transaction? It appeared, that two years previous to the transaction, Lord Lucan removed Mr. O'Malley from the office which he had held under his Lordship's father. From that time Mr. O'Malley adopted a constant system of annoyance towards Lord Lucan, manifestly for the purpose of irritating him. Among other things, it appeared, that he had been in the habit of trespassing on his estate in quest of game; although repeatedly warned to desist. On
 1232 Mayo Telegraph,
 Mr. Fox Maule  admitted that the hon. Member for Greenock had always brought the subject forward in a manner that could not give any personal offence. He did not, however, agree with the hon. Member in any of his propositions; and he had combated them so often that it was needless to go over the ground again. As to one part of the hon. Gentleman's Motion, he concurred with the learned Lord Advocate, that if it were granted it would lead to great inconvenience, not to say to much mal-administration of justice in Scotland—he referred to the proposition to give inferior Courts the power of inflicting the punishment of transportation. Those Courts were of the greatest benefit to Scotland, and the gentlemen who presided over them discharged their duties admirably, for which the public were greatly indebted to them; but if they were to be put in the position proposed by the hon. Member for Greenock, duties would be imposed upon them which they could not perform with satisfaction to the pub-
 1173
 Mr. Fox Maule  did not agree with the noble Lord that the present was not a suitable opportunity for discussing the power to be given to the Board of Trade; for little by little, and clause by clause, they were going on to give powers to that
 1161
 Mr. F. Maule  concurred that this was a very important question, and must be fairly raised and fully discussed, if the public were ever to have any confidence in the decisions of the Board of Trade, which could not be done at a morning sitting; he should, therefore, recommend his hon. Friend to give his notice of Motion, and to endeavour to make some arrangement with the Government, by which it might be discussed with as little delay as possible.
 Mr. W. O. Stanley  wished to ask a question of the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury, respecting Holyhead harbour. In the early part of the Session the right hon. Baronet had said—
 "With regard to one harbour the Government had come to a decision. They thought it of great importance to improve the harbour of Holyhead, for the purpose of facilitating the intercourse between the two parts of the United Kingdom."
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that the question was one of such great importance that it would be quite impossible for him, even if he had a very definite opinion upon the subject, to answer it at once off-hand. Whatever his own opinion was, he might, perhaps, state that the proposal appeared at first sight to have reason on its side. He thought, that the best plan for the hon. Member to adopt, would be to prepare a specific and distinct clause, containing the whole of his opinions with regard to the Board of Trade tribunal, and to bring it before the whole House. There were certainly not a sufficient number of hon. Members then present to discuss satisfactorily a matter of such importance.
 Lord G. Somerset  trusted that the hon. Member would in the meantime consent to
 1163 pro formâ,
 Lord G. Somerset , conceiving the general feeling of the Committee appeared to be in favour of the amendment, he would not offer any opposition.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that all that was intended by the clause, was to give relief to parties in cases where it could not otherwise be obtained, and he thought that none better could be proposed than the Board of Trade. The power could not be given to the local magistrates; that was out of the question, and to put it within the jurisdiction of a jury in the courts of law, would involve a much greater expense. This, however, was not the proper time to discuss the general question of the jurisdiction of the Board of Trade.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that persons at a distance could surely write to the Board of Trade. With regard to what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Perth (Mr. F. Maule), he must say, that he was quite alive to the evil of mixing up the Executive Government with matters of property. It was an odious power, and one that could only be justified by necessity. That necessity, he contended, however, did now exist. There certainly must be an appeal to some tribunal, and he could not conceive a better one than the Board of Trade. Would the right hon. Gentleman have it decided by the Court of Chancery?
 Lord Granville Somerset  said, that the clause had been vaguely worded in this respect on purpose to give the Board of Trade a latitude of discretion in judging as to who were really affected or not by the deviation, and as the subject was decidedly to benefit the smaller class of proprietors and occupiers, he thought it important to effect that object that the Board of Trade should have that discretion or scope for judging.
 Lord G. Somerset  could not consent to the proposed addition, which he thought would too much extend the scope of the Act. He by no means intended that au existing railway company coming before Parliament with their own capital and own resources to ask for further powers, should be obliged to obtain a Bill which should contain all the provisions in this Act.
 Lord G. Somerset  did not think the proposition of the hon. and gallant Member would effect his own object. Some persons in the country did not see the London papers at all, and of those who did, some saw the  Times, Chronicle, Standard,
 Lord G. Somerset  thought that if the consent only of the parties owning the land was required, the justice of the case would not be met. This was a most important clause, and its object was to protect small proprietors and residents near the line, who would have no other means of protection, and it was necessary such persons should have the power of appeal.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that by Clause 10, it was provided that no deviation should be made by the companies without the consent of the owners and occupiers of the land having been first obtained. Then by Clause 11, the owner of any land affected might appeal to the Board of Trade, who would have the power to set aside the arrangement that had before been made. Now, upon what ground was this power to be given to the Board of Trade? Here was an arrangement guarded by not only the consent of the owners having
 1158
 Mr. Hawes  wished to ask the noble Lord whether he would object to the insertion at the end of the clause of the words "provided always, that the parties interested may appear by themselves or their agents before the said Board of
 1162
 Mr. Hawes  objected altogether to the jurisdiction of the Board of Trade, and consequently to the range of appeal being extended. If the Board were to have this new, extensive, secret, and irresponsible power given to them, let it be as definite and narrow as possible. He objected to the clause altogether, but would rather retain it as it was, than adopt the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Cockermouth.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that he would raise the question on the 47th Clause, and he hoped the noble Lord would give the opportunity for discussing it in a full House. He would in the first place move to omit the 47th Clause, on the ground of objecting to the tribunal of the Board of Trade; and if the noble Lord would give him the benefit of the legal assistance enjoyed by the Government, he (Mr. Hawes) would endeavour to frame a clause which should raise the question. Then two propositions would be before the House. The first, whether this tribunal should be created; and secondly, if so, whether it should be a secret or an open tribunal.
 Colonel Sibthorp  entirely disapproved of the constitution of the Board of Trade, and of the powers intrusted to it. He looked upon the Act as a humbug altogether. The public interest was not at all regarded. Footpaths ought to be attended to as well as carriage roads.
 Colonel Sibthorp  objected to the obligation upon the companies to advertise in the newspapers notice of their intended deviation being limited to one paper only circulating in the district where such deviation was to be made. Some gentlemen saw one paper and others saw another, and the object of publicity would not be gained. Why should they not give notice in the London papers? He had a great respect for them all, though they did attack him sometimes.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that he could not sit there and hear the misrepresentations of the hon. Member for Plymouth as to the small proprietors of land. The hon. Member had said these proprietors had thrown obstacles in the way of railway companies, in order to increase the amount of their compensation. The small landowners were fully entitled to make the most of their property, but he would deny that they had ever resorted to such means as the hon. Member had intimated. He was inclined to retort the charge on railway companies. They inserted advertisements for the purpose of catching and humbugging the public, stating that the holders of their shares would realise 15 per cent. for their money. The small proprietors of land were never guilty of such conduct.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, he wished to point out the great disregard which had been shown for the rights of owners of land in this Bill. The Bill provided that a deviation might be made of a hundred yards from the projected line. Now a deviation of such an extent might completely destroy the value of a piece of land, the subdivision of which the owner never contemplated when he gave his consent to the line running through his property. There was an appeal to the Board of Trade, but that was, in his opinion, all nonsense.
 Mr. Ross : He did not mean to defend Mr. O'Malley's conduct, who, no doubt, acted under irritated feelings. But the Attorney General for Ireland had taken a brief in this case against the Lord Chancellor. His argument went the length of proving the Chancellor to have been wrong in ever removing Lord Lucan. How did that square with the right hon. Secretary's (Sir T. Fremantle's) view of the case, who insisted on a strange infallibility for the Chancellor, who, he said, was perfectly right not only in removing, but in restoring Lord Lucan. The doctrine laid down in that debate struck him as exceedingly strange. It appeared that magistrates were to undergo a species of rustication, and that, like youths at our universities, they were to be sent away for a time, on account of their irregularities, and then restored to their dignity. That was not the case with political
 1233
 The Lord Advocate  submitted to the House that the hon. Member for Greenock had not made out any case for altering the constitution of the Court of Session. The hon. Member had said that the Court was not satisfactory to Scotland, and being of that opinion, he had with a laudable perseverance from time to time endeavoured to effect an alteration. He, however, would venture to say, that the hon. Member was altogether mistaken, and that the constitution of the Court of Session was not un-
 1169 1170 1171 1172
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, that as there was no wish on the part of the Government to withhold this information, he would second the Motion. The only objection he had to the Motion was, that documents which he should have occasion to refer to, were not in the possession of the House. He must, however, protest strongly against the concluding sentence of the hon. Member, when he said, that he would not weigh the purse of the West Indian against the blood and lives of the African, or do evil that good might come, and that he could not consent to this course, however beneficial to the West Indians, if it involved the breach of the solemn contract which England had entered into with the African race. He could assure the House that if he could conceive that the course the Government were taking involved any of these consequences, he should be as sorry as his hon. Friend to adopt that course; but he contended that the very reverse was the case; and he trusted that he should convince the House that there was no breach of faith in the proceedings of the Government, but on the contrary complete and substantial observance of it. Shortly after the stopping of the Slave Trade, measures were adopted for disposing of captured Africans. His hon. Friend wished to adhere strictly to these measures; but the question was, whether the means now adopted in lieu of them for promoting the immigration into the West Indies from Africa, were not better means, which, while they were beneficial to other parties, would be more beneficial to the Africans themselves. His hon. Friend had referred to a proclamation of the Governor of Sierra Leone, and the mode in which he did so left it to be concluded by the House that the negroes taken on board slave ships by British cruisers were landed at Sierra Leone in a state of debility, and, being incapable of exercising a proper discretion as to whether they would emigrate to the West Indies or not, were left to starve at Sierra Leone, if they would not emigrate. That was the inference from the terms in which his hon. Friend had referred to the procla-
 1187 1188 1189 d. d. bonâ fide 1190 "The original settlers here and their immediate descendants are not accustomed to labour, having heretofore procured apprentices, who, by that name, worked and were treated as slaves, without the protection or remuneration, small as was that remuneration, by slaves enjoyed, and also by persons from the tribes in the neighbourhood, who were frequently obliged to fly here for refuge from their own country people." "The old residents here, when they have scraped together enough of money to set up for themselves, get a grant of a lot of land, plant provisions, traffic, and, as soon as possible, procure a liberated African, who then becomes their drudge," "Those persons who have thus refused to emigrate, and have been so readily picked up by the already located liberated Africans, are employed by them altogether as unpaid servants; they are fed—scantily, if at all clothed — and have no pecuniary allowance whatever." bonâ fide 1191 1192 1193
 Mr. G. W. Hope , in answer to the
 1196
 Mr. G. W. Hope  could not, on the part of the Department with which he was connected, consent to the production of the correspondence; neither could he suffer the observations of the hon. Gentleman to pass without some notice. In the first place, he had to complain that the hon. Gentleman should, without waiting for the whole correspondence, so that the case might be fairly stated, have made an attack upon the conduct of Mr. Davis. That Gentleman had for years been superintendent of the trade in China, and had been selected by his right hon. Friend as especially fitted for the appointment, and be had given great satisfaction in the discharge of his duties. The hon. Gentleman seemed to consider such a law as a registration law inconsistent and difficult of application in a new Colony like Hong-Kong; but he thought it much more easy in a new Colony than in an old city like Cairo. He should be doing injustice to Mr. Davis, if he did not state that the principle of the law in question had received the sanction of the noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Department. The House would recollect that Hong-Kong was small in extent, and was close to a dense population of Chinese. It was infested by rogues and vagabonds of every
 1209
 Mr. Aglionby  said, it was almost impossible for Members, generally, to discuss a question of this kind at the present moment, when some of the Papers alluded to by the hon. Under Secretary (Mr. G. W. Hope) were in possession only of the Colonial Office, although others had already been laid before the House. He was glad that the hon. Gentleman had agreed to produce the Papers moved for by the hon. Baronet opposite, because they would afford additional information on this very important subject. He (Mr. Aglionby) sympathised with the West India proprietors, who had, he conceived, laboured under very great disadvantages. He had, in his place in Parliament, opposed and voted against the loan, and subsequently against the grant of 20,000,000 l. 1194 1195
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that he quite agreed with the hon. Member for Plymouth, for property might be very greatly injured though it was beyond the appointed range of deviation. For instance, a man might build a house commanding a view over the distant country. A railway embankment was raised above the level of the original line, and immediately the house was shut out both from prospect and air. The house which before was worth 200 l. 1160
 Mr. Aglionby  thought, that the test which ought to be applied was, whether the land was really or not affected by the deviation, irrespective of its exact distance from the line, and for that purpose he moved to leave out the words in line 15, "lying near to the place of such proposed
 1159
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that when he first came into that House he had sat on many Committees, and had foolishly believed that the railway companies were actuated solely by a public spirit; but he had since then become wiser. He was glad, therefore, that the gallant Officer opposite had brought the rights of the public before the Committee. The railway companies were large and powerful bodies, and could protest themselves: but the landowners, though very powerful in their own way, had not the same means, and were often sufferers. But there was one class whom nobody protected. He meant the public. This Bill was most shamefully negligent of the rights of the people. Before the construction of railways the people possessed their full right to the use of the public ways. There was no right more ancient or better established.
 1156
 Dr. Bowring  said, that he did not understand the hon. Gentleman opposite to state decidedly that he would not by and by communicate the document to the House. He had said that at present the information was imperfect, and be (Dr. Bowring) would certainly not do Mr. Davis the injustice of resting the case upon imperfect documents. If there was any defence of which we had no knowledge, Mr. Davis ought to have the advantage of them. His hon. Friend the Member for Portsmouth stated, that he had received information that the document had been wholly withdrawn. That was not the purport of the communication which he (Dr. Bowring) had received. The  Hong-Kong Register, 1211
 Dr. Bowring  said, he was about to ask some information from Her Majesty's Government with reference to a matter which was well entitled to the attention of the House. In bringing forward the subject, it was not necessary to refer to the interest which the proceedings in China had created in the mind of this country, or to the grati-
 1204 "To secure tranquillity and good order in the Colony of Hong-Kong and its dependencies, and to prevent the resort there of abandoned characters and of persons without any ostensible means of subsistence, it was expedient that a registry be established of persons resident therein." 1205 "Be it further enacted and ordained, that from and after the first day of November next, all male inhabitants of the age of twenty-one years and upwards, or capable of earning a livelihood, resident in the Colony of Hong-Kong, shall be required once in every year to appear personally at the said office, or at such branch offices as may from time to time be established by the Governor in Council, to be registered in manner hereinafter mentioned." "Be it further enacted and ordained, that the said Registrar-General, or such other officer, so to be appointed as aforesaid, shall and may in all cases where he shall deem it advisable, inquire into, and acquaint himself with the age, birth-place, and residence of every person so to be registered, and with his occupation, and the date of his arrival in the Colony aforesaid; and with the circumstances of his family and connexions, and with their places of residence, and occupation; and shall and may ascertain whether the said applicant be married, and of what number his family consists, and whether male or female: and that he do enter or cause to be entered all such particulars in a book to be kept for that purpose." 1206 1207 "My information leads me to believe that other than Chinese influence has been exerted to mature the late movement. The leading part taken by the comprador of an English firm—the meeting of Chinese held at the house of that firm—the intimate knowledge displayed by the Chinese of the proceedings of certain English regarding the registration, and their adoption of precisely similar language—would seem to mark most clearly the assistance and co-operation of one or more Englishmen." "He would fain hope, for the sake of the British character, that none could have been found capable of thus tampering with the Chinese population; but as the subject had come officially before him, he deemed it necessary to take that public notice of it, and to draw the attention of any who could descend to such unworthy practices, to the consequences entailed on the ignorant and unfortunate Chinese, who had been necessarily subjected by the magistrates to severe punishment." 1208 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, that She will be graciously pleased to give directions that there be laid before this House, Copies or Extracts of Correspondence relative to the issue and suspension of an Ordinance of the Governor of Hong-Kong, dated 21st August last, for the registration of the population of that Colony, and for establishing a Poll Tax on the inhabitants to cover the expenses of said registration."
 Mr. Plumptre  believed that the Church Missionary Society had performed its labours well. He defended the Lay Secretary from the imputations that had been cast upon him. He had had a long acquaintance with that gentleman, and he must say that he was wholly undeserving of the censures made upon him.
 Mr. Henley  said, that better provision ought to be made for the preservation of footways, and driftways, and the tracks by which large droves of cattle were accustomed to be driven, and as it was a matter of great public convenience he should divide with the hon. Member for Cockermouth.
 Mr. Bellew  rose in pursuance of the Motion of which he had given notice—
 "That there be laid before this House a Return of any Correspondence which took place in the years 1842,1843, and 1844, between the Lord Chancellor of Ireland and the Earl of Lucan, relative to the dismissal of the latter from, and subsequent restoration to, the Magistracy: also for a Copy of the Commission appointing the said Earl of Lucan Lord Lieutenant of the County of Mayo." 1222 1223 1224
 Mr. Wallace  rose, in pursuance of notice, to move for leave to bring in a Bill that would enable the Government for the time being to reduce the number of Judges
 1164 1165 l. "Abstract of the return of the stipendiary Judges in England, Ireland, and Scotland, respectively, being No. 314, Session 1844:—Calculations to show the proportional number of stipendiary Judges to the population of England and Wales, and of Ireland and Scotland, respectively. The population is taken in round numbers. The population of England being about 16,000,000, and the number of Judges 145; it follows that there is one Judge to every 110,000 souls in England and Wales. In Ireland, the population being about 8,000,000, and the number of Judges 124: it appears there is one Judge to every 64,000 of the Irish people. In Scotland the population is about 2,600,000, and 94 Judges; that is, one Judge to every 27,000 of the people; being one Judge in Scotland to every 27,000, whilst in England you have only one for every 110,000. There is another way of stating the case. In England there are 22 superior Judges, which gives one superior Judge to every 727,000 inhabitants. In Ireland there are 16 superior Judges, which
 1166 l., l. s. d. l., l. s. d, l., l. s.; l., l., l. s., l. s. d. 1167 1168 "That Leave be given to bring in a Bill to repeal so much of the Act 1 Will. 4, c. 69, as provides that there shall be thirteen Judges in the Court of Session in Scotland; and to extend the Jurisdiction of the Stipendiary County Judges, called Sheriffs, by giving them the power of awarding the punishment of transportation, in the event of the Judges in the Court of Session being reduced below the number of Thirteen."
 Mr. Wallace  wanted to know how the complaining parties were to go before the Board of Trade, and who was to bear the expense; for if his hon. Friends in the "land o'cakes" had to come to the Board of Trade in London, and were to pay their own expenses, he believed that the clause would be rendered nugatory, as it would in the case of all poor persons residing at a distance from the metropolis.
 Mr. Mangles  could scarcely believe that the hon. Member for the West Riding had correctly heard the speech of his hon. Friend (Mr. Hutt); for, so far from casting any discredit upon the hon. Member for the University of Oxford, he appealed to the House if his hon. Friend had not spoken in terms of praise and commendation of the temper and moderation in which the Motion had been brought forward. The hon. Member, for instance, had expressed his earnest wish that all parties who took the same views as the hon. Baronet would conduct themselves with equal moderation and with equal regard to strict verity and truth. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Wortley), under cover of the hon. Member for the University of Oxford, had defended parties whose conduct his hon. Friend (Mr. Hutt) did impugn; but anybody who knew the history of the West Indies since the emancipation, and who knew anything of the efforts made to introduce slavery into those Colonies, must know there had been parties, mistaken, misguided, and short-sighted, who had done their utmost, in a suicidal manner, to verify all the predictions of the enemies of emancipation, and to falsify all the statements of its friends. As to the attack which had been made upon the operations of the Church Missonary Society, he must say that he was a member of that Society, and could bear testimony that on India, where the missionaries were under the eye of a strong; Government, the Society had conferred great blessings; but he must admit that in some other places the efforts of the missionaries had had an injurious effect.
 Mr. Gill  thought the clause was too vaguely worded in regard to the situation of the property of those persons to whom this right of appeal was to be given. The words "lying near to the place of such proposed deviation," expressed nothing. "Near" might mean two hundred yards or a mile, or a quarter of a mile. Some definite distance ought to be fixed. It was well known that landowners threw obstacles in the way of railroads, in order to get a high price for the land.
 Mr. Gill  said, that the hon. and gallant Officer had entirely mistaken him. His reference had been to the large landed proprietors, and not to the small owners. The question was not whether the place was lying near, but whether it was affected by, the deviation from the original line. He would, therefore, propose to strike out the words "lying near," and substitute the words "prejudicially affected;" and that the prejudice to a property and not its neighbourhood should entitle it to compensation.
 Mr. Wakley : I have heard with very great satisfaction the statement of the right hon. Baronet, and I earnestly hope and really believe that the difficulties which beset this subject will be amicably arranged and finally settled. The right hon. Gentleman has shown by the alterations he has proposed that he is most anxious to consider every matter mooted by the general practitioners and the profession. I believe the right hon. Gentleman and the Government to which he belongs could be scarcely aware of the difficulties by which this subject is encompassed. There are so many various interests, so many laws affecting the profession, so many rights conferred by those different laws, in some instances opposed apparently to every principle of sense and reason, that more difficulties were in fact connected with this subject than almost any other requiring the legislative interference of the House. Sir, I must say, I felt very strongly opposed to the other Bill. I considered some portions of it most objectionable; but I do not now wish to refer to those topics of difference. I am so satisfied that the right hon. Gentleman, from the alterations he has proposed, is anxious to conciliate all parties in the profession, and to listen attentively and deliberately to the various suggestions that may be made, that I have only now to request that he will not propose the second reading of the Bill at an early period, but give time for the most mature consideration of its provisions by the profession. If the right hon. Gentleman will only pursue the course he has taken, he will receive, I can assure him, the gratitude of one of the most important bodies of men to be found in this country.
 Mr. Entwisle  said, that he thought the constitution of appeals to the Board of Trade was good for the railways themselves. By that means they were saved from falling into the hands of an attorney, who hurried them into litigation and disputes for the sake of running up a bill. For these reasons he thought this cours of appeal would be better for the companies themselves. The hon. Member for Cockermouth thought that the present wording of the clause limited the facility of appeal, and he entirely agreed with him in the observation.
 Mr. Hayter  viewed the clause as a benefit to the public, and adverse to the interest of companies, as it enabled the Board of Trade to prevent a deviation being made, even after a consent had been obtained from owners.
 Sir G. Staunton  hoped that the Motion would be withdrawn. There was nothing which appeared to him more likely to retard the progress of the Colony than these premature discussions. In order to assist the House to form a just estimate of the impression which this ordinance made on the spot, he should read to them the following extracts from the  Hong-Kong Gazette: "The clauses of the last ordinance which were felt to be so obnoxious have been withdrawn, much to the credit of the Government and Legislative Council. As it now stands we have little to find fault with. We hear objections from parties, whose opinions we respect, to some of the clauses of the registration ordinance. We confess that the whole document is un-English, but at the same time the state of affairs renders it indispensable. We must bear in mind that Hong-Kong is an anomaly in Colonial history, and that we must not seek elsewhere for measures which here are unavoidable." 1210
 Sir J. Graham : Sir, I should not have considered it consistent with that duty which I am called upon to perform, to have troubled the House at any length upon the subject of the Motion which I am about to make had I not thought that a very great impression has been created on the public mind by misapprehension, and that a very great degree of anxiety exists amongst the medical practitioners, with respect to the alterations which it is the intention of the bills which I am about to ask leave to bring in, to introduce into that profession. I should not but for this have trespassed at so late an hour upon the attention of the House. But the House will no doubt remember, when I introduced, at the latter end of last Session, a Bill for the regulation of the medical profession, I then stated, that considering the various important interests which that measure would affect, as well with respect to the public at large, as to the medical practitioners themselves, hasty legislation upon such a subject would not only be inexpedient, but also unjust to the profession; and that I thought I should best consult the public interest, and accord that general justice which was due to all parties, if I laid the projected measure in its then state upon the Table of the House, in order that its merits, and the various enactments which were proposed in its clauses, might be canvassed and thoroughly sifted during the ensuing recess. It is not denied that this proceeding on my part was characterized by fairness and by a willingness to afford an opportunity for thoroughly examining the proposed Bill; and I am now prepared to admit also its usefulness, for the discussions which have since taken place with respect to that measure, have enabled me to state the changes which I am now prepared to submit
 1212 1213 1214 "And be it enacted, that every unregistered person who shall wilfully and falsely pretend
 1215 1216 1217 1218 1219 1220
 Sir J. Graham  had heard with satisfaction the speech of the hon. Gentleman, who had met his proposition in a spirit of calmness and temper that was perfectly satisfactory. He certainly would not propose the second reading of the Bill until after Easter.
 Sir J. Graham  moved for leave to bring in a Bill for enabling Her Majesty to grant new Charters to certain Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons, which, he said, would serve to render more efficient the operation of the measure he had just now obtained leave to introduce. So far from rendering these bodies more close, the intended Charter would render them more open. He would be quite ready to lay on the Table copies of the four Charters proposed to be granted to the Colleges of Physicians in London, Dublin, and Edinburgh, and to the College of Surgeons in Edinburgh, and then, taking them in connexion with the other Bill, the House would have an opportunity of judging of the entire scheme.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  replied. He had perhaps used too strong an expression, since it was so regarded by his noble Friend (Lord Sandon); yet he could hardly admit it, after it had been so kindly vindicated by his hon. Friend the Member for the West Riding (Mr. Stuart Wortley). As the papers were to be granted, it was not necessary for him to say much; but he must rejoice in the assurance of his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies, that, while the words of the Governor's Proclamation might bear the interpretation put upon it, it was not intended to act upon it literally. His hon. Friend told him, that he was mistaken in assuming that nine years of age had been fixed as the period at which children were removed from the schools; whereas it was twelve, "a great difference in a tropical country." All he could say was, that the earlier age was stated in a letter which he held in his hand, from one who had been in the Colony at the time. He again thanked the House for their patient attention.
 Sir R. H. Inglis , in rising to move for the production of Correspondence and Papers relative to liberated Africans, said, that he did not wish to introduce, and he hoped he should be able to avoid, anything which might provoke an angry discussion. He bore no ill-will to those for whose more immediate benefit the removal, or he might say the exportation, of negroes from the coast of Africa to the West Indies had been sanctioned by Her Majesty's Government; and certainly he could not be supposed to bear any ill-will to the other party engaged, namely, the negroes themselves. In the year immediately after the abolition of the Slave Trade, an Order in Council was issued, by the terms of which the case of the negroes had been governed up to the year 1844, namely, "that when landed in any place where there was a Court of Mixed Commission, the slave should be protected
 1174 Narrative of Fifty Days on Board a Slaver, 1175 1176 Progreso, "That Lord Stanley has been pleased to notify to us" (his Excellency William Ferguson, and so on), "that liberated Africans landed in this Colony should be apprised, that in case they prefer remaining in this Colony to emigrating to the West Indies, they must provide entirely for themselves; now, therefore, we do hereby publish, promulgate, and proclaim, that all allowances, of whatsoever description, heretofore issued to captured negroes by Her Majesty's Government, on their being landed in this Colony, will discontinue and cease, excepting clothing and maintenance while under adjudication, which will be supplied to them as formerly" (public decency would not allow of their being left in the streets exactly in the state in which they were liberated from the hold), "until they have an opportunity of emigrating to the West Indies, and no longer." 1177 "Your Committee had next to consider whether in achieving this object" (the civilization of Africa, by the removal of negroes to the West Indies, and bringing them back again from the West Indies, with improved habits of order and civilization, and knowledge of agricultural improvements, and so forth), "any danger existed of creating a real, or plausible suspicion of a real, Slave Trade, under another name. Under proper regulations they think there is not. A free passage may be offered to the African already settled within the Colony, and to the free settler or other native, who shall have remained long enough in the Colony to give the authorities sufficient time to ascertain the circumstances under which he came, and to assure themselves that they were entirely free from all suspicion of fraud or force. To such as thus leave their homes a free passage back at the end of a certain period, say three or four years, might be promised, with full permission to them to return at any time at their own expense. To the homeless African, newly liberated, the option should be given of settling at once in the West Indies, if he please, with permission to return hereafter at his own cost, or of removing from Sierra Leone, or of remaining in it on the first adjudication, if he undertake for his own maintenance, or can find friends or relations who will undertake it for him." 1178 l. l. l. 1179 Glen Huntly, 1180 congé d'elire, bonâ fide 1181 1182 1183 l. l. s. "With respect to any extensive emigration at present, you think that it could not be carried on?—My impression is, that in the present state of Africa, it is impossible. If Her Majesty will accept the sovereignty of territory such as was ceded to me opposite to Fernando Po, by the native chiefs, who came over and took the oath of allegiance voluntarily, that when you have got the cession of the territory, you will have a population which will become free; you may then have freemen to go to the West Indies; you cannot prevent a freeman going where he likes; and if he chooses to go to the West Indies for the wages he would get there, you might have an emigration to some extent, but under present circumstances it is impossible, for this reason; I went over to Old Calabar, and said to Duke Ephraim, 'What will you let me have a thousand men for, to clear the bush at Fernando Po, and I will send them back when I have done with them?' 'No,' said he, 'I will have nobody here that is educated by you;
 1184 1185 l. "Copies of despatch from Lord Stanley to Governor Macdonald, at Sierra Leone, dated the 10th day of February, 1844.—Of Proclamation of Lieutenant Governor Ferguson, at Sierra Leone, dated the 12th day of June,
 1186
 Sir R. Peel , upon the part of the Government, was most desirous of seeing a line of railway established between Chester and Holyhead, and had given every encouragement to the promoters of that railway. A Bill had been passed last year, with the exception of the railway crossing the Menai Straits, as objections were made to the present bridge being used for that purpose. At present the subject was under the consideration of the Board of Trade and the Admiralty, and he hoped a Bill would soon be produced which would meet the sanction of Government. Retaining the same opinion which the Government had before expressed that Holyhead was the proper channel of communication with Ireland; if that Bill, in its provisions, met the views of the Government, he should be prepared to propose a grant for the improvement of Holyhead harbour in this year's estimates.
 Sir T. Fremantle  had no objection to the Papers moved for by the hon. Gentleman. It was perfectly well known that the noble Lord in question had himself moved for them in another place, and had given notice of a Motion on the subject of this inquiry. The hon. Member, at the commencement of his speech, spoke of the jealousy with which the conduct of magis-
 1225 1226 1227
 Mr. Hutt  said, that having been a Member of the Committee of 1842, it appeared to him no fact had been brought forward by the hon. Baronet which had not been under the consideration of that Committee. The Committee patiently and elaborately entered upon a consideration of all those points, and after having done so they made a Report decidedly in favour of that immigration which the hon. Baronet had advised in part. He did not generally follow the views of Her Majesty's Government, but he was bound to give his cordial support to their policy on this question. He only regretted that the same policy had not been adopted earlier, and that it had not been voluntarily carried oat. It was impossible to deny to the hon. Baronet the praise of having stated his view of the case with considerable moderation and fairness. He only wished that some others would follow his example. He was convinced, that if Her Majesty's Government would only pursue boldly the course they had now adopted—if they would turn a deaf ear to mischievous meddlers—if they would throw Often oar West India plantations to the free immigration of the African race, they would promote the cause of improvement to an extent that he believed scarcely so much could be accomplished by any other single line of policy. This policy, he knew very well, would not give satisfaction to all parties; but for a moment let
 1198
 Viscount Sandon  thought the observations of the hon. Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Aglionby) had no bearing upon the question before the House. He would defy any person to trace any connexion, however remote, between the subject of emigration from Sierra Leone to the West Indies, and the conduct or misconduct of the Church Missionary Society. He would not enter into the question raised by the hon. Member as to the conduct of agents of that society on the coast of New Zealand. But the hon. Gentleman complained that circulars had been issued by the Committee of that Society, recommending a pamphlet to the attention of constituents in different boroughs, and requesting them to urge the advocacy of certain view supon their Representatives. Why, if the hon. Gentleman opposite had chosen, he might have issued counter-statements in the same manner. In reference to the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford, the question had been so completely exhausted by him that very little was left to be said upon it; but he regretted to find that his hon. Friend was recommencing the old battle. He had hoped his hon. Friend would not have brought the Motion forward. What could his hon. Friend mean by "the blood and the suffering" of the African? If there had been no option allowed to the African, he might then have been able to make out a case of hardship; but the facts were that
 1197
 Mr. Collett  rose to put the questions to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, of which he gave notice yesterday. The first question was, "whether it is intended to appoint another Bishop of Bath and Wells during the life of the present incumbent, whose duties are now and have for some time past been performed by the Bishop of Salisbury?" In the event of receiving an answer in the negative, his second question was, "whether at the death of the present Bishop it is intended to appoint another Bishop of
 1234
 Lord J. Russell  rose and said: Sir, I believe the House cannot but feel that the question brought forward for our consideration by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer is one of the greatest importance, both in a commercial and a financial point of view. The right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the
 1235 1236 d. d. 1237 1238 Gladstone: s. 1239 s. s. s. d. s. d. s. d. l. s. d. s. 1240 s. s., s., s., s. s.; s. s., s., s. s. s., 1241 s. s. s. s. d. s., s. d., s. s. s. s. s. d. s. s., s., l. 1242 s. s. "I do not believe that there is a labouring population on the face of the earth who have so patiently borne a reduction of wages as they have, and this, too, connected with an increased price of provisions, by a cruel and abominable tax on the necessaries of life, imposed for the avowed purpose of raising money to increase the number of labourers, and thereby still further to curtail their comforts, and still further to reduce their wages." l. 1243 1244 s. s., 1245 l. s. s.; s. s. s. s. s., s., s. l. l. l. 1246 l. l., s. s. s. s. 1247 "That it is the opinion of this House, that the plan proposed by Her Majesty's Government in reference to the Sugar Duties, professes to keep up a distinction between Foreign free-labour and Foreign slave-labour Sugar, which is impracticable and illusory; and, without adequate benefit to the Consumer, tends so greatly to impair the Revenue as to render the removal of the Income and Property Tax, at the end of three years, extremely uncertain and improbable."
 Lord J. Russell : What I stated was that we might, in my opinion, make a reduction in the Sugar Duties which would have produced the same amount of revenue, and would have been of the same advantage to the consumer, as the proposal of Her Majesty's Government; and we might thus be enabled to reduce the duties upon other articles. Under the system proposed by Her Majesty's Ministers, the benefit of the reduction will go in a great measure to the planters.
 Mr. Gladstone  felt anxious to take an early part in the debate, both from his general desire to express his opinions on the question involved in the Resolution of the noble Lord, and also as he was anxious at once to declare that out of office he was desirous to take upon himself his full share of responsibility for the plan before the House. But, before he proceeded further, he felt bound to thank the noble Lord, and the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, for the tone and temper in which they had addressed the House, and for their having abstained from those severe and extravagant expressions which had so often characterized former debates on the subject. He had been present at every debate that had taken place in that House upon the Sugar Duties of late years, and uniformly, when it was proposed that distinctions should be drawn between free-grown sugar and the produce of slave labour, the observation was met with terms of very harsh reproach. He never recollected the occasion of a debate of this kind before, in which several accusations of hypocrisy had not been made by the Gentlemen opposite against hon. Members sitting on his side of the House. He, therefore, thanked the noble Lord for saying that he would not accuse the Government, or those that supported them in this place, of hypocrisy, or of mock humanity, in the course which they had taken. And accordingly, while he expressed his satisfaction that the noble Lord had expressed his disapproval of the use of such hard expressions as had so often been employed in the course of these debates, he would, for his own part, observe, that if he had ever been chargeable with harshness of language in discussing this question, he sincerely regretted it; and while he was far from accusing any individual of a want of humanity or sympathy for his fellowmen because they did not agree with him to exclude sugar the produce of the labour of slaves in certain foreign countries, he hoped that, if they would not give him credit for being actuated by high and honourable motives, yet still they would believe that the majority of that House, in the course which they took, were not open to an accusation the very heaviest of all that could be brought against the character of men. As for the Motion before the House, he had to thank the noble Lord for submitting his proposition to the House in phraseology which they could easily follow and comprehend; and as the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, said, that
 1269 1270 1271 Member: Economist 1272 1273 1274 s., s. s. d. s., 1275 s., s. s. s. d. s., s. d., s. d., s., s. d.; s., s., s. d.; s. d., 1276 s. d. s. s. l. 1277 Price Currents. 1278 l. s., s., s., s. s. l. data 1279 l. l. l. l.; l. l. s. s. s. s. l. l., l., l., l. l. 1280 l., l. 1281 1282 1283 s. s. s., s. s., s. s. 1284 1285 1286 1287 1288
 Mr. Gladstone : The House, I am sure, will allow me to put myself right upon one part of the right hon. Gentleman's address. I wish the right hon. Gentleman had quoted in the usual manner when references are made to former speeches—namely, that by which the matter can be verified. My right hon. Friend founds a very severe charge against me—namely, that I adopt contrary language and conflicting arguments at one time or another, precisely as they happen to promote the West India interest. Now will my right hon. Friend allow me to say this—that during the whole of these discussions I never have said one word, to my knowledge, upon the nature of sugar cultivation as being destructive of life? I am aware there were extremely exaggerated notions abroad upon that subject; I still believe it to be the case, but I doubt very much whether in all the speeches with which I have troubled the House during the discussions of the last four years, I have ever said a single syllable to the effect of there being a great destruction of life in the cultivation of sugar. I therefore beg to observe to my right hon. Friend that the severe charge he has made against me is totally groundless, and that there is not one syllable to support it.
 Lord John Russell : I wish to correct a misapprehension into which I find I have led the right hon. Gentleman. I expressed myself, perhaps, very imperfectly; but I certainly never intended to propose that the duty should be reduced 2 s. s. s. s.
 Mr. C. Wood  was not surprised that the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) should have omitted all allusion by way of reply to the able speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Macaulay), for a speech more brilliant and more unanswerably argumentative he (Mr. Wood) never heard in his life. The right hon. Baronet complained that that speech dealt with only one branch of the subject they were discussing—the moral and political, and that it left out the commercial and financial part of the question. But on the commercial and financial advantages of the measure, the Gentlemen on the other side had not a word to say. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Newark (Mr. Gladstone), as a commercial and financial measure, gave it up altogether. He defended it chiefly on political and moral grounds; but for this moral part of the question the Gentlemen opposite were entirely without a defence. And he (Mr. Wood) thought that the right hon. Gentleman the
 1317 1318 d. 1319 d. 1320 d. 1321 s. d., s. d. Price Current, s. s. d. s., s. d. 1322 s. d. s. d., s. d. s. d. s. d., s. d. s., d. 1323 s. s. l. l. 1324 l. 1325
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  continued: I agree with the noble Lord that the amount of the reduction will go partly to the consumer and partly to the planter. That is a natural result; but as the noble Lord agrees with me that it is advisable to maintain differential duties for the benefit of our colonists, I do not know how he is to prevent that result. When we resisted on former occasions the proposal for a reduction of duties, we did so on the grounds that as we were to draw our increased supplies from a great distance, it was advisable that we should give timely notice, and not make that alteration at a time when we could only hope for a limited supply. But when it became our duty to consider in the present year whether the Income Tax should be renewed or not, we thought it indispensably necessary to take into our consideration this article of sugar, with a view to ascertain whether, while we guard by a protective duty the Colonial
 1257 d. s. s. 1258 s. s. 1259 l. 
 
 In 1816, the ordinary Revenue was £51,573,920 
 Taxes repealed that year 3,228,792 
 Revenue after deduction 48,345,128 
 In 1819, the Revenue was 52,885,000 
 Being an increase of £4,540,000 
 In 1822, the Revenue was £55,074,000 
 Taxes repealed 2,159,000 
 52,935,000 
 In 1823, the Revenue was 53,100,000 
 Being an increase of £165,000 
 In 1823, the Revenue was £53,100,000 
 Taxes repealed 1823 £4,050,000 
 1824 1,700,000 
 1825 3,600,000 
 1826 1,900,000 
 11,250,000 
 44,850,000 
 In 1829, the Revenue was 51,330,000 
 Being an increase of £9,480,000 1260 1261
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said: When the noble Lord first gave notice of the Motion which he has just submitted to the House, I was induced to think that it might have been the more convenient course to have entered upon the discussion after you, Sir, had left the Chair. But, having heard the speech of the noble Lord, I am bound to say, that it appears to me to embrace so great a variety of topics, not immediately connected with the Resolutions, as to make it a subject better fitted for general debate than for discussion in Committee. Feeling confident in the justice of the course which I am here to advocate, I am quite prepared to meet the noble Lord on the ground which he himself has chosen; and I can assure the House that I am prepared not only to meet him on his own ground, but also to imitate him in the tone and temper in which he discussed this question, considering the question as one of the greatest
 1248 "The slaves employed on sugar estates,
 1249 "Estates for want of labourers are not at present half cultivated, profits not being sufficient to induce them to add largely to the number of their slaves, by the purchase of Africans at the high price which slave traders are obliged to demand; consequently a reduction of duties, by raising the price of sugar in this market, would increase the profits afforded by its production to an amount which would incite the planter to purchase slaves adequate to the working of his engenho to the full extent of its capabilities, and must, by causing a demand for slave labour, such as would enable the importer to command his own price, give an impetus to the trade, which it is to be feared the utmost exertions of Her Majesty's Government would be insufficient to counteract." 1250 1251 1252 s. s. 1253 s. s., s. 1254 s. s. s. d.; s.; s. 1255 s., s. d. s. d. Gazette s. d.; s., s. d.; d. s., J. Russell: 1256
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that when the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Treasury introduced to the House his series of commercial and financial measures, he declared, that in determining the course which he had adopted, no fear of being taunted with change—no seeming inconsistencies on his part, should prevent him from proposing that which, upon experience he was satisfied, upon the whole, was for the public benefit. He was far from wishing to say anything, except in approbation, of that statement, which had been exemplified by the right hon. Gentleman proposing to the House this year the unusual course of repealing certain important duties which no later than two years ago he had imposed; but the right hon. Baronet would, he hoped, excuse him for thinking that, if he had acted fully and fairly upon that declaration, they would not have seen the Sugar Duties proposed in the form in which they were now presented to the House. He had too high a respect for the understanding and experience of the right hon. Baronet to believe it. That which he (Mr. Labouchere) did not fear to say was almost the universal condemnation of one portion of the right hon. Gentleman's scheme—namely, the attempt to draw a distinction between Foreign sugar, the produce of free labour, and that which was produced by slaves—a condemnation shared in by all mercantile men, by the public in general, by foreign countries—nay, even by the West India planters themselves. ["No, no."] If hon. Gentlemen disputed that, he thought he should be able to prove its truth. These facts, he could not help thinking, must have shaken the opinion which the right hon. Gentleman had before entertained upon the subject; and if this question had not been connected with the party polities of that House, and, in the hand of the noble Member for Liverpool, had been the very
 1262 1263 1264 "The admission of Venezuelan sugar into Great Britain at the rate of duty upon which sugar the produce of free labour countries is admissible, has caused much excitement among
 1265 1266 1267
 Mr. Macaulay  said: If this were merely a financial or merely a commercial question, I should not think myself justified in offering myself to the notice of the House, for I am well aware that there are Gentlemen on both sides of the House much more able to throw light upon the subject in that point of view than I am. But I cannot perceive that the question at issue can be said to be either a commercial or a financial question; for I do not understand it to be disputed that, if we were to decide that question upon purely commercial and financial grounds, we should at once adopt the course recommended by my noble Friend (Lord J. Russell). The right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Gladstone) distinctly states
 1289 1290 1291 1292 "Thus has this eminent statesman given to the English labourer a large supply of this important raw material, and disappointed those ravenous Whigs who wish to inundate England with sugar dyed in negro blood." 1293 1294 1295 1296 1297 1298 1299 1300 1301 1302 apropos. 1303 1304 1305 Gladstone: Gladstone: 1306
 Sir Charles Napier  wished to know whether hon. Gentleman proposed to prevent Cuba introducing her slave-grown sugars into this country? The introduction of Brazilian sugar might be prevented, but Cuba sugar was easily transferred to America, and could thence be as easily transmitted to the English markets. During the late war with France, the produce of Martinique and Guadaloupe was conveyed to America in American bottoms, thereby escaping all risk of capture. No doubt the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government wished to put down the Slave Trade, but if he would do so effectually, he must line the coast of Cuba and Brazil, as well as those of Africa, with cruisers. America would give no real assistance; and as for France (as we understood the gallant Commodore) unless some arrangement could be come to as placing English officers in every French ship, and French officers in every English one, to examine vessels under their respective colours—an arrangement he did not think very likely to be come to—unless something like this was to be done, France would afford no more real aid than America.
 Sir J. Graham : I do not venture to appear before the House, Sir, from any vain desire to place myself for one moment
 1307 1308 1309 1310 1311 1312 1313 1314 s. s. s. 1315 d. d. 1316
 Sir J. Graham  said, that up to the statement just made by his hon. Friend, he had never heard of the horrid circumstances which he referred to. He certainly should feel it his duty to make inquiries on the subject, though he thought there would be some difficulty in removing the cause of the evil.
 Sir P. Egerton  wished to draw the attention of his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary to some very shocking circumstances stated in the newspapers of that day, as having come out in evidence before one of the police magistrates. It was said, that in a crowded churchyard belonging to Clerkenwell, it was the custom to inter bodies brought for burial, but this interment was only  pro tempore;
 Sir R. Peel  begged to thank the hon. Member for the very distinct notice he had given him as to his questions, which he would endeavour to answer as distinctly. To the first he would answer, that it was not in the power of the Government to appoint another Bishop to the see of Bath and Wells during the incumbency of the present Bishop. His answer to that question, therefore, must be decidedly in the negative. To the second question, his answer was, that on the decease of the present right rev. Prelate it would be the duty of Government to advise Her Majesty to appoint another to the see without delay.
 Sir R. Peel  said: There is one complaint which we have heard to-night, a complaint made by the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, which appears to me to be both unreasonable and unjust. He says, that we have not entered into those details explanatory of the probable working of our intended measure, which at the present moment the House has a right to expect at our hands. Sir, it is the wish of the Government to give those details; and I am surprised that it should have escaped the attention of the right hon. Gentleman that my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer intimated his intention of going fully into these details this day in a Committee of Ways and Means. It was well understood, that my right hon. Friend proposed this day to supply the omissions on this subject made by me in my general statement. In this design he was intercepted by the noble Lord the Member for London. I do not say that he was unfairly intercepted, but he certainly was prevented by the Motion of the noble Lord from taking the course which he had intended—and he has been deprived of the opportunity of doing that which he intended. By the Motion of the noble Lord a different issue has been raised from that of which the Government gave notice; and the noble Lord contends, before we discuss the Resolutions of which we had given notice in detail, that we shall again discuss the question which we have before discussed, namely, whether we shall exclude slave-labour
 1326 l. l. 1327 A motion of assent from Lord John Russell. 1328 s., s. 1329 1330 1331 1332 1333 1334 1335 "But both Spain and Brazil are bound, by treaties concluded with us, to prohibit all their subjects from engaging in, or being concerned with, the Slave Trade in any manner whatsoever; and they have, in pursuance of those treaties, promulgated laws denouncing severe punishments upon such of their subjects as may have anything to do with the trade. But these Governments notoriously set at nought their engagements, and systematically disregard
 1336 1337 1338 1339 1340
 Viscount Palmerston : Whatever the result of this division may be, and however satisfactory that division may prove to the other side of the House, there has been nothing in the debate which has preceded that division to give equal satisfaction. Till the right hon. Baronet himself rose there was no attempt made to answer the arguments of hon. Gentlemen on this side of the House; and I think I shall be able to show in a very few sentences that the speech of the right hon. Baronet was a very imperfect, if not an entirely defective answer. The right hon. Gentleman, feeling the weakness of his cause, began in a manner usual among expert debaters, with other topics than those now under discussion. He disported himself upon the Income Tax, and he taunted those Gentlemen who support the Income Tax, while they discuss and condemn the details of that measure. We say that the existing surplus is not sufficient to dispense with the Income Tax at present, and I see no inconsistency in supporting that Income Tax for the present; but we say that the right hon. Baronet has not made the best use of the surplus which he will receive from that tax. We think that he might have disposed of that surplus in a mode better calculated at the end of the three years for which that tax is continued, to enable the Government of that day to dispense with the tax; and we think that the arrangements he has adopted will at the end of that time lead to the re-imposition of the tax. The right hon. Gentleman also taunted my noble Friend with inconsistency. Now, Sir, I see nothing inconsistent in the argument that protection may in its consequences be the bane of that industry it was intended to foster, and then, seeing the amount of capital invested, and the arrangements which have been made on the faith of existing protection, object at once, and on a sudden, to take all that protection away. The Motion of my noble Friend, however, has no reference to protection; it applies only to the terms for the admission of sugar the produce of slave labour, and of sugar the produce of free labour. The right hon. Baronet has stated that which I was sorry to hear, though I certainly expected it.
 1341 1342 1343 1344 1345 1346
 Mr. Gladstone  said, that if any difficulty existed in the apprehension of the clause, it would be better to obviate it by the introduction of some other words. But it must be recollected that this was a general Act, and intended only to regulate other special Acts to be introduced hereafter. Those special Acts would provide for their own peculiar exigencies; and he did not think that there was any difficulty in this clause which might not be readily adjudicated by a legal tribunal. He did not think there was more difficulty to be encountered in dealing with this clause than any other involving questions of commercial legislation; and it should be recollected that it had the sanction of long-continued precedent for its present shape.
 Mr. Gladstone  said, there might have been a disposition on the part of companies and engineers to take a large latitude, and it might be that restrictions formerly necessary might be brought now within narrower limits. But he was surprised at the point now taken up, because Gentlemen were now objecting to a part of the clause which limited and did not extend former powers.
 Mr. Corry  was understood to say, that although many foreign seamen had been thrown out of employment by the Merchant Seamen Act of last year, yet all foreigners who had become domiciled in this country, by obtaining a certificate of their registration and taking the oath of allegiance, which they might do at a charge of two shillings, were qualified to serve as seamen in the British merchant service.
 Mr. Vernon Smith  wished to address a few words to the House before the Motion was agreed to. He must confess that he regretted the course taken by the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down, for he did think it would be much more expedient if Her Majesty's Government, seeing the great importance of the question, and—as the right hon. Baronet had admitted in the course of his speech—the growing feeling of disrespect for the game laws, which was extending throughout the country, had imitated the course pursued by Lord Grey's Government, and had brought in a Bill embodying their views on the matter, instead of leaving it to a Committee of the House of Commons to enter upon unnecessary inquiries. What would be the result of these inquiries? Neither the right hon. Baronet nor the hon. Gentleman who had brought forward the Motion had stated to the House how they proposed the inquiry should proceed, or to what objects it should be directed. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bright) had
 86 "The system was also attended with this baneful consequence—it increased and heightened the feuds between the higher, the middle, and the lower classes. By the 22nd and 23rd of Charles II., a penalty of 5 l., 87 88 l. l., l. feræ naturæ; 89 J. Graham
 Mr. F. Maule  assured the noble Lord he had no inclination to throw any obstacles in the way of speedily passing the Railway Clauses' Consolidation Bill. He, nevertheless felt there were substantial grounds of objection to the extensive powers given by this Bill, particularly by the 47th Clause, to an irresponsible body. There was the greater necessity for an immediate decision of the House of Commons upon the propriety of reposing these extraordinary powers in the Committee, because, should these powers be refused them when they came to the latter clauses of the Bill, they would have their labour in vain, for the clauses, in many instances, must of course be remodelled. It behoved them, therefore, to decide upon the principle as quickly as possible.
 Mr. G. Berkeley  said, that the speech of the hon. Member for Durham, in bringing
 106 107 108 109
 Mr. Liddell  had heard the speech of the hon Member for Durham with great interest—with considerable pain—as he alluded to the various points he brought before the House. He did not mean to oppose the appointment of a Committee; but he must own it would have been more satisfactory to him if the hon. Member for Durham, or any hon. Gentleman on his side of the House, had indicated in their speech some shadow of the alteration in the system which they expected as the result of the labours of the Committee. He might state that his paternal property was situated in a very populous neighbourhood—that it covered a large area of ground, and that for many years the game on that property had been strictly protected. He was bound to say with regard to that immense population that he had seen nothing of them, generally speaking, but the most excellent disposition and observance of the law. At the same time, evil dispositions did exist—it was with pain he had seen several outrages take place on his father's property. One case of murder had lately occurred, and four cases of frightful outrages on the person. The House would easily believe that, on such events occuring, the subject engaged the earnest attention of his father, and every member of his family. They were willing to sacrifice all the game on the property rather than have
 102 103
 Captain Rous  said, there could be but one feeling in the House as to the moderate and statesmanlike speech which the hon. Member for Durham had made on this subject. At the same time, he was satisfied that many of his statements were exaggerated, for he had lived long enough in a sporting country to know that great exaggerations prevailed on this subject. He held in his hand a pamphlet published against the game laws which had already gone through three editions. It contained some statements connected with the estate of a noble relative of his own; and among other things, it was said, that one of the keepers had last year been destroyed by poachers. All he would say in answer to this was, that during the last three hundred years no gamekeeper had been hurt or murdered on that estate. Again, it was stated, that within a short time two keepers had shot themselves, from the fear that on the arrival of his noble relative at home they would be found fault with for want of game. This pamphlet had now been published for three months; and he hoped the House would excuse him if he were to defend the cause of his own brother. One of the keepers referred to, had been head keeper on the estate for thirty-three years; he had latterly fallen into a bad state of health, and wished to give up his place, but was prevailed upon to remain. Soon after he lost a child by death, and the sorrow so preyed upon him, that in a fit of despondency, he shot himself. It appeared that on the following day, another person who was head keeper of the greyhounds, had accompanied his wife to church; and on coming home, while his
 99 l. 100
 Lord G. Somerset  begged to assure hon. Members opposite, that his hon. Friend the Vice-President of the Board of Trade had bestowed great attention on the Alterations and Amendments suggested; but they were all of a technical character, and could, therefore, be easily disposed of on the Report being brought up. With regard to the clause affecting officers refusing to make up their accounts, &c., he (Lord G. Somerset) proposed that bail might be taken by the magistrates. With respect to Clause 120, on the subject of dividends, he had found that it admitted of no doubt in its construction, and, therefore, need not be altered.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, it was not the object of the clause to prevent the payment of dividends from the interest of capital, for that he thought was legitimate; but to prevent the payment of dividends out of the capital stock after the works were completed, and when no profits had been obtained. It was well known that many companies had gone on paying dividends out of their capital stock, as if they were in a most flourishing condition. He did
 49
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that no man had evinced himself more anxious for the protection of the small proprietors than he had. The argument of the hon. and learned Gentleman would apply to the main line equally with the deviations. Some power of deviation must be given, and the parties affected would know by the plans and by notice, how they would be affected, and that they gave up not only 100 yards, but the contingent possibility of giving up 300 yards. If the party objected to that, it would be for him to make his representations in the proper quarter.
 Lord G. Somerset  admitted that there was a seeming hardship to allow distraint upon the treasurer of an insolvent or bankrupt company. But the treasurer could at any time relieve himself by resigning his office, when the creditors would know what balance really existed. At present, the
 50
 Lord G. Somerset  said, though he was not inclined to precipitate the passing of the Bill, he must recommend to the Committee not to throw any unnecessary delay in the way. He would also undertake that full opportunity should be given to all who entertained doubts as to the propriety of investing the Committee of the Board of Trade with these important powers to express those opinions, and take, if they thought proper, the sense of the House on the clause. He begged, as there were now pending in full House many important financial and commercial propositions, which precluded the possibility of affording time for the discussion of this important subject in full House, that they would permit him to go through the clauses  seriatim,
 Lord G. Somerset  said, he would take time to consider the clause before the third reading. For the present, he would withdraw it.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, the encroachments could not be made without the sanction of the proprietors and holders of the land. This, he thought, would remove the objection of the gallant Gentleman behind him.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that the treasurer ought not to be made responsible for the whole of the debts of the company, whereas he knew nothing of their assets beyond the book account. The effect of the clause as it stood would be, to deter from accepting the office of treasurer the class of persons whom it was most desirable to have placed in that office.
 Mr. Hawes  objected to the clause. He wanted to know how capital stock was defined, and how under certain circumstances the dividends were to be paid if this clause passed as it stood. Much practical inconvenience would arise from it, because parties now paid up their capital by instalments, and received interest upon it pending the construction. There were cases in which it was advantageous to pay a dividend out of the capital stock. Besides, what one company called capital stock, another did not. There were different modes of keeping the accounts in this respect, and great practical difficulty would be imposed upon the companies unless it were defined what capital stock was. He should move as an Amendment to leave out the word "scheme."
 Mr. Hawes  reminded the noble Lord (Lord G. Somerset) of his promise last Tuesday, to state to-day the course he would pursue with respect to the power of the Committee of the Board of Trade, relative to the jurisdiction the Committee had in railway matters. He then had stated, that he had strong objections to
 47
 Mr. B. Escott  said, that the hon. Member opposite (Mr. G. Berkeley) had made a statement with respect to the game laws which was very important, and was one to which he could not give his assent. The hon. Member said, that the old game laws were more stringent and severe in their operation than the present game laws; and on that subject he (Mr. Escott) would join issue with the hon. Member, for he thought the existing statute was more stringent and oppressive than the previous one, inasmuch as the existing law, whilst it gave greater facilities for the disposal of game, increased the penalties for poaching. In one sense it added to the temptation, and on the other hand increased the penalty. They were all aware how much the Judges objected to a prosecutor placing temptations in the way of a felon, and that it was assigned as a reason for refusing costs to a prosecutor who had so acted. In this case, however, the game laws gave the greatest possible facility for the disposal of game by the poacher, which was difficult under the former law. There was another point to which he wished to direct the attention of the House, namely, the summary convictions under the game laws. He believed it would be more satisfactory to have a more common intervention of juries; for however high-minded and honourable the country gentlemen were, yet it would be more calculated to give confidence to those who were affected by the game laws, to have the cases tried before juries, than before a tribunal which, perhaps, they might suppose would be interested in the stringent operation of those laws. He was sure that every one who enjoyed the sports of the field would feel obliged to the hon. Member for Durham for affording an opportunity of showing that there was nothing tyrannical or oppressive necessary in order to encourage and maintain rural sports.
 Mr. Adderley  declared that there was no unwillingness on the part of the Members sitting on the Ministerial side of the House to the appointment of the Committee. He did not think the destruction of food by game a proper subject of inquiry by the Committee, as that would involve a question of pounds, shillings, and pence, between the landlord and the tenant, in which the Legislature could not properly interfere. A more important consideration would be the alleged connexion of crime with the game laws; and if the Report of the Committee should establish the allegations made on that head, he for one would say, Perish the game laws and all the game in the country, if thereby crime would only be diminished.
 Mr. Colvile  defended the conduct of certain magistrates of Ashby-de-la-Zouch, who had been referred to in the course of the debate, and stated that neither of them were game preservers. He was favourable to the sport of fox-hunting, and if the Report of the Committee led to any Bill, he should certainly propose a clause for the protection of foxes as well as of hares and rabbits.
 Mr. Newdegate  said, that he should not have addressed the House had it not been for several allegations contained in a petition against the game laws, which had been presented and subsequently alluded to by the hon. Member for Durham: the statements contained in that petition were no unfair instances of the exaggeration and fallacies which too often characterized statements on this subject. He (Mr. Newdegate) was well acquainted with the parish of Ruislip; he had been born in the adjoining parish of Harefield, where during great part of every year he resided; there he had for five or six years as a Magistrate attended on the bench before which all cases from Ruislip were tried. The first point in the petition to which he would allude was that stating the enormous quantity of game in Ruislip, where the quantity was nothing approaching that indicated by the petition; but the allegation which was most preposterous and the most untrue, was the complaint of the petitioners, that they were heavily rated for the maintenance of the police, whose almost sole occupation was the preservation of game and the detection of poachers. Now he could assure the House that in very few instances had he known policemen give evidence in cases under the game laws, except so far as related to the service of summonses issued by the Magistrates, and that in such cases he could not recall one instance of a policeman having appeared as the prosecutor. He assured the House that this statement was entirely without foundation, and he called upon the Home Secretary to ascertain whether there were any grounds for it. He rejoiced at the manner in which the Motion of the hon. Member for Durham had been received by the House, for it would prove to the country at large how ready the landed proprietors of that House
 112 113
 Colonel Sibthorp  agreed with what had been said by the hon. Member for Cockermouth. He would not say the same of the hon. Member for Northampton, who appeared to him in his speech rather to encourage a disposition in people to make inroads and destroy private property. He did not advocate the game laws, nor would he oppose the Committee. But he must say that the language of the hon. Member for Durham appeared to him to be consistent with all the speeches he made in this House, raising an impression in the country that there existed a bad feeling between the landlords and tenant farmers. He could not have a stronger proof that that was not the case than was shown by this circumstance—that when he was prowling about the country as the advocate of the Anti-Corn Law League he had only been able to pick six cases in which he had obtained information from tenant farmers as to the destruction caused on their farms by the game. It appeared that he had dropped into one of the most extensive localities in the United Kingdom—the county of Lincoln; and there he had met with one intelligent farmer, who told him that he would rather see the abolition of the game laws than the continuance of the Corn Laws. He could not tell where the hon. Member had picked up that one intelligent farmer; perhaps, as a friend near him had suggested, on the railroad. If that intelligent farmer had entertained the hon. Member with a hare or a pheasant, he wondered if the hon. Member would have rejected it? He was of opinion that the hon. Member would not—that if the intelligent farmer had presented him with a hare or a brace of pheasants, that he would not have been disposed to ask whether they had been shot by license or snared by a poacher. But let him tell the hon. Member for Durham to take care how he prowled about Lincolnshire; and though he had not taken out a game certificate for the last five or six years—though he cared nothing about game—yet, if he caught the hon. Member in that county, he would not be the last to assist in apprehending him, bringing him before a magistrate, who, he hoped, would inflict such a fine as was due to the punishment of such an interloper.
 Colonel Sibthorp  protested against the course they were following. By three or four clauses of this Bill, particularly the 14th, they were giving such extraordinary powers to the Board of Trade as amounted to a dangerous violation of the rules of law relative to private property. He had always understood that, by residing in England, he lived in a free land, where any man's property, be it small or large, was preserved to him, and his right to it recognized and respected; and particularly the property of the poor man, for the inviolability of whose right he was more anxious than those of the rich, or than even of his own; therefore, he should get credit for not having any selfish motive in his opposition to the clause, for his object was the public good. He admitted that the Board of Trade was an intelligent, and even, he believed, a disinterested body; but of what value would it be to a poor man to have the power of appealing to them, when he had not the means of doing so? And,
 51
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, he would not put the Committee to the unnecessary trouble of dividing, but content himself with protesting against the large powers of deviation given to the companies.
 Mr. Wodehouse  admitted the moderation which had been exhibited that night by the hon. Member for Durham, and which formed a strong contrast with the temper he had displayed on previous occasions. He and his friends had no objection to this inquiry, but he trusted that, let the result be what it might, the Committee would be a fair one. Nothing, he was convinced, would prove to be more groundless than the statements which were daily made by some hon. Gentlemen opposite, that the landlords were a selfish set, caring only for themselves, and not for their tenants.
 Mr. Francis Henry Fitzhardinge Berkeley  said, he was very unwilling that the debate should terminate without at least one Member of that House expressing his dissent from the positions which the hon. Member for Durham had assumed. It was not his intention to oppose the appointment of the Committee which the right hon. Baronet was prepared to concede; but he could not for one moment allow that the reasons which the hon. Member for Durham had stated for its appointment were valid and sufficient. Indeed, he thought the hon. Member for Durham owed the concession of this Committee to the peculiar course which he had adopted that night, so very unlike the course which had been adopted throughout the country by those persons, whether orators or writers for the press, who had advocated so strenuously the abolition of the game laws. He must say that the agitation which had been carried on in reference to that question, ever since the hon. Member for Durham gave notice of his Motion—an agitation with which the hon. Gentleman was connected, and in which he had taken part—was one, the character of which was anything but creditable. It was an agitation which, in his own opinion, was very well calculated not to forward the cause, but to make people look upon the course the hon. Member was pursuing with suspicion. He agreed on many points with the hon. Member for Durham. There was no person in that House who desired an abolition of the Corn Laws more than he (Mr. Berkeley) did. He was perfectly contented to be called anything which hon. Gentlemen pleased—a Radical, a Reformer, or if the right hon. Gentlemen opposite preferred the term, a Whig-radical—and to oppose
 92 93 94 95 96 feræ naturæ s. 97 s. l. s. 98 l. l.
 Mr. Darby  thought the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. V. Smith) had involved himself in inextricable confusion
 90 91
 Mr. Aglionby  concurred in the propriety of bringing forward this Motion, and in the sentiments expressed by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department. He certainly must say that he was surprised there could be found in the House a Member inclined to find fault with the course pursued by the right hon. Baronet. He did expect that much good would result from a full inquiry before a full Committee, where witnesses might be examined, and he believed the result would be, that a great many of the exaggerated statements that had gone abroad upon the subject would be corrected. He did believe that a portion of the statements which had been made by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Durham — and which, no doubt, that hon. Gentleman implicitly believed, not knowing so much of the country, and of the operation of the game laws as many hon. Members present—was exaggerated. The hon. Member said there had been an outcry against the game laws from one end of the kingdom to the other. Why, he had been in the north of England, and he had never heard of such an outcry. It might be that in Suffolk meetings had been got up for the express purpose; but in the north of England, in Cumberland, and in Westmoreland, nothing of such meetings had been heard, and, be it remembered, there were game preserves in those counties. Then, again, the hon. Member for Durham stated in his speech that this was a question between landlord and tenant, and he would have them to believe that the preservation of game was injurious to the cultivation of the soil. Now, he (Mr. Aglionby) did not believe that such was the case. In the part of the country to which he belonged, in Cumberland, and other parts of the north of
 104 105
 Mr. Aglionby  feared that the latitude of deviation from the line to the extent of 100 yards, would operate as an encouragement to latitude and carelessness in drawing the plans. Now, it was of the utmost importance to parties affected by railway, to know accurately how the line would cut their land, and it often happened, from the manner in which the plans were drawn, that an owner had great difficulty in distinguishing his own ground. As to the argument that the consent of the proprietors must be gained to deviations, he must impress upon the Committee, that that only applied to an
 52
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that the clause would go in direct opposition to the policy of all the Acts which had been passed of late years; which policy was, to give creditors a full remedy against the company, and, at the same time, to protect the officers. The Act, the 7th Victoria, was passed to enable companies to wind up their affairs, or to enable the creditors to compel them to wind up; so that there was no reason for the introduction of so stringent a clause as the present. He approved, therefore, of the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Birmingham.
 Mr. Aglionby  thought that that objection was merely technical. It was decided there must be some tribunal, and the only question was what that tribunal should be. If the House determined it should not be the Board of Trade, it would only be necessary to go formally through the clauses to alter the name of the tribunal.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that he quite understood the noble Lord meant the clause to apply to fictitious profits. But the cases which he had put the other day had not yet been met. The first was the case of a coal company—whether they should consider the coal as part of the capital stock of the company: the other, that of a land company, who, supposing they laid out 100,000 l. l.;
 Mr. Bright , after presenting petitions against the Game Laws from Horsham, Sussex; from Alnmouth and Alnwick, signed by farmers and landowners; from farmers and landowners resident on the west side of the Severn, in Gloucestershire; and from Ruslip, in Middlesex,
 54 55 
 
 "Twelve acres of wheat completely spoiled, ploughed up and sown with barley, the loss upon which, with the extra ploughing, harrowing, and seed, and the difference in the value of the two crops, I calculate at £45 0 0 
 32 acres more injured to the extent of six bushels per acre 57 0 0 
 20 acres of vetches destroyed 60 0 0 
 14 acres of young sainfoin 42 0 0 
 The total loss he had sustained in one year was 204 0 0" 56 l. s., s. d. s. s. l., 57 "I rent a farm of about eighty-five Scotch acres, and on this small farm I am sure I am 50 l. Stockport Advertiser, "The breed of these animals, to the extent to which it has been encouraged in some parts of this county, is beginning to excite public sympathy towards those who are really suffering. On one estate, but a few miles from here, 300 brace of rabbits are destroyed weekly, besides a large amount of hares; and when it is moreover told that they are carried to the nearest market, and made a large profit of by the owner of the estate, it is no wonder that public sympathy has been enlisted, and particularly so when several of the tenants have been obliged to quit their farms because of the destruction created by the game, without adequate compensation for the loss. We are informed that, to prevent the intrusion of rabbits on a neighbouring farm or field, the road or hedge backs which separate the farms should be occasionally strewed with gas tar. It is computed that two hares will eat as much as one sheep." "The loss of the farmer often amounts to more than his rent; and his inability to employ the necessary labour for his occupation causes a turbulent discontented spirit to exist between the employers and the employed; as
 58 l. l. s., Worcester Herald, "That some estates he had seen were a disgrace to the proprietors; he had recently counted in one field as many as eighty-three hares, and to keep these was equivalent to the support of twenty-three sheep. For his part, he would not keep them for any landlord in existence; and he would ask whether it was common honesty to expect any man to keep that quantity of game for his landlord?" 59 Aylesbury News "Some occupiers were especially injured by the game preserves. Those who held land in districts where game was in great abundance, and where, consequently, the temptation to poaching was so great as not to be resisted, had especial reason to complain of the operation of the game laws. He had been informed, on good authority, that the destruction occasioned by game amounted to at least one-fourth of the whole crop. [A voice: "In Bucks?"] Yes; there were districts in this county in which one-fourth of the crops was consumed by game. Nor was that all of which the farmer had to complain; for, besides this serious loss, he had the increased county rates to pay, and to keep the poacher's wife and family in the union poorhouse whilst he lay in gaol. The farmers, in fact, were made to pay towards the preservation of that they most wished to see wholly destroyed." 60 61 62 63 "W. E. told me, and on a subsequent day showed me, that his allotment was at best of little value to him. It was part of a small field situated with plantations full of game on three sides of it, and a heath, on which the game was also preserved, on the fourth side of it. Everything which he sowed or planted upon it was eaten up by the game, save his potatoes, and they were also destroyed, less or more. I myself counted sixty and odd rabbit holes, mostly made by young rabbits learning to excavate, as young rabbits do, among the potatoes. He had sown peas, expecting a few dinners of green ones with a bit of bacon in the summer; but he only had in all about a gallon, where he should have had at least a bushel. This was entirely the result of the game. He had tried, both last year and this, to get some turnips and greens for the winter: every blade went to the rabbits. All his neighbours were in the same predicament, less or more. This land was rented from Colonel Wyndham, of Petworth, and the game was his game and two other gentlemen's. In Midhurst we have about fifty allotments, and have frequently heard the tenants complain of damage done them by hares and rabbits, although not to any great extent; but in most cases they are afraid to say much, for fear of offending." "In one of the cases referred to in my last letter (Bruce's), the loss cannot be estimated at less than 20 s. 64 F. H. Berkeley, 65 i. e., Leicester Mercury "Magistrates, W. W. Abney, and R. G. Cresswell. — William Edwards, Thomas Edwards, jun., and John Fairbrother, all of Worthington,
 66 l. l. s., l., l., l. 67 s. s. l. 68 "I believe the agricultural poacher is the most skilful, because he begins setting snares at a very early period; a boy at twelve years old sets snares with his father." "It is usual for shepherd boys to leave their work about twilight, at which time they are obliged, unless they close their eyes, to observe hares running about in all directions—a temptation such boys cannot resist: and, from my own observations, I can state as a fact that the love of poaching has ruined more boys than all the public houses they have ever entered." "While upon the general subject of prison discipline I may remark, that however severe in physical restraints, or powerful in moral influence, it signally fails in producing any salutary impressions upon offenders convicted of infractions of the laws enacted for the preservation of game. These men, while undergoing imprisonment, appear possessed of the idea that these laws are more harshly and inflexibly administered than in other cases of a more serious character, and that the punishments awarded are unequal, disproportioned, and unjust. In support of their views they instance the double convictions and cumulative
 69 "I have frequently tried, but quite in vain, to persuade prisoners convicted of poaching, that they offend God in breaking the laws of their country; they answer, the law is oppressive, and they have as much right to the game as others. The man's neighbours, too, second him in this feeling when discharged; they receive him as usual, saying, 'You have been in prison, it is true, but not for stealing or felony.' A man loses no caste by having committed an offence against the game laws, but when discharged, goes into the society of his fellow-men quite as usual." "No, I think a man takes a hare or a pheasant with a very different feeling from that with which he would take a pig or a fowl from a farm-yard." "That while there were large quantities of game collected together, which the poachers could not avoid seeing every day, it was too great a temptation to them; they had a strong impression that they were not killing the property of any one." 70 "I have a very strong opinion that, before you attempt to preserve game in that way, it should be made a species of property; you cannot, I am afraid, go the length of making it altogether private property, but I do not agree that a wild animal cannot be the property of any one." 71 72 l. l. l., 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the operation of the Game Laws, and to report their observations and opinion thereon to the House."
 Mr. Hume  said, his hon. Friend the Member for Bristol had strangely misunderstood the object of his hon. Friend the Member for Durham in bringing forward his Motion. The hon. Member (Mr. Berkeley) in travelling to America for an argument had made quite a mistake. If his hon. Friend was disposed to compare the laws of America with the laws of England, let him take them as a whole, and let there be a special discussion upon the subject. There might be some laws in America which he (Mr. Hume) should condemn, whilst there might be others which he thought might be introduced to the manifest improvement of our own; but in referring to them as he had, the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Berkeley) had not done justice to the object of his hon. Friend the Member for Durham. His hon. Friend (Mr. Bright) did not wish to affect the property of any individual, but he wished for some alteration in these laws, because they had produced evils which no man could regard without being appalled. He (Mr. Hume) could not understand why his hon. Friend the Member for Bristol should not be as anxious for a Committee as his hon. Friend the Member for Durham, because he admitted public feeling was against these laws, and some modification was necessary in them. The hon. Member admitted this fact, and in proof of it he said societies had been established, and meetings held from one end of the country to the other, all denouncing the game laws. Could anything be stated more powerfully in support of the position
 101
 Mr. Cobden  said, that although there appeared to be a general concurrence, and a general approbation of the Motion proposed by his hon. Friend, yet there was a general disposition to impute to his hon. Friend's statements—exaggeration. He had observed, when an estimate was offered of the amount of grain consumed by game upon a farm there was a slight cry of "Oh, oh;" and he remarked to an hon. Friend who sat beside him that the country Gentlemen appeared to know less of the feelings of the farmers—he repeated that they knew less of the feelings, the circumstances, and the grievances of the farmers—than he and the other Members of the much-maligned Anti-Corn Law League. There was nothing of which the tenant-farmers complained of over their own firesides, and when released from the surveillance of proprietors, and gamekeepers, and watchers, so much as the game laws. ["Oh, oh"]. Let that "oh, oh" go forth to the country, and the people would say that the landlords knew less of the country than he did; nay more, he said that he had a larger correspondence with farmers, he had shaken hands with more, and had talked with ten times more tenant-farmers, than any other Gentleman in that House. With regard to the exaggerations imputed to the estimates of the cost occasioned on a farm by the damages of game, he could prove that these were not exaggerations. He was in Scotland last year, and received a letter from a farmer in the neighbourhood of Cupar in Fife, which he requested him to read to a public meeting. After stating the grievances that resulted from game, and expressing a hope that the Anti-Corn Law League would attack the game laws, as well as the Corn Laws, the letter went on to say, in order to give him some idea of the destruction oceasioned in that district by game, that upon about 700 Scotch acres of land held by the writer and four others from Captain Wemyss, the sum of upwards of 700 l. 114
 Mr. Spooner  said, it would be a great hardship to give the creditor of the railway the power of distraining the goods of the treasurer for the debt of the company. He would have no objection that there should be a power to distrain for the amount of the balance in the hands of the treasurer belonging to the company.
 Mr. Wakley  said, that the hon. Member for Gloucestershire had devoted much time to the investigation of facts connected with this subject, and what was his argument? That the offence of poaching was not usually committed by the houseless wanderer or vagrant, but generally by the regularly
 110 G. Berkeley: 111
 Mr. W. R. Collett  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Treasury, whether, in the newly revised Tariff, it was his intention to retain the present protection duty on straw plat, as a numerous body of industrious persons in the counties of Bedford and Hertford were deeply interested in this branch of national manufacture.
 Mr. Hayter  said, the power had been given in former acts, and he (Mr. Hayter) did not see why it should be objected to now. To restrict further the power of deviation, would be to retard the onward progress of railways.
 Mr. Hayter  believed the noble Lord did not propose to prohibit companies from applying a part of their capital to payment of dividends. If the present clause were construed by that immediately preceding, he did not think any such prohibition existed; but, taking this clause by itself, it might be differently construed. The introduction of the word "such" before dividends would obviate the difficulty, by thus making it necessary to interpret the present by the preceding clause. Then it would stand so that there would be no prohibition against companies to pay part of their dividends from capital pending the construction.
 Captain Pechell  said, that at the close of last Session an Order had been transmitted to the different Poor Law Unions throughout the country, for a return of the employments of the poor in the workhouses in each Union; and that from the Returns laid upon the Table of the House, all the Unions had complied with the Order of the House, with the exception of the Boston Union, the Guardians of which, instead of making the specified returns, thought proper to address a letter tantamount to a denial of the authority of the House, and stating that they had decided not to make such return. From what had fallen the other night from the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, he was bound to believe that it was the wish of the right hon. Baronet to discourage the employment of the poor in workhouses in the grinding and crushing of bones. And no other course was now left to vindicate the authority of the House but to insist that further instructions should be sent down to the Poor Law Guardians of that Union. The hon. and gallant Member then moved—
 "That there be forthwith laid before this House a Return from the Boston Union, stating whether the pauper inmates thereof are, or have been, since the formation of the said Union, employed in grinding or crashing bones by means of mills, machinery, or otherwise, together with the date of the erection of
 119
 Sir J. Graham , after apologizing for speaking inaudibly on account of indisposition, said, I must confess, that although the hon. Gentleman has addressed the House at very great length on the present occasion on a subject on which considerable excitement out of doors prevails, and on which the popular feeling is warmly with him, I have not any fault to find with either the tone or the temper of his speech; and I more particularly refer with pleasure to some of the closing remarks of the hon. Gentleman, because with those remarks I can cordially agree. In the first place, he has done justice to the gentlemen of England. I am satisfied that, although a large proportion of the Members of this House exercise, and are attached to the sports of the field, and are preservers of game on their properties, and delight in the amusements to which it leads, he estimates the feeling of this House rightly, when he says that upon a statement such as he has presented to the House to-night, there will be a general disposition, in the present circumstances of the case which we are now discussing, to enter on a full, fair, and dispassionate inquiry of the grievances to which he had drawn attention. And also I would observe, that it was with great satisfaction that I heard him point out the truth, that there is no higher or happier station in any country, certainly none in this, which affords a greater opportunity of doing good, than that of the resident country gentleman inspecting the labours of his tenantry, rewarding the meritorious,
 80 81 82 83 l. l. Bright: 84 "That no complaint referring to any such offence against this Act shall be heard by a justice of the peace or by a borough magistrate, being the occupier, or by a father, son, or brother of the occupier, of the factory in which such offence shall have been committed." 85
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that as a doubt
 53
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the hon. Member for Stockport was mistaken in supposing that there was any reluctant acquiescence on the Ministerial side of the House to the Motion made by the hon. Member for Durham, or (to use his words) to a full, dispassionate, and impartial inquiry into the operation of the game laws. He had had an opportunity of conferring that very day with a very large portion of agricultural Members and others sitting on the Ministerial side of the House, and there was a unanimous feeling that the inquiry ought not to be resisted. They did not anticipate, he must own, so temperate a speech from the hon. Member for Durham as that which he had made; but at the same time their view was not altered by the expectation of
 116 117 feræ naturæ, status 118
 Mr. Hutt  wished to ask a question of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Admiralty. The right hon. Gentleman was no doubt aware that in the course of last Session an Act was passed that all British seamen should register themselves, and that they should obtain a certificate of such registration, without which they could not be received on board of any British ship, and that if the captain received them he would be liable to a penalty. In the coasting trade of this country, there was a considerable body of foreign sailors engaged. The Bill of last Session afforded those men no opportunity of registering themselves: they had consequently been thrown out of employment, after, in many instances, having been engaged in the British coasting trade for ten, twenty, or thirty years, and although they were reckoned among the very best sailors employed in the trade. He wished to ask whether it was the intention of the Government to propose any measure this Session with a view to remove this hardship?
 Lord J. Russell  said: I have listened with great attention to the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State. I own that it has changed the
 173 174 175
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, that after the tone and temper which every preceding speaker had adopted in the course of the present debate, and more especially after the very temperate speech of the hon. Member for Finsbury — and than that speech one more candid and fair, or more creditable to the speaker he (the Earl of Lincoln) had seldom heard—he had hoped the House might have been spared such an address as had been delivered by the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down. The hon. and learned Member had thought it not unworthy of his position in the House of Commons to renew against the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) those insinuations which had been so much dwelt on out of doors; he had thought it not unworthy or unfair in his place in Parliament to repeat against the right hon. Baronet, the charges of individually breaking seals and re-sealing letters, though he knew that the right hon. Baronet, equally with preceding Secretaries of State, was perfectly innocent of any such charge; and that these things had taken place under successive Governments in the same manner, under the same roof of the Post Office, and by the same persons, without any specific instructions on the subject from the Secretaries of State. He well knew that there was no one in the House who was likely to believe that letters were brought from the Post Office to the Home Office; and that his right hon. Friend broke the seals, re-sealed them, and sent them on. No man there believed that; but out of doors there were persons who did believe it; and his right hon. Friend had been most severely and unjustly aspersed by these
 187 188 Aglionby: 189
 Mr. Bernal  had not intended to have spoken again on this question; but as the noble Lord had stated that he had said this was not a question of privilege, he rose to state that he did not swerve an inch from the ground he had taken on the former occasion. He thought that the question stood on much higher grounds than the technical one of privilege; but they had not come to that question yet; this Motion was only clearing the way for
 190 "For little difference could he see, "Twixt Tweedle-dum and Tweedle-dee." 191
 Mr. Gladstone  said, that he had been referred to as having spoken lightly of the East Indies. That was a severe remark. What he had really said was, that the plea of necessity, which had been urged on the part of the West Indies as a justification of a differential duty in their favour, was a plea totally inapplicable to the East Indies. He did not add to that in the slightest degree, nor did he in the slightest degree recede from it. The right hon. Gentleman also explained that he had been misunderstood, probably on account of rapidity or indistinctness in a passage of his speech the other night, in
 231 Economist
 Captain Harris  was understood to say,
 192
 Mr. Disraeli : Sir, the hon. Member for Finsbury has brought before the House his proposition in an intelligible shape. He has laid before the House the statement of a personal grievance, and he has distinctly affirmed to us that in making that statement he makes no personal attack upon any individual. Sir, I should have hardly thought that it was necessary to make that declaration, had it not been for the associations connected with this Motion, which perhaps originated in other debates to which I myself mean not to refer. If the case of the last General warrant that was issued by a Secretary of State be compared with the last Post Office warrant that was issued by a Secretary of State, I think we may clearly in the parallel discover that no personal imputation need be appealed to, in order to vindicate a public right. Sir, there is not the slightest doubt that the last general warrant issued by a Secretary of State was an act of tyranny, an act of oppression, an act essentially iniquitous; but no one pretends that the Secretary of State who issued that general warrant was a tyrant, an oppressor, a man eminently unjust. On the contrary, Lord Halifax was a very good sort of man. Society under these circumstances steps in and settles the rule which decides these questions. It acknowledges that usage is the moral vindication of the Minister; but while it frees the Minister from any personal stigma, it does not emancipate him from the consequence of an il-
 149 150 151 152 153 154 155 156
 Mr. Hawes  did not approve of the proposed standard. He thought there would be great if not insuperable difficulty in determining by such a test the quality of various kinds of sugar. Could it be expected that a Custom-house officer in London, Cork, or Liverpool, would be qualified to give an opinion on the qualities of sugar? How could he judge of the granulation, power, and other qualities of sugar? If the Custom-house officer was not qualified to make those distinctions, how could the distinctive duties be levied? The right hon. Gentleman had referred to the white clayed sugar of Java as the standard of quality; but if he took that standard, the great bulk of the sugar of the East Indies would come in at the lower duty. The Custom-house officer, then, was to be the sole judge, and every merchant and port in the United Kingdom was to be dependent on his judgment. If the right hon. Gentleman had made the quantity of saccharine matter the test of quality, then he (Mr. Hawes) could understand him. By that test the amount of duty might be determined by the variation shown by the saccharometer; but endless mistakes would result from depending on the taste or judgment of a Custom-house officer. Why not let the quality depend on the skill and ingenuity of the manufacturers in different parts of the world, and let the consumer have the benefit? Now, with respect to the proposed discriminating duty, how would the right hon. Gentleman insure uniformity of judgment on the part of the Custom-house officers? He had taken pains to ascertain the opinions of persons connected with the trade—of the best practical experience—and they told him that the system would not succeed. When practical men took this view he felt that he had a right to ask the right hon. Gentleman to make inquiries of persons connected with the trade, and let them give their opinions as to how far his plan was practicable. He would have expected the right hon. Gentleman to have told them whether the Customs' officers had reported in favour of this plan. Now,
 228 ad valorem
 Mr. B. Hawes  wished to know what effect the course recommended by the right hon. Baronet would have upon the ultimate disposal of the Resolution.
 Mr. Speaker  said, that the hon. Member was irregular in referring to a newspaper for what was said in that House in a previous debate.
 Mr. Speaker : It is quite evident, from the hon. Gentleman's observations, that he is referring to a speech made by the hon. and learned Member for Bath in a former debate; and I must inform the hon. Member that it is quite irregular for any hon. Gentlemen to allude to a previous debate.
 Mr. Speaker  said, he was sure the House would feel that it was quite impossible that the hon. Member could be allowed to refer to any words spoken by another hon. Member in a previous debate.
 Mr. Roche : I may be permitted at any rate to ask this question. Certain observations, I understand, were made—supposing that they were made—
 Mr. Roche : Well, then, I heard of a speech which has been attributed to the hon. and learned Gentleman, in which I find the following words, in alluding to a large body of the Irish Members:—"They have run away from their posts."
 Mr. E. B. Roche  said, that he had a question to ask of the hon. and learned Member for Bath, for the purpose of asking which he had come expressly from Ireland. As this was a question referring
 138 Times
 Mr. Aglionby  hoped his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury would continue to press for a free and full inquiry until he obtained it, and he certainly should give him every support for that purpose. He should not have spoken had it not been for the speech of the noble Lord the Member for London, and for those of two Members of the Committee, namely, the hon. Member for Kendal and the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool. It was rather remarkable that the two latter speeches gave essentially different versions of the proceedings before the Committee. The country required that this matter should be made as clear as possible, and that the House should not sanction a violation of the Post Office Department. The country would not be satisfied until it heard where, and how, and to what extent the confidence which had been displayed in this Office had been violated. The noble Lord the Member for London assumed that the letters of his hon. Friend had been opened—this, however, had not been admitted—and that they had been opened by the warrant of the Secretary of State. He was surprised that the noble Lord should refuse inquiry on such a slight ground as he alleged, for that could never satisfy the country. What had the Committee done? They had not only not reported on the case of the hon. Member for Finsbury, but from the statement of two hon. Members of the Committee, who had addressed the House on the question, it appeared that they had not even considered the subject. One of
 180 181 182
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could assure his hon. Friend who sat behind him, that there were many parts of his speech in which he concurred. He was perfectly sensible of the value of their East India possessions, for he had a full knowledge of their capabilities for extensive commercial intercourse with other countries. Having complimented the hon. Member, he proceeded to say, that his hon. Friend would believe him when he said, that if any proposition were to be made injurious to the sugar of the East Indies, he would not be a party to it. He knew that he was under the imputation that because he had a connexion with the West Indies he made such a proposition; but that was the very circumstance which would make him most unwilling, of all other men, to propose a measure calculated in the slightest degree to be injurious to the East Indies. Last Session it had been proposed, that there should be a general duty, applied to all sugars the produce of all British posses-sessions, and discriminating duties applied to different degrees of sugar the produce of Foreign countries. On that occasion he had stated—and by that statement he was prepared to abide—that the mode proposed was not the just manner for arranging the question. He then stated, that in the then existing arrangement as to East and
 225 ad valorem 226 s. 227
 Mr. Warburton  did not altogether differ from the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool, but he did not consider that the Committee had in any way whatever entered upon the question of discretion in the issuing of warrants. No discussion ever arose in the Committee as to whether they had the power or not of deciding on the expediency of each case. But as an independent Member, and looking to the composition of the Committee, he did not think that it would have been a discreet exercise of his power to have raised the question. He thought that the best course which they could take was to give a general statement as to how this power was exercised, and not go into any particular case by name; but they examined to see whether the Government had acted from honest motives; and the inference they drew they not only intended to apply to the Members of the present Government, but to their predecessors. He differed from the noble Lord as to no question having arisen as to whether they had the power of going into any particular case.
 Mr. Hume  said, the question was one of the greatest interest to the country, and he believed excited more attention out of doors than in that House. He was glad that the question had been so much narrowed, and he must express his astonishment that the right hon. Baronet should not have thought it right to accede to the Motion. He had not had the moral courage to say that he had issued the warrant and authorised the opening of his hon. Friend's letters; and it appeared to him the greatest want of moral courage he had ever witnessed in that House for the right hon. Baronet to allow the whole odium of the case to fall upon the Post Office authorities. These letters, it would appear, had been opened in the Secret Department
 178 179
 Mr. Hume  seconded the Motion. He had never heard a case brought forward more clearly than this had been by the hon. Gentleman, and he hoped it would produce its proper effect upon Her Majesty's Government. India deserved favour, if favour were to be shown to any one particular interest. He objected to the Government plan; he objected to this constant meddling from year
 224
 Mr. M. Milnes  entreated the indulgence of the House for a few moments. As he was one of those whom the noble Lord the Member for London had facetiously designated rebels, he hoped the House would permit him to explain the grounds on which he felt compelled to support the Motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury. In taking this course, he denied that he could be accused of want of confidence in the Government. His vote had nothing whatever to do with his confidence in the Government. The idea of making a warrant, which was to serve as the justification of an officer's conduct, a secret document, was an absurdity and an anomaly. He believed that the meanest subject of Her Majesty had a right to know by what authority a measure of police had been exercised towards him. Now he regarded the right hon. Baronet as the head police-officer of this kingdom. He could not refuse to the hon. Member for Finsbury the right of ascertaining the justification for his letters being opened, which the warrant would be. If it was refused, he did not know but these letters might have been opened on totally illegal grounds by the subordinates of the Post Office. He did not know but that on a future occasion the power might be greatly abused. He believed in his heart that the right hon. Baronet had not abused it; but that was no reason why on some other occasion, and in some less happy state of things, the Minister might not abuse the trust reposed in him, and on these grounds he should vote for the Motion of the hon. Member.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  said: I very much regret that the little progress which was made in public business on Tuesday last, deprived me of the opportunity of bringing forward the Motion of which I had given notice, that certain officers belonging to Her Majesty's Post Office should attend the House, for the purpose of informing it under what authority they had been parties to the detaining, delaying, or opening any post letters of myself, who was a Member of this House. I repeat my regret, that I was prevented from calling the attention of the House, on a former evening, to a
 139 140 141 142 143 144 " Nottingham, Tuesday. "My dear Sir—Mindful of your great services, I snatch a moment from excitement to enclose you a taste of what we are doing. I never saw a greater scene of moral excitement; and, had the Whig compact been acted upon, Nottingham for evermore would have returned Tory Members, but now I hope to banish the genus for ever. I have discovered that the Tory leaders took a number of paid men to South Derbyshire to personate not dead, but living voters, with a view of being beforehand with the real Simon Pures. I have names and all for you—amount paid—who voted. I have just returned from a village, four miles distant, with forty votes, all right; am off to another, at the other side, to make it all right; and then back to the market-place, for half-past eight, to make that all right. Read the enclosed — it is worth 10,000 l. "Yours very faithfully, "FEARGUS O'CONNOR. "P.S. Tell Hobhouse that should we be beat by the contractor's neutrality he need never again show his nose in Nottingham." 145 "That the seizing of the mail, and breaking open the post-letters, by any military officer or soldier, is a violation of the right of the subject; and also that the breaking open the letters directed to or sent from a Member is a breach of privilege of this House." 146 147 148 "That Lieutenant-Colonel William Leader Maberly, Secretary of the General Post Office, do attend this House upon Monday next, and that he do bring with him a certain book of and belonging to the Post Office department for the year 1842, called the 'President's Order Book,' and also a certain other book belonging to the said department for the year 1842, called the 'Inspector's Order Book.' "
 Mr. Wakley  said: The hon. and gallant Member who has just sat down, has stated that he considers the right hon. Baronet
 193 194 J. Graham 195 196
 Mr. Watson  would make a few observations in explanation of the vote he meant to give in favour of the Motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury. This was a question of privilege. Opening the letters of a Member of that House without a lawful authority was undoubtedly a breach of privilege. They could arrive at the facts of the case only by calling these parties to the Bar of the House. When the facts were obtained, then arose a question deeply affecting the rights of the Members of that House, which would require their serious consideration. No question more affected their privileges than that of the
 176 in nomine "That a general warrant to apprehend the author of a libel is illegal, and if executed on a Member of this House is a breach of privilege;"—"and that the seizing or taking away the paper of the author or publisher of a libel is illegal, and that such seizing or taking away the papers of a Member of this House is a breach of the privilege of this House;" 177
 Mr. F. Baring  expressed his concurrence in the right hon. Baronet's proposal, and he had come down to the House prepared generally to approve of the scale which the right hon. Baronet had drawn up. At the same time, he must observe that he had been sorry to see that the scale which had been drawn out, nominally upon the principle of an  ad valorem
 Sir J. Graham : Sir, it is necessary for me to throw myself on the indulgence and justice of the House, considering the circumstances in which I am placed; and I hope, also, that I may be able to recall them to a dispassionate consideration of the reasons which I shall endeavour to adduce in support of the vote which I shall consider it my duty to give on the present occasion. In the first place, I think it desirable to divest the discussion of all that is extraneous, and that does not bear upon the Motion which has been made by the hon. Member for Finsbury. I shall not deal, therefore, with the elaborate speech which has just been delivered by the hon. Member for Shrewsbury. The hon. Gentleman has discussed questions connected with the ties of party, and has raised the question of what is the authority of the leader of a party, and what is the freedom, pushed, perhaps, to licentiousness by the hon. Gentleman, which follows are entitled to enjoy; and he has also stated that tyranny sometimes is exercised by me. Tyranny of this description is best met by open resistance; and I rejoice to find that the hon. Gentleman, thinking that tyranny has been exercised, at length has arrived at a period when rebellion, he thinks, may be open and avowed. I, Sir, am glad to learn this decision from the hon. Gentleman—and that we shall know hereafter, whatever may be the place in the House which that hon. Gentleman thinks proper to occupy—that he is in open and avowed rebellion, and no longer in a state of covert mutiny. I will now proceed to discard another matter, which I believe it is desirable should not embarrass our consideration upon the present occasion. The hon. Member for Finsbury, towards the close of his speech, referred to a question of privilege which, as he thought, might be connected with this subject; but I understood him distinctly to state, that on the present occasion, and as the question now stands, he does not rely upon the case of privilege connected with the circumstances of his case. I shall not, therefore, Sir, address any observations to the question of privilege. The hon. Gentleman says that his case may hereafter assume that shape; but as the matter now stands he does not raise the question of privilege. I may, in
 157 Duncombe: 158 "I entirely agree in the reasons urged by my right hon. Fiiend"—that is, by myself—"for proposing that the Committee appointed to investigate this matter should be a Secret Committee. I think the purposes of the inquiry will be more fully attained, the investigation will be more strict, and the Members of the Committee will be better able to arrive at a correct conclusion, if the inquiry be conducted secretly, than would be the case if it were an open Committee, and if the matter were canvassed day by day." 159 Duncombe: 160 Interruption. "I do not know, Sir, whether it will be necessary to repeat to this House the charges which I had made, at the same time I see no reason why I should not do so. The charges which I had then stated I was prepared to prove before the Committee, and by good evidence, were these—first, that the letters of Foreign Ministers had been and were up to the present time opened; second, that a very unscrupulous use had been made for the last two years of this secret power which was possessed by the Government of opening letters; third, that a roving commission had been sent down through the country in the year 1842, for the purpose of opening letters: that letters of certain individuals had been opened, and I believe are now opened, and that my own letters had been opened." Duncombe: 161 "That it be an instruction to the Secret Committee on the Post Office, that they allow Thomas Slingsby Duncombe, Esq., Member for the Borough of Finsbury, to attend before said Committee, and produce and examine witnesses in support of the petitions of Joseph Mazzini, of Charles Stolzman and others, referred to the said Committee." 162 163 164 seriatim 165 166
 Mr. Hogg  said, that before he drew the attention of the House to the Motion of which he had given notice, he must first discharge the agreeable duty of expressing to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government his grateful thanks, and the grateful thanks of every person connected with India, for the great boon conferred upon that country, upon the West Indies, and upon the country at large, by the reduction of the Sugar Duties; and it was not without much reluctance that he offered any objection to the details of the measure. The Resolution laid upon the
 211 s. d. s. s. 212 s. d., s. 213 214 s. d., s. d. 215 s. s. l. s., l. "Whereas it is expedient to increase the duties of Customs payable on sugars, the growth, produce, or manufacture of the East Indies." 216 "Having laid before the Board, your letter of the 19th ulto., transmitting a letter from sundry merchants connected with the East India Trade Committee on the subject of the new duty and classification of East India sugar, and stating that as the Act 1 and 2 Geo. IV. c. 106, has now come into operation, it is important that a fair and indisputable standard should be speedily adopted, to decide what sugars are justly liable to the higher duty attached to clayed sugar. I have it in command to acquaint you, for the information of the said Committee, that the standard on which the duties on East India sugars are now charged, viz., colour, was adopted, in the opinion of the Lords of the Committee of Privy Council for Trade, and confirmed by the Lords of the Treasury, as the best criterion by which to judge of the comparative quality of sugar, as far as regards the degree of refinement it has undergone. I am at the same time to add, that the matter is now again under the consideration of the Board of Trade, and until the Commissioners receive their Lordships' further directions thereon, it is not in their power to make any alteration in the mode of charging the duty." 217 ad valorem Gazette s. d. s. d., s. s. d.; s. d.; s. d.; s. d. "Fine white Bengal (Benares) 68 s. s.; s. s.; s. s. Liverpool Times. 218 "It is desirable that colour alone should be the standard of quality—we mean, that every sample below a certain degree of whiteness, should pass at the lower duty, whatever be the beauty of its appearance, or the perfection of its manufacture." "That refiners are quite agreed as to the perfect facility of such a standard." s. s. "There was a very good reason in 1841 for adopting such a course, because the great bulk of the sugars of Cuba, although they cannot technically be called refined, are yet much more so than the British sugars, and coming in at a duty rated by weight, would enjoy a great relative advantage. This does not hold good of Java and Manilla sugars, in which the refined sort forms a very small and almost imperceptible portion of the quantity produced." 219 "It had been said by the hon. Member for Dumfries, that the time had been when a distinction was made as to the duties imposed on the different classes of British sugars. The hon. Member for Dumfries had therefore contended that there should be such a distinctive duty; but the difficulty of drawing the line between the various descriptions of British sugars had been the reason why it had been abandoned. Now the difficulty, whatever it might have been formerly, must be enhanced by the Resolution of the hon. Gentleman. The hon. Gentleman said, let there be a light duty upon brown Muscovado, and upon white clayed a duty of 34 s. 220 s. d., 221 l. l. l. 222 s. d. s. 223 "That it is the opinion of this House, that there ought not to be any discriminating duty between sugars, Muscovado and clayed, not being refined; and that any such duty would interfere with the measure of equalisation between sugars the produce of the East and West Indies."
 Mr. Jervis  was aware that after the speech of the noble Lord the Member for London, the debate had lost much of its interest; but still he did not think that speech was very well calculated to satisfy the country. He would, therefore, proceed to state very briefly his motives for voting in favour of the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury. The course taken by the right hon. Baronet in the debate on the question then before the House, was certainly not calculated to restrain his hon. Friend from adopting further means to procure justice from the House. In the course of the first discussion on the subject, the right hon. Baronet had carefully abstained from making any amends to his hon. Friend. On the contrary, the right hon. Baronet had allowed some hon. Members who sat behind him on that (the Ministerial) side of the House, to throw out aspersions on the character of his hon. Friend, without any attempt on his part to repress them; but the force of public opinion since then had been brought to bear upon the right hon. Baronet, and he had accordingly shown himself on that evening willing to make those amends, which one Gentleman had a right to demand from another under such circumstances. If the case went still further—and he trusted his hon. Friend would persevere in demanding an inquiry until he obtained all the compensation which a Member of that House and a Gentleman had a right to demand—there could be little doubt but that the right hon. Baronet would be found to advance still further, and to yield that perfect vindication of his character which his hon. Friend had a right to expect. As the case at present stood, he would say his hon. Friend ought not to be satisfied with what had taken place. He had made three distinct
 183 184 185 186
 Mr. Jervis  explained. In what he had said about opening letters, fabricating seals, and re-sealing, he did not mean any thing personal to the right hon. Baronet. He believed the right hon. Baronet found those practices in his office when he came to it.
 Sir R. Peel : There was, Sir, one part of the speech of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London (Lord J. Russell) which I beard with peculiar satisfaction. I understood the noble Lord distinctly to state that while he differed from the Government as to the propriety of the course they had pursued of opening any letter for the purpose of promoting other than our own domestic and peculiar interests, yet, that in the case of the letters of
 197 198 199 200 201 202 "During the outbreak in the manufacturing and mining districts which took place in August, 1842, in the week of the greatest anxiety a clerk was sent down from the London Post Office, with directions, under the authority of the Secretary of State's warrant, to open the letters of six parties named therein, all taking a prominent part in the disturbances of that period. In the same week, the same clerk was directed, under authority of two other such warrants, to open the letters of ten other persons named, and a fortnight later to open the letters of one other person; making seventeen in all. Most of the persons whose letters were ordered on this occasion to be opened, were indicted, and many both indicted and convicted, before the Special Commission appointed to try the parties concerned in those disturbances. With one exception, these warrants were issued between the 18th and 25th of Augst, 1842, and they were all cancelled on the 14th of October." 203 Duncombe: Duncombe: 204 primâ facie primâ facie 205 206 mouvemens divers 207 208
 Sir R. Peel  thought it would be difficult to come to a satisfactory conclusion that night. There was much practical difficulty in the question; and he thought, without reference to party, and whatever opinions hon. Gentlemen might entertain on the Budget as a whole, they had only one object in discussing the present question, and to adjust this matter of detail. He was sure hon. Gentlemen would admit that the position of the Government was one of difficulty, because they were not at liberty before announcing their plan to make very extensive inquiries; and it was necessary to limit their consultation to a very small number of persons. The object of the Government was not to subject East Indian sugar to any disadvantage; they did not desire to favour the West Indies at the expense of the East Indies. In point of population, the East Indies were not subject to the same difficulties, in some respects, as the West Indies; but the House had, as he apprehended, decided that with reference to our own Colonies they would not take
 229 s. s., s. d. 230
 Sir R. Peel  stated, that his suggestion merely referred to the Amendment of the hon. Member for Beverley; he had no expectation of passing the Resolution that evening.
 Sir R. Peel  said that, as his only object was to do justice by all parties, no unfair advantage would be taken of the temporary withdrawal of the Amendment. The Government could now communicate freely with the officers of the Customs and other persons conversant with the qualities of sugar, and thus obtain information which the nature of the question wholly precluded them from doing previously to their intentions becoming known.
 Viscount Howick : I have heard, Sir, in common with the House, with great satisfaction, the observations which last fell from the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary. Those observations will have the effect of taking away from the remainder of this debate much of that bitterness which has unfortunately belonged to it. I must say, I should have preferred this question not being again brought before this House. I could have wished, without referring further to the past, that some Bill or Resolution had been brought forward with a view to regulate the exercise of this obnoxious power in future, and guarding against the abusess which may have attended its former exercise. But as the hon. Member for Finsbury has thought proper to bring this proposition before us, I think we are bound to deal with it as justice and reason require. And, Sir, it is
 167 168 "So far as the criminal warrants go, no suspicion arises that unfairness or partiality has directed their issue. With regard to the other class of warrants" — that is, political warrants, of which this is supposed to have been one—"though there have been some few issued by different administrations that have been in power during the last twenty-two years, in regard to which it is obvious that on a subsequent review of the facts, a difference of opinion might arise as to the discretion exercised in each particular case, yet your Committee see no reason to doubt that the conduct of the Secretaries of State belonging to each of those administrations has been guided by any other motive than an anxious desire to preserve the public peace with the maintenance of which they were charged." 169 170 171
 Viscount Sandon  would merely allude to one point in the speech of the noble Lord. The noble Lord seemed to imply, from the Report of the Committee, that there was a difference of opinion as to the discretion with which the power had been exercised by the Secretary of State, and that expressions were resorted to in order to conceal a difference of opinion between the Members of the Committee. The Committee did not consider that it was a
 172 bonâ fide
 Mr. Bernal  hoped he would not be considered importunate in taking that opportunity of requesting the serious attention of the right hon. Baronet to the general subject of the collection of taxes. If there was one evil more crying than another, it was the mode of collecting surcharges, particularly in the metropolis. He knew small tradesmen who, rather than take the trouble of protecting their rights, submitted to the overcharge, as their business would not permit their attendance and loss of time in attending to the appeal. Then, with respect to the collectors of taxes. They were paid by a small percentage. He knew an instance of one whose per centage amounted to about 70 l.,
 Mr. Williams  said, he hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would consent to extend the time beyond the 14th of March. If he did not, he could assure him a great and ruinous loss would be sustained by thousands of persons who dealti
 Mr. Gladstone  said, he should confess he did not agree with the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, that it was desirable a postponement of the question should take place. In his opinion the public Revenue would lose from 50,000 l. l. 248 249 250 s. s. d., s. d., s. d.
 Mr. Collett  confessed his ignorance of much of the distictions that were drawn between different qualities of sugar, and said he would be glad if the right hon. Baronet had told the House what was meant by Muscovado sugar.
 Mr. Haslie  thought that it would be much better to postpone the consideration of the Resolutions until the Government had made up their minds as to the classification. From his experience of Custom-house officers and this trade, he could state without hesitation, that the plan of discrimination suggested in the Resolutions was perfectly impracticable, as it would lead to endless disputes. He would not then open the question which was so ably brought forward a few nights ago by the hon. Member for Beverley; but he would merely observe that he trusted that the Government, on reflection, would consent to have only one certain duty on Colonial sugars. This would be a great step towards the simplification of the Custom-house duties, with respect to which the right hon. Baronet had already done so much, and proposed to do so much more during the present Session.
 Mr. Bouverie  thought the demand made in favour of the traders should not be refused. The question was simply one of justice. The parties who were engaged in trade paid the duty merely in advance for the country, and by immediately bringing the system of reduced duties into operation, they prevented those parties from recovering the advance which they had thus made. The Government were, in his opinion, bound in common justice to allow them a drawback on the duty paid for the sugars now on
 253
 Lord John Russell  said, an observation had been made by his right hon. Friend the Member for Taunton with respect to what had passed on a former night respecting Colonial and East India sugars. He could not but remember that the right hon. Baronet, when originally bringing forward his plan, had stated that 70,000 tons was the exact quantity which be expected to have imported from the East Indies, and that all that quantity would be liable to the higher duty. He thought the intentions of the Government ought to be known on that subject, as after what had followed in 1836, any intentions with respect to their interference with the East India interests should be distinctly understood.
 Lord John Russell  thought that the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman was perfectly fair. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would give some notice of the course which he intended to take. He would not suggest two days' notice; but probably the right hon. Gentleman would, on Thursday, be able to give some explanation of the course he intended to take on Friday.
 Mr. Hawes  said, the right hon. Gentleman commenced his speech by saying that it was an understanding in the House that no discussion as to classification was at present to take place, and yet he had entered into a long though not a very convincing statement on the subject. He (Mr. Hawes) felt that it was therefore open to him to follow the right hon. Gentleman through the same topics; but he would not avail himself of his right, as he thought it better to wait until they had the whole proposition of the Government respecting classification before them. This much, however, he should say, that the right hon. Gentleman had convinced him, and he believed the majority of hon. Gentlemen behind him, that the proposed alteration of the duties on sugars, according to their different qualities, was almost impossible. The right hon. Gentleman admitted that if there was no distinction in duties there would be no difficulty in the matter whatever, and the onus therefore lay with the Government to show why they could not do away with these distinctions altogether. The plan of
 251 l. l.
 Mr. Hawes  thought, when a few facts were laid before it connected with the present matter, the House would see the propriety of modifying and altering the plan proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, winch was full of hardship. The hon. Member read a letter from an eminent mercantile house in the City, in which the writer sought for himself, and on behalf of his trade, permission to clear off duty-paid stock before the right hon. Gentleman's plan came into operation. This writer declared that in the event of the Bill being carried, his house would lose to the amount of 2,000 l.
 Mr. Hawes  would ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he decidedly meant to adhere to his proposed scheme of distinctive duties? If so, he thought that subject very well worth the consideration of the House and the Government also; but it seemed to him that if they agreed to the present Resolutions, they might be supposed as sanctioning the principle of these distinctive duties. But, for his part, he meant to oppose that principle, and would take every possible opportunity of dividing the House upon the subject.
 Mr. C. Wood  suggested another reason for postponing the further consideration of the subject; namely, that time might be afforded to the right hon. Gentleman to make further inquiries as to the correctness of the estimates of the different qualities of sugar, which would be introduced under this plan. It had been stated that out of the 70,000 tons which it was estimated would be introduced from the East Indies, a much larger proportion than was estimated by the right hon. Baronet would be introduced at the lower range of duties. The consequence would be a loss to the Revenue of about 200,000 l. s. d. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that if the Resolutions were now passed, the House, on resuming the consideration of the subject on a subsequent day, if the inquiries to be instituted by Government were favourable to the plan as it stood, would be in a situation to expedite the progress of the Bill. But he would not object to postpone the further consideration of the Resolutions to a future day, on the understanding that the question should then be disposed of, and the Bill should be allowed to go through its various stages with all possible expedition, so that it might come into operation as early as possible. He would, therefore, feel no objection to the course proposed by the hon. Member for Halifax, on these conditions:—first, that by consenting to the postponement of the Resolutions he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) did not give any pledge as to the abandonment of these Resolutions as they at present stood; and, secondly, on a general understanding that the discussion should be taken on the Resolutions as proposed, and that if they were agreed to, no impediment should be opposed to the progress of the Bill. If he understood
 255
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he was a little surprised at the observations which had just fallen from the hon. Member for Lambeth; because he understood that the general opinion of the House, expressed in the discussions of preceding evenings, had been that a full and ample inquiry into the practicability or expediency of this matter could not be made until the Government plan was before the House. It had been understood, as he conceived, that application was to be
 242 243
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer , in moving the Resolutions of which he had given notice relative to the Sugar Duties, said, he felt bound to state to the House, in the first place, that in proposing the Resolutions which he then had to introduce for its consideration, it would not be necessary for him to enter into any lengthened statement with respect to the details of his present measure, inasmuch as the. House had already, on more occasions than one, and recently too, discussed and disposed of those points which were of the most material consequence in his proposition. They had decided that Foreign sugar the
 239 s. d.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that, in addition to the Notice which he had on the Paper with respect to the Sugar Duties, there was another with respect to a grant out of the Consolidated Fund, which he wished now to propose. In consequence of the early period at which Easter would fall this year, there would not be funds for carrying on the public business up to the 5th of April, unless a vote were taken on the present occasion. He did not apprehend there would be any objection, and as the vote was the foundation of a Bill which would require to be passed before the 5th of April, he hoped the House would consent to it without opposition. He begged to propose a vote of 8,000,000 l.
 Mr. Labouchere , referring to the declaration of the Government, that they were disposed to look thoroughly and completely into the question of the possibility and propriety of a classification of sugar before pledging themselves or the House upon the principle, observed, that it was a most important and most difficult question. Originally he approached that discussion with a disposition to believe a classification the best course to be adopted; forming that opinion very much upon the knowledge that it was the sentiment of a gentleman to whose authority, while he was living, the greatest weight was always attached—Mr. J. D. Hume; but then that gentleman did not contemplate a distinction between slave-labour Foreign sugar and free-labour Foreign sugar, and his principle for desiring a further classification was to meet the case of the fine while sugar of the Havannah, which, although not (technically speaking) refined sugar, approached near to it. He (Mr. Labouchere), as this discussion had gone on, had become very strongly impressed with the extreme difficulty of the distinction in practice while an unsuccessful attempt would produce very great inconvenience. He understood the Government did not wish to give any peculiar advantage to the West India sugars over East India beyond what the sugars might merit; that the principle of legislation should be a  bonâ fide 246
 Dr. Bowring  felt some alarm at the speech of the hon. Member for Montrose, especially as he remembered the compliment which had been paid to that hon. Gentleman a few nights since by the right hon. Baronet opposite. He must say that he thought the hon. Member (Mr. Hume) had evinced too little regard for the great and paramount interests of the consumers.
 Mr. Parker  observed, that if this plan had been adopted at the usual time of passing the Sugar Duties, he should not have urged a drawback; but as it had been brought forward several months before the Sugar Duties were usually adopted, the sugar refiners and other extensive dealers would not have calculated on such a change; it would, therefore, he attended with great injustice to those who had large stocks on hand.
 Mr. Roebuck  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman (Sir Robert Feel) a question, of which he had given notice. The subject was the negotiation now going on between this country and the United States relative to the Oregon Territory. He wished to
 236 237
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask a question of the right hon. Baronet opposite. The hon. Member for Bath had given notice of a Motion with respect to the window duty. If the hon. Gentleman should succeed in obtaining a Committee, he wished to know if the right hon. Baronet
 238
 Mr. Hume  hoped that on Friday the Chancellor of the Exchequer would be able to state to what extent the Government was prepared to allow a drawback, or at any rate to postpone his plan coming into operation. It would be a very great hardship on the dealers if they did not allow them a drawback for the stocks which they had on hand, which they had taken out of the Queen's warehouses. He was glad that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had acceded to delay the further consideration until Friday. He also thought that the observation of the hon. Baronet the Member for Dover was well worthy the attention of the House. The Government should make up their minds as to the duration of these protective duties. He was satisfied in his own mind that they would not be permanently continued; but the Government should at once state that they proposed them for a certain period, say for three, four, or five years. There was such uncertainty at the present moment, that no one would advance capital for the purpose of sugar cultivation. They might obtain an enormous supply of sugar from the East Indies, but not a shilling of additional capital, as he believed, had been embarked in the cultivation of sugar there, in consequence of the uncertainty which prevailed. They, therefore, should at once say that they intended the
 256
 Mr. Hume  must express his surprise at the observation of his hon. Friend, as he had not said one word as to the permanence of the protective duty. His observation was directed for the benefit of the consumers of sugar. At the present moment the cultivation of sugar was not carried to the extent that it might be, in consequence of capitalists not being willing to embark in it on account of the uncertainty. All that he said was, fix the present plan for a limited period, either two, three, or four years, and this would induce an increased cultivation of sugar in the East Indies, and by this means the price would be reduced. He was as little in favour of protection as his hon. Friend, as he was anxious that sugar from all places should be admitted on a footing of equality.
 Mr. Borthwick  thought the measure on the Table exceedingly just and equitable, and one which he could see no difficulty in carrying out in practice. He also thought that a protection was due to the West India proprietors after the great experiment in the labour market of which they had been made the victims.
 Mr. Poulett Scrope , seeing the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury in his place, would put the question of which he had given notice on Friday, on the subject of the
 235 s. d.
 Mr. Wallace  was prepared to state, that the alleged impression that an alteration of the Sugar Duties would take place was by no means general. It might not be well to press to a division the question, whether the 14th of March would be a sufficiently distant date; it could not yet be ascertained whether it would suffice for the remote parts of the Kingdom. The sugar refiners had no right to expect a change before the 5th of July.
 Mr. Milner Gibson  thought a very strong case for postponement of the consideration of these duties had been made on both sides of the House. His right hon. Friend who preceded him wished that time should be given to traders to get rid of their stock of sugars, and the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government wished to get time for reconsidering his measures. It was plain, therefore, that a postponement of the question should take place, and the House could not advance until they saw which way they would have to go. It appeared to some individuals well acquainted with the subject, that the
 247 ad valorem
 Mr. Thornely  hoped that the House of Commons would never consent to a permanent scale of duties until there was perfect equality, and all protection had been got rid of. He was surprised that his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose should set aside the interests of the consumer. They talked of West Indian and East Indian interest, but he called upon them to look to the interest of the people at large. His chief object, however, in rising was to urge on the Chancellor of the Exchequer the propriety of reducing the proposed amount of duty on candy from Foreign countries. It was probable that no sugar could be obtained from China, but they could procure large quantities of candy, and he need hardly impress upon the right hon. Gentleman the desirableness of increasing as much as possible the number of articles to be imported into this country from China.
 Mr. Thornely  said if it were possible to
 241 ad valorem d. d.
 Mr. Thornely  said, it was generally understood that he alteration would not
 240 l.
 Mr. W. Williams  could not conceive how the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer could justify the serious loss which his measure, in its present form, would entail upon the holders of sugar. He thought there should be some extension of the time at which the measure was to come
 257
 Mr. Hogg  did not intend to take any part in the present discussion until he heard what the proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer exactly was. It appeared to him, however, that this proposed standard for the arrangement of the new scale of duties was an impracticable scheme; nor should he be perfectly satisfied until he heard what the proposition of the Government in all its details would exactly be.
 Sir J. R. Reid  observed, that this was certainly the most sensible speech that he had ever heard from the hon. Member, and he was gratified that anything that had fallen from him had been the means of eliciting it.
 Sir J. R. Reid  would take that opportunity of thanking; the Government, on the part of the West Indian interest, for this measure. He was glad to find that the discussion of the evening had been carried on in such a spirit of fairness. All that the West Indies asked, after the long period of depression under which they had laboured, was fair play: and if they had this, and had facilities afforded for obtaining labour, they would produce sugar abundantly sufficient. There was one point which he was particularly anxious to press upon the Government; namely, that it was most desirable that the duties should be as nearly as possible permanent. At any rate they should be of such a character as to lead to the inference that there would be no alteration in them for some time; for one of the great grounds of complaint with the West Indian body was the
 254
 Sir Robert Peel  begged to remind the House and the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken of the terms on which the postponement had been asked for. He had already stated that he would not require the House to go suddenly into Committee on the Bill. On Mr. Greene's taking the chair, be (Sir Robert Feel) would announce his intentions on the matter to the House, and then give two days' notice of the discussion, so that all parties could be prepared fully to enter into it.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, if the hon. Gentleman had applied to any person having
 252
 Sir R. Peel  said, that when delay was asked in this matter it was not for the purpose of getting information to support the proposal of Government, but for the purpose of fair consideration; and if they found that proposal could not be carried into practice the fact should be fairly avowed. Government had asked the opinion of brokers on Saturday morning, and made other inquiries, and were not in a condition that night to pronounce a positive opinion; but at the same time hon. Members would see the great importance of passing the Sugar Duties before Easter. He did not wish to bind the House by passing the Resolution; nor would it be taken by surprise by his reserving the declaration of the opinion of Government till the House should be in Committee on the Bill, because a few days' notice of their intention should be given. As for drawing a distinction between the small retail dealer and the wholesale, he (Sir R. Peel) thought it could not be well done; nor, in fact, did he see any ground for it. It was very well to say that the retail dealer with his limited stock, would be able to get rid of it before the 14th of March, but that was not the fact; the consumers of sugar were, no doubt, hoarding whatever stock they had in hand, and their demand on the retail dealer would be very limited. The substitutes in use for sugar would be extensively called for, but sugar itself would not be greatly in demand in the meantime; the retail dealer, therefore, would have the same difficulty in getting rid of his stock as the wholesale. Parties must be subjected to inconvenience, and it must be admitted that it bore hardly in many cases; but it was the general rule, and Parliament
 245
 Sir R. Peel  said, he hoped the hon. Gentleman would excuse him from giving any answer respecting the intentions of the Government. He always objected to answer any questions respecting the future exemption from duty of articles of trade, as those answers tended to produce great derangements of trade. With respect to the question with which the hon. Gentleman concluded, he had to state, that no negotiations were pending with Russia respecting the removal of the export duty on tallow in that country, on condition of the removal of the import duty here.
 Sir R. Peel  said, the hon. Member had correctly stated the nature of the Convention between Great Britain and the United Slates. It was passed in 1818, and was intended to last ten years, and it enabled each party jointly to occupy. It was renewed in 1827, was to expire in 1838, but it was provided also that neither party was to terminate the arrangement without giving a year's notice. With regard to the question with which the hon. Member had concluded, he had to remark that, as the negotiations of this country with the Executive Government of the United States had not yet been brought to a close, he did not think it consistent, with his duty to lay the correspondence before Parliament. The hon. Member would be aware that our negotiations were not with the House of Representatives, but with the Executive Government of the United States. Certainly nothing could be more unseemly than to bluster; but while he refrained from any expressions of the kind it was not to be supposed that the British Government was not duly sensible of the importance of the question.
 Sir R. Peel  admitted the importance of the question, but did not think it could be satisfactorily discussed in answer to a question. It might be recollected that there had been in existence at the same time both a window duty and a house duty. The House had the option of determining which of these duties should cease; and, at the time, it proposed taking off the house duty, because it thought the window duty was the fairer of the two.
 Sir W. Clay  thought a short extension of time might be given. As to the other point, if the whole question was to be regarded as under the consideration of Government, the House might properly leave it as was proposed; but Government would certainly find their proposed distinction impracticable. In America there was a classification, and the words of that tariff were,—"Brown sugar, the duty on importation of which is three cents per pound, is to include all Muscovado, all Havannah brown, all but the best white Brazil, all Calcutta sugar, all sugar from Canton, Siam, and Penang." The classification there bad almost become a dead letter, inasmuch as scarcely any sugar was excluded by the description of that which was admissible at the lower rate of duty.
 Viscount Sandon  expressed a hope that the House would be cautious in coming to any decision which might place the West India interests in a disadvantageous position. Any relief which would be merely advantageous to labour would be unjust towards the West India interests, in consequence of the great scarcity of labour in that quarter; and he trusted, therefore, that the House and the Government would not lose sight of that circumstance in any decision to which they might come. He also hoped that they would not forget the charge which formed so favourite a topic with the speakers at popular assemblies, that the Parliament were in the habit of unjustly taxing articles which were consumed exclusively by the poor. For instance, it was alleged that a duty of 200 per cent, was placed upon the inferior qualities of teas, while the duty on teas consumed by the wealthy was but 50 per cent.; and he hoped these complaints would not receive a new stimulus by the House giving unfair advantages to the finer and more expensive qualities of sugar.
 Viscount Sandon  perfectly agreed with the Chancellor of the Exchequer that the wholesale grocers who had left their sugars in the Queen's warehouses were not more entitled to back duties than those who had them on their own premises; it was a mere accidental circumstance. But he thought that all the wholesale dealers who had paid duty had a claim on the consideration of Government. The prolongation of the time would, probably, be sufficient to enable the retail grocers to get rid of their stock—their customers must have sugar from day to day: but with the wholesale traders the consumption would be at a stand-still, for the retail grocers would not come to them except for trifling supplies, to last till the alteration of duties. The wholesale grocers, therefore, would gain nothing, or the merest trifle, by the postponement. They certainly had reason to expect the Sugar Duties would be dealt with in the course of this year, and very probably a large reduction made; but not so early in the year. It was a very great advantage to the country, that the financial scheme of the Session had been brought forward so early; but the country ought to be prepared to pay the price, in the shape of a sacrifice of some little revenue. It was well worth it for the sake of trade generally. An advantage would otherwise be gained in a way which he thought hardly fair, at the expense of private interests.
 Mr. Tatton Egerton  had sat on railway committees for several years, and he was convinced that the clause would be unnecessary, if the engineers were required to state before the Committee precisely what land they would require for the objects of their line—cuttings, the deposit of spoil, the raising of materials, or whether for the formation of temporary roads. But the statements of these Gentlemen before the committees were always of the most vague and unsatisfactory nature, so that no person along the whole line could ever tell to what extent his land might be damaged. He would move the omission of the clause.
 Mr. Gladstone  was for making the best arrangement possible; and he thought there was some reason in the suggestion of the hon. Member for Sussex, to the effect that these powers should only be given in cases where they might be necessary to make use of them. In the case of brickwork also, it was impossible for any engineer to foresee how many bricks would be required, and therefore, in his opinion, the power of deviation ought to be given. If this clause were to be expunged the effect would be that the small proprietor would be disregarded, and the wealthy classes alone would be cared for.
 Mr. Tatton Egerton  had served last year on a Railway Committee of five Members which had to decide on the claims of two lines of railway, Both companies set up such a strong case on the ground of traffic alone, that if the case stopped there, the Committee would have been perfectly prepared to recommend either one or the other of them to Parliament. But, in the meantime, owing probably to some owners of property whose interests were likely to be affected by the proposed line, a third Railway Company started into existence, and proved by satisfactory evidence that on the ground of a deficiency of traffic neither of the other speculations should be encouraged. The result was that the whole three speculations fell to the ground. He mentioned this to show the position those Committees would be placed in, if the House excluded local Members from them. He was not at all anxious that local Members should have votes, but he thought they should be present at the deliberations of those Committees. He thought the exclusion from the Committees of Members having local knowledge would in some cases cause the infliction of great hardship on small landowners. He knew a case where a party would have been completely sacrificed if it had not been for the local knowledge of a Member of the Committee. He had no objection whatever to a Committee of five having the power to decide as to which line should be recommended to Parliament; but, at the same time, he thought local Members should have an opportunity of attending those Committees, either for the purpose of cross-examining witnesses, or for affording the Committee the best information in their power.
 Mr. Bernal  said, the question was one worthy of grave consideration. He could imagine many cases in which it would be very difficult for Members to understand on what occasions their constituencies had local interests in particular railways or not; and he was sure many Gentlemen who then heard him, could bring instances to their recollection in which that difficulty had presented itself strongly before them.
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  said, if the principle which was contended for by some hon. Gentlemen were adopted, some hon. Members—such, for instance, as the Representatives of the City of London—would enjoy a perpetual exemption from serving on any Railway Committee whatever, as there was not a railway in the Empire in which some of their constituents were not concerned. The same might be said of the Members for Manchester and for Liverpool. He would not enter into the general question on that occasion: but he could not avoid saying that he had great doubts of the ultimate success of the experiments then in progress. Still, as he was not prepared with any better plan which he might suggest to the House, he would not detain them by urging the difficulties and objections which suggested themselves to his mind.
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  observed, that a discussion on this subject could not lead to any immediate practical object, for most of the results of the investigations of the Railway Committee of the Board of Trade had been presented. He, therefore, recommended the hon. Member for Notingham to pospone until towards the end of the Session any discussion on the constitution of the Board, as it could not lead to any immediate practical result in the Railroad Bills before the House. They had not all the matter before them to enable them to form a judgment until they saw what practical result the Reports of the Board had upon the decisions of the several Committees. He believed that the hon. Member would advance towards the attainment of the object he had in view by deferring to a future period the debate on the subject. He was quite of the hon. Member's opinion that it was a matter well deserving the consideration of the House; and whenever he brought it under discussion, he should be prepared to state his opinion.
 Mr. Bernal  observed, that this was the first time that an important principle had been proposed to be brought into operation, namely, the compulsory attendance of Members on Committees. The only occasion when such attendance was necessary now was by express provision of Act of Parliament, and he did not know whether they intended to introduce a similar course with regard to other Committees that were now in force with respect to Election Committees. The House should recollect that in no case hitherto had a compulsory attendance on private business before a Committee been enforced. They could not compel any Member to attend before a Committee on a Bill for a canal, a road, or a dock, and he thought it was imposing a great hardship on Members of that House to enforce attendance on this new description of private business. He did not know what kind of tribunal to propose as a substitute for a Committee to decide upon the merits of Railroad Bills; but hon. Gentlemen must be aware of the difficulties which surrounded questions of this kind. It appeared that no Member appointed on a Committee should be allowed to absent himself from attendance on it unless in consequence of illness, or by especial leave of the House. By and by they would have numbers of Members, or their friends for them, starting
 290 291
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  said, it had been stated that the course proposed by this Resolution, peremptorily requiring the attendance of Members upon these Committees, was analogous to that adopted in the case of Election Committees; but in his opinion this regulation was more strict and peremptory than that which existed with respect to Election Committees and selected Members. The Election Committees were appointed under the compulsion of an Act of Parliament; but the regulations which accompanied that Act, at least gave Members a little notice of the call likely to be made upon them. The Member's name was put upon a panel, and he knew that if he was not elected at a certain time, a definite period must elapse before his turn came round again. Then, with regard to selected Members: a Member received an application, inquiring at what time he could most conveniently attend to private business; and, on receiving his reply, the Committee of Selection placed his name on the list. Now, he did not see why a similar course should not be pursued with respect to Committees appointed for railway business. He believed that, if it were considered necessary by the House that Members should be called upon in turn to undergo the labour of sitting upon such Committees, a sufficient number of Members would be found who would willingly and diligently discharge the duty; but at the same time he thought the convenience of Members should be consulted, so far as could be done without detriment to public interests. He would like to know whether it was intended that the Committee of Selection should call peremptorily, and without notice, upon any Member. [An hon.  Member:
 Sir W. James  thought there would be some practical difficulties in carrying out these Resolutions. Supposing that, at the expiration of the fourteen days' notice, all the five Members made excuses which were admitted; was a further notice of fourteen days to be given to other Members before the Committee could be formed? If that were the case, great inconvenience and expense would be entailed on the parties applying for Bills. He feared, also, that if the 250 hon. Gentlemen who had been described as absenting themselves from the Committees altogether were not required to attend, the really good working men, who gave their attendance willingly, might be worked to death. It was, however, far from his intention to oppose these Resolutions, which were, he thought, very creditable to the Gentlemen by whom they had been prepared.
 Mr. Miles  agreed with the hon. Member for Montrose, and he congratulated the noble Lord and the Committee on their having now brought the railway business of the country into something like a real practical shape. At the same time he saw the force of what had fallen from the hon Member for Dorset, and he trusted the noble Lord would give due weight to his suggestions. In cases where conflicting evidence was given by competing parties, he would suggest that the chairman should have power to call for the evidence of persons who were locally connected with the district, but unconnected with the railway projects, and take from them such evidence as they could rely upon. This of course must be done at the expense of the House and not of the parties; but he thought the evidence so obtained was likely to be of great importance. With regard to the numbers on a Committee, he thought the smaller the numbers were, the greater would be their responsibility, and the better effect would their decisions have upon the country. He had sat upon one or two Committees in competing railways, and he would state that in every one they had agreed unanimously to the Report laid before the House, and he had learned they were looked upon as fair and honest decisions.
 Sir W. James  said, supposing a petition was presented, and some party failed to substantiate it, and an hon. Member was to go to the Chairman of the Committee, and state that he wished to appear before that Committee and give some information which he deemed of importance, would it not be a hard case to parties interested in the particular line of railway under consideration if, from some neglect or from some technicality, the hon. Member was prevented from coming forward and giving the evidence? He quite concurred, however, in the recommendation of a Committee, that no Member having a local interest in any railway project should act on the Committee to which such project was referred. The attendance on Committees of Members so situated had been productive of strife.
 Mr. Bernal  said, that by a Standing Order of the House, it was provided, that no petition on a Private Bill should be presented less than three clear days before the nomination of the Committee, otherwise the parties could not be heard. In his opinion, the whole question respecting the
 307
 Mr. Cowper  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to promote the letting of field-gardens to the labouring poor. Their condition had occupied much attention out of doors; and he trusted he was not wasting the time of the House in drawing its attention to this method of improving the material and moral well-being of the working classes. Though limited in comparison with other schemes, it had the advantage of being easy of attainment, not opposed to private interests, and proved by experience to be certain of success. Some, whose opinions he respected, despaired of seeing the object of which they admitted the importance satisfactorily dealt with by legislative enactment; and some despaired relieving in any way, by direct interference, the privations and sufferings of the poorer classes. That opinion might possibly turn out to be well founded; but he hoped those who were disposed to entertain it would not hastily enunciate it. Of the hundreds and thousands of the labouring classes who were dissatisfied with their condition, many were looking to that House for relief, not so much from any expectations that had been held out to them, but because there was no other greater to look to; and he should be sorry if they were obliged to say to these expectants, "All the wisdom collected within these walls—all the experience—all the sympathy is unavailing to devise any measure to alleviate your distresses or to better your condition." Inferences might be drawn in disparagement of the earnestness and capacity of its Members to legislate for the wants of the industrial classes. He would confine himself to one point—the connexion of the working classes with the land. Such connexion formed an important ingredient in the condition of the working classes. It appeared from history that, before the land of England was brought fully into cultivation, almost all cottagers had land for tillage. All those above the condition of serfs had land in their own occupation; and, in addition to that, had common right over the waste tracts. He did not know exactly when
 309 "ere England's griefs began, When every rood of ground maintained its man;" 310 311 312 313 314 315 316
 Mr. Fox Maule  said, this was certainly a very important point; but he perceived by the preceding clause that a power was given to gas and water companies to take actions against railway companies, in the event of the latter causing damage to the works of the former. Now, he would wish to know if tradesmen and manufacturers had any easy mode of getting compensation for the deprivation of gas or water for a day?
 Lord G. Somerset  said, there was a clause in the Bill giving compensation to such persons for any damage unfairly occasioned. But it should be remembered that neither gas companies, nor water companies, nor extensive manufacturers, were generally so impoverished as not to be able to sustain an action in a court of law in such cases.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that after a good deal of consideration he had come to the determination to leave out from the words "such hinds" to the end of the clause, if the House would permit him. The clause, as it would then stand, would give everything to which either the company or the parties with whom they had to deal, might feel necessary for the preservation of their respective rights. The power of deviation would be sufficient for the purposes of any company, and if there were any peculiar circumstances which would affect the proceedings of any parties in a particular case, they could easily be provided for by the Private Bill for the institution and government of the company. On these accounts, and especially as the clause would then be sufficient to answer the purposes of a Consolidation Bill, he thought it better to yield to the opposition offered to the clause, and strike out all the words from "such land" to the end of the clause.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that the observations of the hon. Member for Wells (Mr. Hayter) with respect to the power, were perfectly correct. But the feelings of opposition to this clause on both sides of the House were very strong; and although he believed that it was very desirable to introduce the power into this Bill, yet there were difficulties about it—which perhaps might be obviated quite as well in the Committees on Private Bills. In many Railway Bills there would be very peculiar circumstances to be considered which would greatly affect the operation of this clause, and on this account he thought it would be better to strike them out.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, with reference to what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman near him (Mr. S. Wortley), he considered that the notice of fourteen days which was proposed would prevent Members from suffering any great inconvenience. It was provided, also, that the Committee of Selection might excuse hon. Members from attending, if satisfactory grounds for their absence were assigned. He could assure the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Hawes) that the Committee had fully considered the convenience and the inconvenience which would result from enforcing a more strict attendance on Committees. Their object was, to secure more punctual and regular attendance from a large portion of the Members of that House. They had selected three Members, instead of five, as a quorum, because they thought it advisable not to adopt too stringent a regulation; for, if five were a quorum, there would be a risk that the Committee might frequently meet without that number being present. He hoped, however, under these regulations, and by not allowing frivolous excuses for absence, future inconvenience with regard to those Committees would be avoided.
 Lord Granville Somerset  did not think that any Railway Bill would go into Committee before Easter. Some bills had been introduced, while others had not yet been brought forward, and therefore it would be necessary to wait, that the peculiar advantages of the different lines might be compared. As to the question which had been put to him, he was under an engagement to the hon. Member to afford a full opportunity of discussing the constitution of the Railway Department of the Board of Trade with as little delay as possible.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, it would not be the duty of the General Committee to put any Member upon a Railway Committee who they might conceive would be influenced in any way by the result; but, in addition to the precautions of the Committee, it would, he thought, be advisable to have the declaration signed as recommended by the Resolution. Besides, the House should bear in mind that the principle was one which had been in operation for several years.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that he would consider the proposition of the hon. Member for Sussex (Mr. Darby), and he would move that the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again on Thursday. In the meantime, he would take an opportunity of communicating with his hon. Friend, and try if they could not frame a clause which should obviate the difficulty which was felt on all sides of the House to the clause as it now stood.
 Lord G. Somerset  rose for the purpose of bringing under the consideration of the House the First Report from the Committee on Railway Bills. The Committee had been appointed to consider the most expedient mode of conducting the examination into the enormous number of railway projects submitted to the House; it had in consequence prepared a variety of Resolutions which he apprehended were framed in such a manner as to afford to the House nearly all the explanation of which it would stand in need. The Committee had confined themselves to the question of the Bills likely to be brought before Parliament, and for this purpose they had called before them Mr. Laing, of the Board of Trade, who stated, that no fewer than 248 projects had been submitted to it. It appeared that the Committee of the Board of Trade had divided the bills into what they called groups or families, as a great many must be considered together and in connexion. The first point the Select Committee of this House had decided was, that a Committee ought to
 272 
 1. "That a Committee of Five Members be appointed, to be called The Classification
 273 2. "That Copies of all Railway Bills presented to the House, and a list of all projected Railways, of which Plans and Sections have been deposited in the Private Bill Office, be laid before the said Committee, together with all Reports and Minutes of the Board of Trade upon such projected Railways, which shall have been laid, or which shall from time to time be laid, before the House. 3. "That the Committee of Classification shall form into groups all Railway Bills or projects which, in their opinion, it would be expedient to submit to the same Committee. 4. "That Committees on Railway Bills during the present Session of Parliament shall be composed of a Chairman and Four Members, to be appointed by the Committee of Selection. 5. "That each Member of a Committee on a Railway Bill or Bills shall, before he be entitled to attend and vote on such Committee, sign a Declaration that his Constituents have no local interest, and that he himself has no personal interest, for or against any Bill or project referred to him; and no such Committee shall proceed to business until the whole of the Members thereof shall have signed such Declaration. 6. "That the Promoters of a Railway Bill shall be prepared to go into the Committee on the Bill on such day as the Committee of Selection shall, subject to the Order that there be seven clear days between the Second Reading of every Private Bill and the sitting of the Committee thereupon, think proper to appoint, provided that the Classification Committee shall have reported on such Bill. 7. "That the Committee of Selection shall not appoint an earlier day for the first meeting of the Committee on any group of Bills than the twenty-sixth day after the presentation to the House of the Reports of the Board of Trade on all Railway projects included in such group, unless all the Petitions for Bills relating to such projects shall have been sooner presented. 8. "That the Committee of Selection shall give each Member not less than fourteen days' notice of the week in which it will be necessary for him to be in attendance, for the purpose of serving, if required, on a Railway Bill Committee. 9. "That the Committee of Selection shall give each Member a sufficient notice of his appointment as a Member of a Committee on a Railway Bill, and shall transmit to him a copy of the Fifth Resolution, and a blank form of the Declaration therein required, with a request that he will forthwith return it to them properly filled up and signed. 10. "That if the Committee of Selection shall not within due time receive from each such Member the aforesaid Declaration, or an
 274 11. "That the Committee of Selection shall have the power of substituting, at any time before the first meeting of a Committee, another Member for a Member whom they shall deem it proper to excuse from serving on that Committee. 12. "That power be given to the Committee of Selection to send for persons, papers, and records, in the execution of the duties imposed on them by the foregoing Resolutions. 13. "That no Member of a Committee shall absent himself from his duties on such Committee, unless in the case of sickness, or by leave of the House. 14. "That, if the Chairman shall be absent from the Committee, the Member next in rotation on the List (who shall be present) shall act as Chairman. 15. "That Committees shall be allowed to proceed so long as Three Members shall be present, but not with a less number, unless by special leave of the House. 16. "That if on any day within one hour after the time appointed for the meeting of a Committee Three Members shall not be present, the Committee shall be adjourned to the same hour on the next day on which the House shall sit, which had been fixed for that day. 17. "That in the case of a Member not being present within one hour after the time appointed for the meeting of the Committee, or of any Member absenting himself from his duties on such Committee, such Member shall be reported to the House at its next sitting. 18. "That each Committee shall be appointed to meet on each day of its sitting, not later than Twelve o'clock, unless by the regular vote of the Committee. 19. "That parties promoting Railway projects which have been grouped together by the Classification Committee, shall be permitted to appear before the Committee on a Railway Bill belonging to such group, and to offer evidence either against the Bill immediately under the consideration of the Committee, or in support of their own projects. 20. "That in Committees on a Bill or Bills, when such evidence has been given, it shall be within the competency of a Committee to adjourn their proceedings until the Bill or Bills for such other projects shall be before them, care being taken by the Committee of Selection that in all such cases the Bills for the so opposing projects shall be referred to the Committee by which the first Bill or Bills had been considered. 21. "That, as soon as the Committee of Classification shall have determined what Railway Bills or projects are to be grouped together, they shall report the same to the House; and all Petitions against any of the said Bills or projects shall be presented to the
 275 22. "That the Committee on a group of Railway Bills or projects shall hear, so far as may be necessary, parties appearing in support of such Petitions, so as to receive without interruption the whole of the evidence on the general merits of all the Bills or projects before them, and also on the details of the Bill or project, or Bills or projects, which they shall be of opinion ought to be adopted, in order that if the Committee should consider that a Bill or Bills not yet read a second time at the time of the inquiry ought to be preferred, they may be enabled, when that Bill or Bills shall be formally committed, to dispense with receiving any further evidence, and to confine their proceedings to making such Amendments in the Clauses as their previous investigation may have shown to be necessary."
 Lord G. Somerset  said, there were subsequent clauses in the Bill, by which a Summary mode of recovery was provided for all injuries sustained under the value of 20 l.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that he should propose that the first blank in the clause, limiting the distance at which the company could interfere with private roads, should be filled up with 500 yards instead of 1,000, and the second blank with 200 yards instead of 250, This was an important alteration. As to the remuneration for damage done, he should propose some alterations on that head in the 29th Clause. With regard to the present clause, he could not see that any alteration could be made beyond that which he had just mentioned.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that his attention had not been drawn to the former, but to the latter part of the clause. By the Amendment which he intended to propose to the 29th Clause, he had provided all the compensation for private rights which money could give.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, his decided impression was that, with regard to private interests, parties presenting a petition three clear days before the nomination of the Committee, had a right to be heard as witnesses. The question was, whether the Committee had the power of calling such additional evidence before them as they thought would give the most satisfactory information. He had no doubt of the power on that point; and he had the strongest conviction on his mind, that Committees under these circumstances have a distinct right to examine any person whom, in the exercise of their judgment, they should deem capable of furnishing them with such information, whether on the part of the parties to the Bill before them, or on that of those who were in opposition to it. On the other hand, however, he did not think that a Committee had the power of compelling the attendance of such evidence; and that, if they desired it, they should be obliged to come to that House for power for the purpose. In
 308
 Lord John Manners  perfectly agreed with the hon. Member that if they would give to the poor man a cottage and garden, it would be doing better for him than that which was proposed by the present Bill. The case, however, in which this Bill would apply was where there was not a resident landlord: for instance, he might refer to the frame-work knitters in the midland parts of England; these could not get gardens under the present circumstances, whereas if the House passed this Bill, he had not the slightest doubt, from his knowledge of the class to whom he referred, that they would be greatly benefited by it. He could not avoid saying that the feelings and opinions of the people themselves ought to be respected on this question. Now, the feelings of the people, he was aware, had been strongly excited with regard to it. They were perfectly unanimous on the subject; and it was to be hoped that the House would pass a measure which would facilitate the poor obtaining land—that was, by the means proposed by his hon. Friend. Where the benefits were so great as they were expected to be from such a measure, he called upon the House to do its duty in passing it; and this he would say, that he was sure the overworked and underpaid artisans and mechanics of this country would ever feel grateful to them for such a proof of their sympathy.
 Lord J. Manners  wished to know what penalty would be inflicted upon those hon. Members who did not attend Committees to which they were appointed? It seemed to him that the mere fact of these Committees
 300
 Lord J. Manners  said, the Standing Order applied only to petitions against Railway Bills; but the question really before the House was as to Members of Parliament desiring to give evidence before a Committee. He did not think that their claim was concluded by the Order of that House, but, as the right hon. Baronet had justly said, it was to be decided by the judgment of the Chairman and the Members of the Committee. There was, however, this great difficulty in the latitude allowed by the right hon. Baronet—one Committee might decide one way, and another the other. Thus there would be a diversity of action on these bodies in that respect, and a total absence of all uniformity in practice. That was a thing to be deprecated; for there would be no such respect for these decisions when there was no uniformity in their practice. The House should, therefore, decide the question in one way or the other.
 Mr. Hawes  agreed entirely with all that had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, and from his hon. Friend the Member for Kendal. He, therefore, would not repeat the arguments which they had urged. He rose for the purpose of suggesting to his hon. Friend the Member for Weymouth, that the several Committees for Railways were not to be constituted like Election Committees. On Election Committees it was absolutely necessary that every Member
 295
 Mr. Hawes  said, it was very important that the House should come, as far as possible, to an unanimous resolution on the question before them. In subscribing to a declaration to which he was required to assent, he could not pretend to say whether some individual among his constituents might not have an interest in the question. That was a matter on which he could not have on all occasions any certain knowledge; but he could sign the declaration as to whether the constituent body which he represented had generally any local interest in the subject to be decided upon. He considered it most important that there should be no doubt on the subject of that regulation, but that they should be as unanimous as possible in coming to an explicit understanding
 283
 Mr. Hawes  hoped that his hon. Friend would raise the whole question at an early period, as the Railway Department of the Board of Trade had very great powers, and to it was entrusted the authority of deciding respecting great masses of property. He did not think that the Board was altogether constituted in a satisfactory manner, or was of such a character as to fully deserve public confidence. At present, according to appearance, those who were ostensibly at the head of the Board did not possess more authority than the other Members of it, and who were not so well known to the public. Might it not happen that the President and Vice-President of the Board of Trade should vote on one side on a Railway Bill, and the subordinate members might take the opposite side, and thus the opinion of the
 286
 Mr. Hawes  concurred with the hon. Member for Birmingham, but he presumed that he only wanted to guard against a railway company doing anything of the sort wantonly or unnecessarily.
 Mr. Hawes  defended the clause. It provided ample compensation to the landowner, to whom it also gave the option of compelling the railway company to purchase his land out and out. He could not see what good would result by expunging this clause; for when a company went before a Private Committee it would cirtainly obtain (if this limitation clause were not inserted) as much land on both sides of the railway as they could prove to be necessary for the purposes enumerated in this clause. He could not conceive that they could adopt any clause better calculated to afford ample security to the landowner.
 Mr. B. Escott  said, that the hon. Gentleman who moved for leave to bring in the Bill had told the House that there was nothing compulsory in it. At the present moment he was not aware how the Bill would interfere with advantage on behalf of allotments, unless there was something of a compulsory character in the Bill, because at the present moment every landowner had the free power to grant allotments to whomsoever he chose. He did not see how that was to be altered with advantage to the labourer, without the introduction of something in the nature of compulsion into the Bill. So far as the allotment system had hitherto been beneficial—and he could not say that it had been universally beneficial—but so far as it had been
 317
 Mr. B. Escott  concurred in the suggestion of the hon. Member for Montrose, that some means for limiting the expense of such Bills should be devised, and put in practice.
 Colonel Sibthorp  fully concurred in what had fallen from the hon. Member who had just sat down. The injuries done by the engineers of railway companies to the property of private individuals was most unjust, and called loudly for a remedy. Not content with making encroachments in the day-time, these marauders of engineers took advantage of the darkness to commit those trespasses which their modesty would not suffer them to do at another period. Only a short time back an hon. Friend of his rose one morning and found a flag stuck up before his door. And were such depredations as this to be tolerated? Whenever a gentleman met a stranger upon his lands he would certainly turn out to be the engineer of some railway company or other. They had nothing to do but to ask, "Who are you?" then the party replied, "I am the engineer of such and such a railway, and am acting under the law." But if he were the owner of the land, he would take care that the fellow should be promptly conveyed before a neighbouring magistrate. The hon. Gentleman had very properly asked, "Where or how are you to get compensation?" "Go to law" was the reply. Go to law, indeed! How was a poor farmer to contend against an irresponsible body! Well, then, if they conferred such enormous powers upon a railway company, why should they not compel them to afford full and ample compensation for the injury they did to the rights of private property.
 Colonel Sibthorp  could not see why this compulsory system should be adopted with regard to Railway Bills only, and why it should not be applied to Committees sitting
 298
 Mr. C. Wood , in his experience of Railway Committees, had seen great benefit arise from the presence of local Members. In the case of a long line running from London to York it might be difficult to introduce into a Committee a sufficient number of Members who were acquainted with the whole extent of the line; but that would not be the case in the generality of instances, it would not apply to shorter lines. He would propose to take six Members from the Speaker's list of the counties through which a proposed line of railway might pass, and then the
 279
 Mr. Cardwell  said, the Government were
 321
 Mr. Horsman  said, that as far as he was able to judge from the opinions of those who were best able to form sound and impartial opinions on this subject, it appeared that the proceedings of the Board had generally given satisfaction. As for the general question of any change in the constitution of the Board, it would be sufficient time to consider that when the general subject came under discussion. His hon. Friend had said that the questions before the Board were decided by the majority of votes; but of this there might be some doubt, in consequence of the question put by the hon. Baronet not having been answered. He was extremely anxious, as a Member of the Committee which recommended the construction of a Board of this kind, that it should work well; and he was sorry to hear prejudices raised against the Reports emanating from it, and he believed many of them to be unjust and without foundation. Doubts might arise in some quarters, because names of persons were signed to the Report who were not so publicly known as
 289
 Mr. Protheroe  recommended that if any hon. Members were appointed upon a Select Committee, they should be required to attend on that Committee, and on that Committee alone.
 Mr. Shaw  said, he had once sat as chairman in the case of two competing lines, and it was stated to him that a Member was present who wished to give evidence in the case. He, as chairman, immediately had him called as a witness, and he gave very important evidence, to which no objection was made by either party. If a Member of Parliament wished to be examined before a Committee, he apprehended there could be no difficulty in having him examined.
 Mr. Shaw  said, he had the honour of serving as Chairman of a Select Committee last year, and felt, on one occasion, the
 278
 Mr. G. Bankes  was decidedly in favour of having hon. Members with local knowledge giving the advantage of that local knowlege to the Committee. Even if Members had not the local imformation that might be required by the Committee, they would be capable of producing witnesses who could give the information that might be required. If the House passed the Resolution in its present shape, it would give rise to endless cavil. It was essential that in deciding between competing lines they should be able to select the best. Under the impressions which he entertained he could not consent to the Resolution now before the House.
 Mr. G. Bankes  said, he wished to make a few observations upon this Resolution, and those which followed, with reference
 301 pari passu 302
 Mr. Darby  said, the case was this. One local Member of a place might be present all through the proceedings, and cognisant of the whole, while the other was not. It was a great question, whether the advantages derivable from that circumstance should be done away with. He believed, that five Members on a Committee would be as good as ten; but he considered that it would be highly improper that one Member alone should be allowed to give his own account of the matter at issue.
 Mr. Darby  could understand the objections to compulsory attendance, if these were not Select Committees; but as they were Select Committees, he thought it right that Members should be compelled to attend. Some imputations had been thrown upon Committees of that House; but from seven years' experience he must say, that he believed those imputations were groundless and unjust. At one time, when Members who had sat upon Committees sent notes relative to the evidence to interested parties, such conduct might have disgraced the House; but he was convinced that the Committees by whom business was now conducted, were free from such imputations.
 299
 Mr. Darby  said, the hon. Member for Lambeth had entirely avoided the point he had raised. What he objected to was this, they gave indiscriminate powers to the engineer, who invariably omitted to mention the quantity of land he should require, and after the Bill was passed he turned round and said he wanted this and that land, which had never been thought of before, either by the Committee or the owner. Now, what he wanted them to do was, to let the engineer decide in the Committee the quantity of land he would require, and afterwards confine him to this quantity, without giving the unlimited powers contained in the clause they were then discussing.
 Mr. Darby  complained of the power given to engineers to go in upon land,
 270
 Mr. Aglionby  said, it seemed as if the clause was meant to give a bonus and advantage to laxity of engineering. It said if the line was properly laid down, it was well; but if it was carelessly laid down, it
 268
 Mr. Aglionby  said, the opinion of the hon. Baronet the Member for Leicester was entitled to great weight. In 1838 the present Speaker proposed a Resolution to the effect that, although upon certain Committees the presence of Members connected with local districts afforded much local information, yet it was more than counterbalanced by the local interest, in fluence, and prejudice necessarily attending their presence, especially as any information afforded by them would be of much more value if given by them in the character of witnesses. That being also his opinion, he should support the Resolutions of the Government. He did not think constituents ought to expect their Members to be the mere slaves of little pecuniary interests. For his part, he never could attach much weight to local information given by Members, who were tied and bound down to the interests of parties concerned. He thought the plan proposed by the Government would afford the greatest facility for the transaction of the business of the country, and would give the greatest satisfaction even to the projectors of competing lines, who did not respect the present tribunal.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  agreed with the hon. Member for Dorset that there was a difficulty regarding the attendance of Members possessed of local information. He took a different view of the question from the hon. Member for Somerset, who looked only to the question of two competing lines. He thought more danger was to be apprehended to individuals where there was only one line. He knew certain districts of country where railroads were taken in one direction rather than another because it suited the convenience of the engineer—the parties aggrieved were compelled to submit, because they had no means of bringing their case before the House. Where there were competing lines, a party aggrieved by one railway could throw himself into the arms of another, who would naturally adopt his case as against their rival line; but where there was only one he had no protection beyond that of bringing his case before the House. Now, if Members possessed of local information were allowed to appear before the Committee, he thought they might bring forward the case of such parties without trouble or expense to him; and if this were not attended to he thought a very grievous wrong would be left without a remedy.
 Mr. Warburton  must do the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir R. Peel) the justice of observing that he had ever been a maintainer of the privileges of that House. Now he did not think that these privileges could be maintained for any length of time if the House did not manifest to the public a determination to attend to its duty in this respect. Was his hon. Friend to say that that House was to abandon its duty, and to neglect a description of public business which was essential to the best interests of the country? What had his hon. Friend proposed, and what would be the result of adopting his suggestions? The House would find that if in one important department it chose to transfer its authority to another tribunal, and that it did not perform one of its most essential duties, the country would begin to consider whether other of its functions which it now performed might not be dispensed with. If they did not wish to lower the character of the House in the eyes of the country, they must attend to these matters, and, however inconvenient such attendance might be to Members individually, still, when they entered that House, they should be fully prepared to take upon themselves a due share in the discharge of the business of the country. He was sure, on reflection, his hon. Friend would be willing to take his share in attendance on the railway business. Surely his hon. Friend was aware of the immense mass of property invested in undertakings of this nature, and how much the public interest was concerned in legislating respecting them. The country would say, if they devoted their time merely to talking about party matters, that they were sent to meet there to attend to more important duties. Nothing could sink the House sooner in the public estimation than the notion of transferring the Legislature on such important
 292
 Mr. Curteis  had received a letter from one of his constituents complaining of the short time the Private Bill Office was open for the purpose of enabling parties to inspect the various plans, maps, and specifications of the several lines of railroad. This gentleman stated that this Office was only open two hours a day, and that a charge of 6 s.
 Mr. Roebuck  felt the force of the difficulties which existed to the adoption of the principle laid down in the Resolution; but still he could not withdraw his assent from the general plan. The hon. Member for Lambeth had told them that the words "local interests of constituents" could only be interpreted as meaning the interests
 284
 Mr. Roebuck  remarked that the Bill proposed a change in the whole system of the condition of the labouring classes, and it therefore demanded the attention, and the serious attention, of the Government. He culled upon the right hon. Gentleman opposite to look to the machinery that was to be introduced, and to consider that it was proposed to make applicable a certain portion of the poor-rates for the purpose of carrying the Bill into effect. He hoped that they would not go into a Committee on the Bill without having a distinct declaration from Her Majesty's Government as to whether the Bill met with their approbation, and how far it would square with their other legislation affecting the condition of a large portion of the population of this country.
 Mr. Hume  did not rise to trouble the House with many observations on the Bill. He thought, however, that it held out expectations which could not be realised. It was a doubt with him whether, if the allotment system were adopted in England, there would not be a state of things in this country, which, since he had had the honour of sitting in Parliament, had been considered as the cause of all the evils of Ireland—a multiplying of small allotments—bringing in poverty in their train, and increasing the evils under which the country was already suffering. Therefore it was that he expressed his fears that the temptation held out could not be realised. His opinion was, that where gentlemen were anxious to give allotments to their labourers, they could do it more effectually without an Act of Parliament than with it. He had a dread also of putting in the hands of parish authorities the right of raising money for the purpose of granting allotments.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had given notice of a Motion for a "return of the titles of all Private Bills passed during the last Session of Parliament, together with the names of Parliamentary agents and solicitors by whom such Bills were solicited and obtained; stating also the aggregate amount of their bills of charges, under the separate heads for soliciting and passing such Bills through Parliament; stating also how many of such Bills have been taxed, and by whom." His object was to direct the attention of the House to the subject, with a view to the adoption of some remedy for what was considered a great evil by all parties who had occasion to come to that House for Private Bills. He did not complain of the fees of the House, but of the exorbitant expenses of soliciting and agency, against which there was no check. In the hope that the Government would take up the matter, it was not his intention to press his Motion.
 Mr. Hume  said, in the year 1838 he had found it necessary to take the sense of the House on that question. He had been always of opinion that Members of Select Committees should, like jurymen, be always chosen from totally disinterested parties; and it was with that feeling that he had thought it necessary to bring the subject before the House in 1838. He might add, that everything that had taken place since then had tended to convince him of the justice and necessity of the arguments which he then put forth. As to the question of local interests, he considered that whenever a constituency asked their Representative to support a particular measure, that he was then
 282
 Mr. Hume : If a Member offered himself as a witness to any Committee, he (Mr. Hume) could only say that if he was Chairman of that Committee, or a Member of that Committee, he would insist on his being examined exactly as another witness would be. What difficulty could such a proceeding create? It could not take the Committee by surprise, but would give to the Members of the Committee a better opportunity than they might otherwise have of coming to a proper decision.
 Mr. Hume  replied, that the case to which the hon. Member alluded had been fully considered. The course now recommended had been adopted by the House of Lords with complete success. No hon. Members would be prevented from attending any Committee, but they would not be allowed to take part in the proceedings except as witnesses. He beseeched the House to try the same course which had been found so successful in the Lords.
 Mr. Hume  said, if the hon. Member for Evesham (Mr. Borthwick) had come to the House to-night for the first time, he should not have felt surprised at the observations he had just made. It was very well to talk of the anxiety of Members to do their duty, and of their Roman virtue; but he had frequently seen Committees unable to proceed with business because they could not obtain a quorum. Such was the dependence which might be placed on the anxiety of Members to discharge their duty! What was everybody's business was nobody's business; and even when Committees of that House had been open, it had been found difficult to obtain a quorum. On this account he had long endeavoured to induce the House to adopt some common-sense regulations on this subject. It was, he considered the duty of the House to take care that the business of the country should receive proper and efficient attention; and he thought that the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel), who was so strong a supporter of the privileges and institutions of the House, would support those privileges most effectually by making the House do its duty. It was a serious thing, when witnesses were brought from Yorkshire or Cumberland, or other distant parts of the country, to have them detained here, day after day, at an enormous expense, because the Committees did not proceed with business. He fully approved of the regulations now under consideration, and was satisfied that they would work well, and would tend to support the character of that House, which had been lowered in public estimation by the proceedings in Private Committees. He had heard charges preferred out of doors, and with great justice, too, not against individual Members, but against the system on which their proceedings were conducted. He did not attach blame to individuals, he objected to the system, which ought to undergo a thorough change. He held, that every Member of Parliament ought to take his turn in attending to Committee business; and if lawyers could not attend to the business of the House they had better not get into Parliament. He had been much gratified at the declaration of the right hon.
 297
 Mr. Borthwick  said, that the right hon. Baronet had shown, with his usual discrimination, that Members of Parliament in the case in question were not different; from other witnesses. He would put a case to the House: suppose, that a railway; were to pass through the market-place of Evesham, or even the church of that borough—were the Members for the town, or the other Members for the county of Worcester, to be precluded from coming forward and informing the Committee on subjects so nearly affecting their constituents? If the right hon. Member for the University of Dublin was in the chair of a Committee, when he or his Colleague tendered evidence under such circumstances, doubtless they would be heard; but suppose the chair was filled by some hon. Member who had not the Roman virtue of that right hon. Gentleman, what would become of Evesham church or Evesham market-place—and where would be the rights of the Worcestershire constituency? The whole principle of the Resolution ran counter to the constitution of Parliament, and also to the speeches of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government. The speeches of the right hon. Gentleman, and the Resolutions were at variance, and he (Mr. Borthwick) hoped the House would follow the speeches, and reject the Resolutions. He also hoped the House would free Committees from the shackles which were to be put on their hands by the Resolution. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Sussex had attempted to show the House that he was very young on the matter before them; but he would completely succeed in proving that fact, if he trusted the interests of his constituents to such a Resolution as that before the House.
 Mr. Borthwick  agreed with the right hon. Baronet; but he thought that when the right hon. Baronet expected this Roman virtue from hon. Members, they would respond more readily if he left them to do their duty of their own will, and not under restraints. Then they would be entitled to the praise which the right hon. Baronet offered them. He considered that it would be most injudicious, and injurious to the character of that House, to transfer their jurisdiction with regard to railways to any other tribunal. The Members of that House were the guardians of their own honour; and he was convinced there was not a Member who would not be prepared to submit his own rights and those of his
 296
 Mr. Milnes  thought it of consequence in all these important matters that the public should be satisfied that the tribunal was impartial. The object of the Government would be to select five Gentlemen who were quite ignorant of the matter which they would have to undertake, whilst on the other hand five Gentlemen might be selected who were most likely to have local prejudices; and he thought that, balancing all the difficulties, it would be best to pass the Resolutions which had been proposed by the Government.
 Mr. Spooner  would propose that, instead of 20 l. l.; l. 265 l.
 Mr. Spooner  said, he did not think the clause afforded sufficient protection to gas companies and water companies, or the consumers of gas and water. All the houses in a town, say Birmingham, were lighted with gas; and if a railway company in their operations should interrupt the supplying of gas or water for a day, see what a serious inconvenience it would be to a whole town. The clause gave 20 l. l.
 Mr. Spooner : The noble Lord had stated that the clause gave a remedy against all damages "unfairly" done. But he would ask how that could be said to be "unfairly" done which was done under the sanction of an Act of Parliament and the direction of an engineer? He knew an instance where a gentleman's park palings had been broken down by a railway company, and when he sought compensation for the injury, the answer he received was, that nothing had been done that was not necessary and unavoidable. And as to the gas and water companies not being impoverished, why that was very true; but what remedy were individuals of small means to have in case of such injuries?
 Mr. Christopher  wished to call attention to the 5th Resolution, the effect of which would be to exclude Members who had a local interest in railways from serving on Committees; and he thought it would be desirable to know whether the House would at once come to a decision that any Member whatever, whose constituents had an interest in railways which might happen to pass through any particular county or district, was, as a matter of course, to be excluded from serving on such Committee. He had read over the Resolution, and it did not appear, on the face of it, that such a Member would be necessarily excluded from serving on the Committee. But if it was the intention of the House that all Railway Bills were to be referred to a Committee to be nominated particularly by another Committee of classification, as it was called, he apprehended it was the object of the Committee to exclude all those Members who had a local, though not a private, interest in railways from serving on them. He believed that was the intention of the Resolution, and he hoped the House would pause before it gave its sanction to any such proceeding; for though he was free to confess, from his experience of Committees on Private Bills, that a great improvement had taken place within the last few years, namely, by the House being able to select a sufficient number of qualified Members, whose decision the House invariably affirmed, yet he thought it was necessary that some person acquainted with the locality which the Bill affected should be upon the Committee.
 276
 Mr. Mangles  observed that the hon. Member for Winchester had spoken in a deprecating tone of this measure, and had suggested whether the landlords could not do better for the poor, by supplying them with employment. He lived in a poor agricultural district, and could say that, except in the heat of the hay and corn harvest, the poor were out of employment often for many weeks together. How, then, were they to be benefited? During the recess he had paid a great deal of attention to the subject of allotments, and there were two important points connected with it, on which he had arrived at a positive conclusion. He had consulted a great many Gentlemen—and ladies too—amongst the rest Mrs. Davies Gilbert, and he could say, that there was no subject of equal magnitude on which he had found testimony so unanimous in its favour. He had never found one person who had tried it, find fault with it. Mrs. Davies Gilbert assured him it had never failed in a single instance under her management. He thought he was right in saying that that lady had informed him, that in 400 allotments, and for eleven years, not one holder had failed in paying his rent. That, then, was one important point as to the success of the measure. Another important point was this—that he never knew an intelligent labourer who was not favourable to it. In West Surrey, where there was a large number of gentlemen talking in the bank on this subject, and where he was defending the system almost alone against
 320 s. l.
 Mr. Gisborne  agreed with the statements and reasoning of the hon. Member; but unfortunately he could not give him his vote, as he agreed with the proposition of the noble Lord. He agreed with the noble Lord, that, in consenting to these arrangements, he would give up all the advantages of local knowledge. The evidence which would be brought before the Committee, under the present arrangement, would not furnish the best information on local subjects, for those who could give the best and truest information would be excluded. The parties giving evidence would endeavour to make that evidence tell favourably for those who brought them forward. It was an established and well-known fact, and one which hardly any body could account for, that wherever professional men, such as lawyers, doctors, or engineers were engaged, the most satisfactory evidence would be given by the most respectable witnesses in direct contradiction of each other. He had on one occasion felt his mind bewildered by the contradictory
 277
 Mr. Gisborne  said, he had strong objections to the 7th Resolution, and he had intended to found some general remarks upon it, on the Report of the Board of Trade. The noble Lord opposite (Lord G. Somerset) had, however, informed him in private, that it was likely that an opportunity would be given him of entering with more propriety upon the subject when the Railway Consolidation Clauses Bill was before the House, and he would not, therefore, enter at any length upon it on that occasion. He would wish to know from the noble Lord whether he was right in understanding that it was not intended to go into Committee on any Railway Bill until after Easter, and also that the Board of Trade would have presented all their Reports on Railways before Easter.
 Mr. Greene  could assure the noble Lord that unless some means of compelling the attendance of Members were resorted to, it would be impossible to carry out this plan efficiently. In the course of the last two years, no less than 250 Members of that House, who had nothing else to do, had positively refused to attend the Committees; and it was, therefore, absolutely necessary that some compulsion should be adopted. There were many hon. Members who had attended Committees most regularly; but were the 250 hon. Gentlemen to whom he had referred to be exempted from such attendance? The system proposed by these Resolutions would be utterly inefficient without the enforcement of compulsory attendance.
 Mr. Greene  said, that, considering the mass of business before the House, the attendance of local Members upon these Committees was impossible. With respect to the line between London and York, what chance was there that they could be able to select from the Speaker's list, Members to represent any part of that line? He thought that the House had acted wisely in endeavouring to reduce the number of Members in attendance on these Committees. It should be recollected that those Committees sat judicially and not representatively. He would support the Resolution.
 Mr. Entwisle  was desirous to raise the question of the exemption of Members who had interests in railways from serving on those Committees. Either they should be exempted, or if they were compelled to serve they should be allowed to do so without imputations. He had heard the hon. Member for Greenock put a question to the hon. Member for Reading whether he had or had not a personal interest in a Railway Bill (as we understood) for which he had voted? He had been present when
 281
 Mr. Ewart  said, it was perfectly compatible with the existing Resolutions of the House, that a Member should appear before the five selected Members to be heard as a witness upon any Railway Bill, and, therefore, any local Member could be present in that character.
 Mr. Hayter  said, that he did not object
 269
 Mr. Hayter  said, that he regretted the noble Lord had expressed a wish to leave out these words, for he believed that they were necessary, in order to define the limits of the deviation. If not forming part of this clause, they must be introduced into some other clause; and if not
 264
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  remarked, in answer to an observation made by the hon. Member for Montrose, that there was a great mistake as to the poverty of Ireland being connected with small holdings. The system in Ireland of letting land by "con-acre" was mixed up with the severe distress of the people. Under that system the poor were obliged to take small patches of land—half an acre, or less—for the purpose of planting their potatoes, and for which they had to pay at the rate of eight guineas the acre. That was not the universal rule, however, with respect to small holdings in Ireland. Where these were taken under proper regulations—where they were held under the head landlord, and under a reasonable rent—there was no part of Ireland in which the people lived in greater comfort. He would instance one estate as illustrative of this: it was that of such a
 318
 Mr. Stansfield  said, that it was too much to extend those powers to a distance of two thousand yards. He thought it ought to be limited to the distance in the deviation clauses.
 Sir G. Strickland  agreed that there was much to be complained of on this point, but there was great difficulty to be met with in trying to remedy the evil. He thought it would be well to have all remedies for such grievances put into one Consolidated Bill, in order that, when they did occur, parties might not be put to the trouble of trying to find out in what particular Bill the remedy lay. He had heard of an instance where an excavation had been made by a railway company, and they left a pond of water that they never filled up, so that the owners, instead of having the vacancy filled up, got a swamp instead of land. However, he feared that temporary occupation of the land in this way would always be necessary.
 Sir George Strickland  conceived that 20 l. l.
 Mr. Ward  said, the suggestion of the hon. Member for Somersetshire would only have the effect of making the inquiry almost interminable. What was the good of the Committee of the Board of Trade if
 303
 Sir J. Graham  observed, that when a Bill similar to this had been before the House he had then stated his opinion respecting it. As to the measure before them, he agreed with the opinions indicated by the hon. Members for Montrose and Bath, that one provision of it was very objectionable, namely, that which would make the poor-rates a security for the rent. He held that to be objectionable. He understood the hon. Member to state that it was to be only a permissive measure—amounting, as the hon. Member had termed it, to the hiring of land. He quite agreed with his noble Friend in thinking that if it were permissive for the landlord to give land with cottages, it would be preferable, subject, however, to the observation that he had made. He must say that he was anxious to see the Bill before them, for as far as he could then learn of its provisions, it appeared to him to be a decided improvement upon the Bill of last year. Last year it was proposed that an acre, of land
 319
 Sir John Easthope  said, that in a former Parliament he had the misfortune to sit on a Railway Committee (the Stone and Rugby) for sixty-two or sixty-three days. The right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir R. Peel) was also, like himself, a Member of that Committee, as a representative of local interests. All the selected Members were amongst the majority who carried the Bill through the Committee; but the representatives of local interests, of which he (Sir J. Easthope) was one, carried on the contest under the pressure of local influence, until it was too late in the Session for the Bill to pass. That was, on that occasion, the effect of having local Members on such Committees. They were obliged, under the pressure of interests which they could not resist, to stick to their posts for sixty-three days, and he believed they often voted against their consciences. He was more ashamed of the fact than he was of the avowal. He would rather resort to any expedient than sit on a Committee of that kind again; he had, in fact, made up his mind that anything less than the compulsion of the House should not induce him to sit again on such a Committee. As to the advantages which it had been said would arise from the presence of local Members on Railway Committees, he begged to ask
 280
 Mr. J. Jervis  thought that no objection could be fairly taken to the course suggested by his right hon. Friend. At present the practice in Committees was not to hear any person who had not presented a petition to that House. The subject was one on which doubt might be entertained, and he hoped therefore that it would be explained by the noble Lord. He considered the practice proposed preferable to that which now existed; but, at the same time, he was of opinion that the point in question required explanation.
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, I think it very important that we should come to a general understanding on the subject under discussion.
 305 Jervis: 306
 Sir R. Peel  believed that this was a matter which deeply concerned the dignity of the House, and its capacity of serving the country. The hon. Gentleman said that he was for transferring the legislating on what was called Private Business from that House, and to provide a substitute. He entertained great respect for the opinion of the hon. Member opposite, and confessed that he was surprised to hear such opinions as he had heard emanate from him. Would the hon. Gentleman say that by his suggesting a different mode of transacting private business than by Committees of that House, he would give to any other tribunal the power or the liberty of passing a Railway Bill? What would be the result of giving to any court of law or other tribunal the power of legislating on what was called the Private Business? It would not be a mere formal proceeding, but you would be creating a tribunal which would soon be arrogating to itself all the powers of legislation and all the privileges possessed by that House. And how would you constitute this tribunal? Was it to be representative? Was it to be elected by a constituency? How was that constituency to be formed? Was it to be a similar constituency to that returning the Members of that House? If the power of legislating on such subjects was transferred to such a tribunal, with any Judge that you pleased at its head, you would soon find that you had very little else to do than to register its decrees. If this House constituted a tribunal for the regulation of the internal commerce and all the communication throughout the country, it would create a power which would soon obtain greater credit than that possessed by the House itself, as the public would say that, as it could not perform this most important description of business, it was very unfit to have any further power left to it. The hon. Gentleman said, that many Members did not contemplate railway business when they were elected. This might be true; but it had come upon them, as other business had, in the course of time, and it was their bounden duty to attend to it. It therefore appeared to him, if they wished to recommend themselves to public esteem, and to rise in the eyes of the country, that the best mode would be to show that they
 293 294
 Sir Robert Peel  thought the distinction drawn in the Resolution should not be lost sight of. The words "local interest" were inserted where the constituency was referred to; and when the party himself was spoken of, the words "personal interest" were used. It was, therefore, quite clear that a distinction was drawn between local and personal interest by the Committee, and that the latter term was used where the interest of an individual was concerned, and "local interest" where the constituency at large was referred to. He should at the same time admit that it was no easy matter for a Member at all times to declare that his constituents had no local interest in a particular railway; but still he thought the form of the declaration cleared away much of the difficulty that had been suggested to the House. The words of the declaration were, "I, A B, as one of the Members, &c., do hereby declare that my constituents have no local interest, and that I have no personal interest," &c. The Committee believed they had given satisfaction in suggesting that Resolution, but still many points of difficulty would arise. For instance, a Member for the City of Dublin would find it hard to say whether his constituents were or not interested in a particular line of communication with the centre of Ireland, or with the west of Ireland.
 285
 Sir Robert Peel  remarked, that they should look at the question in a practical point of view. They should consider that any alteration in the Railway Department of the Board of Trade could not effect any change in their legislation during the present year. It had been announced that night by his noble Friend, that not only were the decisions of the Railway Board as to competing lines announced in the  Gazette, 287 288
 Sir W. Jolliffe  said, as the clause stood it was highly objectionable. He did not wonder at landed proprietors complaining of the encroachments made upon their property by railway companies, for it was impossible to say to what extent a company might, not carry the powers contained in this clause. As to a landed proprietor obtaining anything like compensation for the injury done to his property, it was out of the question. No idea could ever be formed of the amount or description of damage likely to be done, as that rested almost entirely with the engineer of the company, who seldom or never gave a proper notice of the proposed encroachments. The extent to which the power conferred by these clauses was acted upon was most incredible. A piece of land might be covered with chalk, and there it remained not only for a short period of time, but to the permanent injury of the lands and the general disfigurement of a fertile and verdant estate. Such a system as this, all must admit, was most injurious to the
 267
 Sir W. Jolliffe  said, that this clause was so utterly objectionable that he did not think either the House or the country would suffer it to be introduced into any Bill. He did not wish to place a railway company in a worse position than any other company, but by having the power of making a deviation of two hundred and fifty yards, they would be acquiring a right which might prove of the utmost detriment to an estate. This deviation might bring the centre of a tunnel close to a mansion, or it might fall upon a lot of brick earth. He knew of an instance in which a plot of twenty-three acres was taken in the very centre of a property. In the middle of this was a clay pit, with its brick kilns and other buildings, that covered the whole of this area of twenty-three acres. And not only was there the nuisance of making the bricks, of which not less than 13,000,000 were made during the occupation of the land, but there was not less than 300 labourers encamped upon it for the space of three years; and this nuisance might have existed for seven years, for that was the time allowed for the construction of the railway. For half a mile on all sides the trees and shrubs on the estate were injured and checked in their growth. This he conceived to be an immense nuisance. But there was a further evil, for he understood that while the labourers were domiciled on this property, the small-pox broke out among them, and created a serious danger, not only to the family of the proprietor of the land, but also to all the other residents in the neighbourhood.
 The Earl of Lincoln  hoped he should be able to relieve the hon. Gentleman's anxiety upon the subject of his first question. He (Lord Lincoln) had no reason to anticipate that the cost of the New Houses of Parliament would at all materially exceed the estimate. There would be a small excess, arising from two additions to the original plan, but not at all from any fault of the architect exceeding his original estimate. He should be prepared to lay on the Table of the House to-morrow a statement of the total cost of the two Houses of Parliament, by which it would appear that the small excess above the estimate mentioned last year was chiefly in consequence of two items which he would explain. The original estimated cost was 926,319 l. l. l. l.
 Lord J. Russell  did not wish to be considered one of those whom the right hon. Baronet opposite supposed to be desirous of continuing the Income Tax without any modification. The tax might be viewed in two aspects—first, it might be thought by some parties that, under the plans proposed by the Government, a sanguine expectation might be entertained that the reduction of taxation they proposed might lead to so large an increase of the Revenue, that at the expiration of three years the Income Tax might be relinquished. He had listened very attentively to the debate which took place before the House went into Committee on this Bill, and he certainly thought that the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had entirely failed in showing there was any probability that at the end of three years this tax could be abandoned. If those three years should be marked by as large a degree of prosperity as they had ever yet experienced, this was hardly probable: but if those three years should be years of commercial depression, there could not be the slightest hope that the tax could be dispensed with. But, secondly, this tax might be imposed for three years with the intention, then, should the revenue be found insufficient, to propose its continuance for two or three years longer. But, if there was a probability that this would be the case—and he entertained a strong opinion that it would be so—he thought that they should endeavour to obviate those inequalities which this tax undoubtedly involved. Seeing the course the Government had pursued, the large and comprehensive nature of their plans for the reduction of taxation, he wished they had carefully and minutely considered how they could alleviate the hardships of the Income Tax, and render its operation more equal as regarded permanent and fluctuating income. But, as the Government had not adopted this course, he felt obliged to the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Spooner) for bringing some of those hardships under the notice of the House. With re-
 357
 Lord J. Russsell : If I thought that this Bill was intended only for three years, I should be ready to give the right hon. Gentleman the advantage of it with all its objections; but, as I do not expect that it is a Bill for three years only, after the reduction of taxes that the right hon. Gentleman has made, I am ready to agree to any proposition which, as it seems to me, will make it less objectionable. The right hon. Gentleman says, truly, that if the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman opposite, the Member for Birmingham, is carried, others would be equally desirous to obtain some exemption; but if the principle of the Amendment, which I think a just one, be agreed to, I should then suppose that the Government would take it into consideration, and would say how far the principle should be carried, and where it ought to stop; and that on a future day they would declare their intention to modify the Bill.
 Lord J. Russell : I think, if I were bound to help the right hon. Gentleman at all in this matter, I should say that if any diminution were made in the Income Tax receipts, he might get his money back by making a more rational proposition with respect to sugar. I do not, of course, mean from money paid into the Exchequer on account of sugar, but from that which it is proposed to devote to the benefit of the West India proprietors.
 Mr. Bouverie  said, that the same arguments which had been used with respect to the Income Tax, appeared to have been applied to this Bill; namely, that because it was to be of a temporary character it was not necessary to make it perfect. He could not concur in that argument, for his opinion was, that a Bill imposing taxes, like any other subject of legislation, ought to be made as little onerous to the public as possible. The subject to which he wished to call the attention of the House was a Bill arranging Stamp Duties in Ireland—a Bill which was unequal in its principle, and prejudicial in its operation. Before the English Stamp Acts were extended to Ireland, the Stamp Duties were comparatively light in that country; and he would now call the attention of the right hon. Baronet to the provisions of the Act which it was proposed temporarily to extend to Ireland. In the first place he would remark, that the only just principle which could be extended to the tax upon the transfer of property was, that the amount of the tax should bear a fair and equal proportion to the amount of property transferred. If they looked, however, to the Act 55th George III., the pro-
 365 l. l. l. l. s., l. l., l. l., l. l., l., l., l. l. l. l. l. l. 366
 Mr. Hawes  said, he could see nothing in all that had been addressed to the House that, evening to warrant him in offering anything short of the most determined opposition to the measure then before the House. He did not think the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had made out a case for a continuance of the Income Tax. The right hon. Gentleman had stated in his place in Parliament that there would be no deficit in the Revenue for the present year, but that on the contrary there would on the 5th of April, 1845, be a surplus, amounting to about 5,000,000 l. 342 l. 343 344 s., s., 345 s. s. l. l., 346 nil.; l. l. l., l. l. 347
 Mr. Hawes  had that Return before him; but what he wished to know was, how the balance of upwards of 5,000,000 l. 349
 Mr. Barclay  was opposed to the Amendment. He considered the Property Tax to have been administered in a mild and merciful manner, and that on the whole, the returns to it had been honourably and fairly made. It was his intention to give his best support to the measure before the House; but he, at the same time, should say that he did not think his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had correctly understood the feelings of the House on the subject before them, when he had attempted to excite their hilarity by some of his observations. He considered the reductions in taxation which were proposed to be made by the right hon. Baronet opposite were calculated to prove of the most important utility to the country. He believed the intended abolition of the
 341
 Mr. Darby  was aware of the great inconvenience of discussing general subjects in Committees of this description, and he should, therefore, touch neither upon the Sugar Duties nor the Corn Laws, which had been attempted to be dragged into this debate; he only rose to say that he feared the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government would find himself in a considerable difficulty, if at the end either of three or five years he attempted to bring forward a different Budget; for he thought, from what he had heard in the course of the debate, that the House would force the Income Tax on the right hon. Baronet, whether he would or not. He had supported the imposition of the Income Tax, because he believed there was a necessity for it; but he regarded it as a tax that should only be imposed in times of necessity.
 Mr. G. W. Hope,  in answer to the question of the hon. Gentleman, had to stale that no official report of that complaint had been received by Her Majesty's Government; but there had been received a private letter from Van Diemen's Land mentioning the circumstance. The communication was, however, strictly private, and in no way in the shape of a complaint. The letter stated that any newspaper paragraph upon the subject must be taken with great qualification. The proper and official course for any such complaint to be made was to the Governor of the island, whose duty it would be to forward it to Her Majesty's Government at home. No such course, however, had been pursued; no complaint had been made to Sir Eardley Wilmot; and no official account had been received from him respecting it.
 Mr. Muntz  begged the attention of the House for a few moments, while he explained the reasons why he was opposed to the principle of the right hon. Baronet of continuing the Income Tax. Although he had in the first instance voted in favour of it, circumstances were now, in his opinion, completely altered. He had voted for the Property and Income Tax on the ground that additional taxes were necessary, and because he felt satisfied at the time that any additional taxation on arti-
 326
 Mr. Aglionby  thought that some means ought to be taken to insure something like an equality in the decisions of the assessors under this Act, as throughout the whole country the assessors had indulged in all sorts of freaks. In many parts of Cumberland there were pieces of pasture land which were let from the beginning of April to Candlemas-day (the 2nd of February). These lands were put up annually to a sort of auction, and let to the highest bidder; and they were seldom let to the same tenant for two consecutive years. In such cases, it was manifest that the landlord paid all the charges and taxes. The result, then, was that, under this Act, the charge should not be on the gross rental, but on the rental after deducting the assessment under
 353
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had never heard of the present grievance until that moment, but he would look into it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, as the Motion was not properly before the House, he must decline making any statement on the subject; but he would say that he could not assent to the proposal of the hon. Member.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that if he followed the hon. Member, he feared he should be obliged to open up the whole question of the proportion which those duties bore to property in this country as well as Ireland. He would not deny that there were some amongst the Stamp Duties which required consideration; but he could assure the hon. Member that so far as the duties affecting the transfer of land were concerned, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had not forgotten the subject of purchases of smart quantities of land in Ireland when he was about to introduce the Bill for the assimilation of the Stamp Duties. When he proposed to assimilate the English and Irish Stamp Duties, he made an exception in favour of land in Ireland. He had applied that exception in the way in which he believed it would be most advantageous to Ireland; for he was aware that the tenure of land in small quantities in Ireland was usually on lives for a term of years. With reference to the general arguments of the hon. Gentleman, he should remark that those duties were imposed upon Ireland as a substitute for the Property Tax.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  hoped that the hon. Member would not think that he intended him any slight in abstaining from following him, as it appeared to be the general feeling of the House not to enter upon a debate of the details at that stage.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  explained, that two millions of the surplus to which the hon. Member alluded would be expended in taking up the Exchequer Bills issued in advance on account of the Opium Compensation, and the remainder
 348 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, there was so much in the opening of the right hon. Gentleman's speech, in which he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was about to concur, that he did not feel it necessary to follow the right hon. Gentleman at great length in the several topics which he had submitted to the House. He need not advert to the right hon. Gentleman's statement of the Revenue and Expenditure of the country, because from the figures which had been stated by his right hon. Friend on a former occasion, and which the right hon. Gentleman had repeated, there was no dispute as to facts. Considering the increased expenditure which it was necessary to incur in the course of the ensuing year, and putting out of account those extraordinary resources which could not be looked upon as regular revenue, there was no doubt that, independent of the Income Tax, there would, at no distant period, be a deficiency which would require some means of supply, and that formed one ground on which his right hon. Friend had recommended to the House the continuance of that tax. If the only object had been to make up the deficiency which would have existed, of about 1,800,000 l., 334 l. l. 335 336 l. l., l. l. l. l., l. 337 l. 338 l. l. l. l. 339
 Mr. H. R. Yorke  begged to ask the Chief Commissioner of Woods and Forests,
 324
 Mr. Curteis  rose for the purpose of proposing that the duration of this Bill should be only for two instead of three years; and he trusted that he should receive the support of a large number of the Members present. He saw several of the free-trade Members around him; and he hoped that they would be induced to vote with him, as no doubt they would be willing to believe that the right hon. Baronet would be able to carry out his free-trade notions within two years; or that the state of the Revenue might be such as to render the continuance of the tax beyond that period unnecessary. He conceived that it was not constitutional to levy this large amount
 351
 Dr. Bowring  said, that be, for one, did not indulge the hope that the Income Tax would be removed at the end of three years; for he believed that public opinion was gradually strengthening the right hon. Baronet opposite in the position he had taken. He (Dr. Bowring) would be glad to see the Property Tax considerably increased, because they might thereby be enabled
 358
 Mr. Forster  said, since he had had the honour of a seat in that House he had not heard a speech which had given him more satisfaction than that of the noble Lord who had just sat down. He congratulated the noble Lord on the admirable principles he had enunciated, although, in his opinion, the value of the noble Lord's declaration was materially qualified by his concluding observations. He (Mr. Forster) supported the Income Tax—first, because he was in favour of direct taxation; and, secondly, because he was aware that, without its continuance for three years, they could not expect that large and beneficial remission of taxation by which the right hon. Baronet was enabled to compensate them for the Income Tax. At the same time he regretted that the Bill was brought forward in such a shape as to preclude any amelioration or improvement in Committee. He had not heard any complaints against the tax itself, although he had heard many objections to the manner in which it was carried out. The hon. Member for Lambeth had said that he objected to direct taxation, as having a tendency to drive capital out of the country; but he (Mr. Forster) considered that indirect taxation had a far greater tendency to produce such a result. He found there was some technical objection to the proposal of the Amendment of which he had given notice,
 "That the owners or lessees of mineral works, quarries, lime works, and other similar undertakings, now assessed under schedules A and B, be allowed to make their returns in the same manner, and with the same option of privacy, as other trading companies assessed under schedule D."
 Captain Bernal Osborne  said, that in rising to oppose this Bill, he hoped the right hon. Baronet opposite would not suppose that he was offering any factious opposition to it. But when he heard the noble Lord the Member for London and other hon. Gentlemen say, that they intended to support the measure, although they could not approve of it, he felt that he should not be doing his duty to his constituents if he did not oppose it on the present occasion. If he were only supported by one Member he should divide the House, and would, therefore, move that the House go into Committee on the Bill that day six months.
 Mr. Spooner  had given notice, that he should, in Committee on this Bill, propose four Amendments, to this effect:—
 "Clause enabling persons assessed under schedule D to deduct from the profits of their trade such sum or sums of money as would have been a fair remuneration to persons, not members of their family, for services performed by any member of their respective families. Clause to enable parties assessed under schedule D to deduct poor rates, and other parochial and local rates, paid in respect of premises used by them for the purposes of trade. Clause to enable parties charged under schedules D and E to deduct from the profits of their trade the amount of premiums paid for insurance upon their lives. Clause to authorise deduction on account of certain articles kept for the purposes of trade, though such articles may occasionally be used for other purposes." 356
 Mr. Spooner  was acting, not on the principle of reducing the Property Tax, but of doing justice. Was it fair that a man whose income ended with his life should pay out of it the same sum as the man who left his income behind him? He should persist in moving an Amendment on the first opportunity, and he did hope and trust that the noble Lord would give him his support.
 Mr. Thornely : I wish to repeat the question which I put yesterday to the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Treasury. I yesterday stated that a quantity of sugar had reached this country from the United States, which was notoriously the produce of slave labour. The question which I then put has become of more importance, because to-day I rind that samples have arrived of cargoes of two or three shipments from New Orleans. The question wish to put is this, whether this sugar, the produce of Louisiana, and therefore the produce of slave labour, will be admitted at the same rate of duty as sugar
 323
 Mr. Thornely  had heard the answer of the right hon. Gentleman with great satisfaction. He begged simply to state that the produce of sugar in Louisiana was such as would give great profit on its exportation to this country, and that there was every reason to believe the new trade would be carried on to a very considerable extent.
 Mr. Wakley : Would it not be better, after what has already transpired, that the right hon. Baronet should state whether
 362
 Mr. Wakley  said, if the right hon. Gentleman would state positively that he would abandon this tax at the end of three years, he would be the last roan to interfere, as he thought that this general financial scheme of the right hon. Gentle-
 355
 Mr. Wakley  said, that instead of increasing the power of the Board of Taxes, he held a proposition in his hand, which he should propose at a subsequent stage of the Bill, to give all the powers under the Act to the Local Commissioners, and to take it away from the Board of Taxes. He, however, had risen for the purpose of pointing out a serious grievance and injustice under the operation of the Bill. It appeared that although a tenant might abscond without paying any rent, yet the landlord was compelled to pay this Property Tax on the rent, although he had not received any. It appeared that in such case the local commissioners had no power of absolving the landlord from the tax under such circumstances; this, he conceived, was a very great hardship. He held in his hand the statement of a case of this kind, which occurred in the Holborn and Marylebone divisions, where a gentleman of the name of Chaloner, residing in the Edgware-road, addressed to the local commissioners a complaint of this kind, and they referred him to the Board of Taxes. On his making an application in that quarter he received an answer, in which he was informed that the circumstance of the landlord not receiving his rent was no ground for the remission of the payment of the tax; for the rent, under the circumstances stated, became a debt, which might be hereafter recovered by the debtor. Now this was a very hard case; and he put it to the right hon. Baronet whether this tax should not be levied in such a manner as to fall as lightly as possible on those who had to pay it. He
 354
 Mr. Ewart  said, there was another question connected with this subject, which he was anxious to have answered. He wished to know whether the right hon. Baronet was aware that all the sugar coming from Louisiana was brown Muscovado sugar, and, therefore, would come into this country at the duty of 23 s., s.
 Mr. Ewart  wished to ask a question of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies. By Act of Parliament the justices of Van Diemen's Land were, he believed, empowered to visit the different prisons and penitentiaries of that island. He had been informed that obstructions had been given to the exercise of this duty on the part of the magistrates, and that, on their applying for permission to enter into one of the female factories or prisons, they were informed that they could not be allowed to do so without the authority of an officer called the Comptroller-General. He believed it was of great importance that the magistrates should have the power of visiting the prisons; he, therefore, wished to ask whether any information had been received by the Government of this complaint of obstruction?
 Mr. Ewart  did not coincide with his hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham, nor with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Portsmouth, and he intended to vote against the Amendment. He thought in the latter part of the administration of the Exchequer by his right hon. Friend, that the real tendency, which had been pointed out by the wants of the times, was, that they should not impose any more taxes upon imports, but that they should revert to taxes upon property. His right hon. Friend touched those two keys of taxation; he tried his 5 per cent. upon imports, and found that fail him; but when he tried his 10 per cent. upon the assessed taxes, he obtained an increase of revenue. He (Mr. Ewart) was convinced that, so far as it could be done,
 340
 Mr. F. T. Baring  said, that if he really
 327 l., l., l. l. 328 l. l. l. 329 330 l. l., l. 331 l. l. Chancellor of the Exchequer: l., l., l. l. 332 l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. 333
 Sir J. Graham  could assure the noble Lord that he had considered the recommendation of the Committee referred to, and had repeatedly given his attention to this subject; but he was bound to say, that the more he had considered it, the more was he convinced of the difficulty of legislating upon it. He had not been able to frame any measure satisfactory to his own judgment, and he was not therefore in a condition to bring any Bill into the House on this subject during the present Session. He feared that any prohibition of interment within the walls of a city would not be in harmony with the feelings of a great body of the people.
 Sir R. Peel  declined entering into any argument upon the subject at present.
 Sir Robert Peel : There are certain countries—the United States being one of them—where sugar is produced by the labour of slaves. The United States, and one or two other countries, have concluded Reciprocity Treaties with this country, which Treaties stipulate that the produce of such countries shall be admitted into this country on the footing of the most favoured nation. That, I apprehend, is the state of the case. But, up to this hour, there has been no official information received by Her Majesty's Government, from the Custom-house, with respect to the arrival of this shipment of sugar, nor has any communication been made to the Treasury Board upon the subject, nor any application for an Order in Council which would be necessary before the sugar could be admitted. At present, I apprehend that the sugar could not be admissible, for no Order in Council has been issued for its admission from the United States. At the same time I have no hesitation in saying that my construction of the Treaty is, that sugar from the United States would, under the Reciprocity Treaties, be admissible on the same terms and footing as sugar from Java, Manilla, and China.
 Sir R. Peel  would suggest to the hon. Member, as it had already been declared by a large majority, that this tax should continue for the period of three years only, whether it was worth while to make such small amendments. They should, however, in considering a suggestion like that of the hon. Member, take care that while they adopted a proposition with a view to give relief, they did not open the door to fraud. No doubt there might be particular cases in which the demand of the Income Tax might be a grievance, and when the enforcing the payment was not consistent with equity; but in attempting to remove this they afforded opportunity to the commission of fraud. He did not know what the circumstances of the present case were. [Mr.  Wakley: bonâ fide
 Sir R. Peel  said, that it was impossible to say what would be done at the end of three years. Perhaps by that time, the people might become so enamoured with the whole of the measure as the hon. Member now was with the Property Tax. In saying this, however, he would state, at the same time, that he did not despair of their being able to get rid of it altogether at the end of three years. If, however, the House of Commons preferred having the Bill for five years, on condition of adopting this Amendment, he would not object.
 Sir R. Peel : I should certainly be very discourteous were I to say that I should resist every alteration that can be proposed; but I may tell the hon. Gentleman that I have the strongest impression that it will be consistent with true policy to continue the Bill for the present. But it we admit the hon. Gentleman's Amendment, we shall have a whole host of Amendments forced upon us, which will render it quite impossible for us to conclude our arrangements before the 5th of April. The noble Lord the Member for London states that he shall support the Amendment of my hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham, for the insertion of a clause to enable parties charged under Schedules D and E to deduct from the profits of their trade the amount of the premiums paid for insurances on their lives. But why is that to be confined to profits on trade only? Why is not the clergyman and every one whose income is temporary to enjoy the same privilege? My hon. Friend the Member for East Somersetshire (Mr. W. Miles) is going to propose an Amendment to relieve tenant farmers; and if we admit any of these we shall have claims made by every person who derives his income from temporary
 363
 Sir R. Peel : At an early part of this discussion we were blamed for having contracted so narrowly our surplus. We were told that it was not enough to have a surplus of 100,000 l.
 Viscount Ebrington  believed that the numerous taxes levied for the benefit of monopolists had tended to drive capital out of this country, and to injure its manufac-
 361
 Viscount Ebrington  said, that the paucity of small freeholders in fee in Ireland had been noticed by him as productive of diffi-
 367
 Lord Mahon  said, that he had a question to ask the right hon. Baronet, with reference to a subject upon which the hon. Member for Lymington had a Motion on the Paper, the practice of interment
 325
 Viscount Sandon  said, it had long struck his mind most forcibly that the time was approaching when they must look more to direct and less to indirect taxation; and the connexion he had the ho-
 359 l. l., 360
 Mr. Tatton Egerton : The great difficulty experienced by all Committees on Bills of this sort was, that sufficient time had not been afforded for a full consideration of such a clause as that now under discussion. In the present instance, however, that difficulty could be removed, by postponing the clause until after the recess; and that interval could be employed by the engineer in endeavouring to ascertain, as minutely as possible, the quantity of land he would require to take up at either side. Another point to which he wished to call attention was, the absolute
 371
 Mr. Tatton Egerton  said, that the hon. Member (Mr. Hawes) had professed to be anxious to secure the interests of the landed proprietors; but he (Mr. T. Egerton) conceived that the course the hon. Member wished to be adopted was only likely to affect the interests of the large landed proprietors. Now, they were well able to defend their own rights; but it was the small landed proprietor whose interest ought to be cared for. If a small freeholder were injured, as by such a deviation which was required by this clause he was very likely, nay almost sure to be, he had no power of bearing the expense of bringing his witnesses to London, and proving his injury before the Committee. He, therefore, thought that the latitude given by this clause was excessive, and ought to be abridged. He thought that the engineers were able to ascertain with more precision than they were accustomed to do what land they would require; and not take, as they seemed inclined to take, one, two, or three miles for their spoil earth. One hon. Member said, that it was utterly impossible for an engineer to tell until he arrived at any particular portion of the line where his bricks for tunnels, or stone for his bridges, were to be obtained. There might be something in that, but still he thought that it was no justification for giving such extensive powers, and that when a deviation was permitted, notice ought to be given to the small landed proprietors whose interests would be affected.
 Mr. Tatton Egerton  thought, in the cases of public roads and highways, these gates were necessary; but that in the cases of footpaths, it would be a needless expense and trouble to the companies.
 Sir W. James  thought the object which the hon. Member for Dumfries had in view was worthy of the highest praise and the cordial support of all parties in the House. He had visited a mechanics' institution
 385 "Ingenuas didicisse fideliter artes Emollit moves, nee sinit esse feros,"
 Mr. Bernal  said, the manner in which the hon. Member for Dumfries had brought forward the subject did him great credit; but he trusted the hon. Member would not dovetail his plan, but confine himself to one proposition. He thought it was highly gratifying to notice the admirable way in which the people conducted themselves on these occasions; and that, so far as they could learn, the one or two outrages which had been committed in public museums were not perpetrated by any of the labouring classes of the country. No operative, that he was aware of, had been convicted of an offence of this nature; but he believed the outrages which had been committed were perpetrated by persons moving in a superior walk of life. This was the only capital in Europe, he believed, that was without a Museum of Art; and when they saw what was done in a neighbouring country, and the impulse that had been given to a love of the Fine Arts by the King of the French, he thought that they should stir themselves to form a Museum of Art and Antiquities in this metropolis which would be worthy of the English nation. Many of the works of art of the middle ages were going to decay. They all knew the money, the taste, and the activity that were bestowed by the King of the French in the encouragement of the formation of a Museum of Antiquities. Notwithstanding what he had stated that evening of the works of art of the Middle Ages going to decay, still there existed sufficient materials in the country to form a collection of this kind. It was the opinion of all men interested in works of art in this country, that there should be a collection formed of the kind which he alluded to. There existed in the country sufficient
 388
 The Attorney General  said, if his hon. Friend had pressed his Motion as it appeared on the paper, he would certainly not, with the limited time which he had to consider the subject, have been prepared to assent to the bringing in of a Bill containing so important an alteration in the administration both of civil and criminal justice in this country. He was not, however, prepared to say, that it was not a case deserving consideration. No one could have practised long as an advocate, and not have felt, at times, the great disadvantage under which the counsel for a defendant laboured, in not being able to address the jury after the evidence was given. The speech of the defendant's counsel was necessarily made before the witnesses were examined; and his case, therefore, very frequently could not be presented with the same force and clearness as it might be after the witnesses were heard—and his counsel had not the opportunity of explaining any apparent discrepancy between the evidence of the witnesses and the opening statement; but while he felt these disadvantages of the present system, it was not easy to suggest an alteration that might not be productive of perhaps greater evil than that which they wished to remove. His hon. Friend had confined himself to the case of the defendant; but he seemed to forget that if the alterations which he proposed were adopted, the plaintiff would be in the position from which, the defendant was relieved. If the
 397 398
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, he hoped, although it was not altogether regular, that he should be permitted to make an observation. He wished, in the first place, to express his acknowledgment to the hon. Member for Montrose for the course that he had adopted. He privately had sincerely
 407
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, he had great ground to complain of the hon. Member for Coventry for the course which he had felt it to be consistent with his duty to take upon that occasion, in having absented himself from the House when he should have brought forward the Motion which had been just made by the hon. Member for Montrose—a Motion which, in his estimation, not only did imply, but was evidently meant to imply, a case of grave corruption against, him in his official capacity. The hon. Member, however, after having placed that Notice upon the Books, sought to deprive him, as far as it lay in his power to do so, of the opportunity of hearing the charges that were brought against him, and of refuting them in his place in Parliament. That opportunity was, however, now afforded him, through the means of the hon. Member for Montrose, to whom he begged to tender his best thanks for having placed himself in the position of the hon. Member for Coventry, and for having brought forward, unsolicited by that hon. Member, the charges which he had himself shrunk from sustaining. Were it not for the kindness of the hon. Member for Montrose, he should have been deprived of the opportunity of answering those charges—an opportunity of which he was most anxious to avail himself. Before entering into the case, he wished again to express his conviction that a more unfair or a more improper course than that taken by the hon. Member for Coventry could not possibly be conceived; for not only was the character of a public servant valuable to himself, individually, but it was also of importance to the public at large, who were interested in his integrity; and, therefore, when an insinuation such as that contained in the Resolution before the House was either made, or, as in the present case, implied, it was most necessary that the very earliest opportunity should be afforded to the party affected by it of offering any explanation in his power to make. He did not complain of the hon. Member for Coventry for having put that Notice on the Books; but he complained of him for not bringing it forward. He knew in his own conscience that he had executed his public duty, not only in that, but in every other instance, so as to leave him perfectly free from any imputation such as that which the Notice of the hon. Member sought to cast upon him. He did not complain that the hon. Member for Coventry should on that, as on other occasions, have cherished suspicions
 400 401 l. l. l. "A claim having been made by the Crown to part of the estates, as waste lands belonging to the Crown, which, in the event of an inclosure, would entitle the Crown to a portion
 402 l., l. 403 l. l. s. d. l. l. s. d. 404 405
 Lord G. Somerset  must still oppose the Amendment. The whole object of the clause under discussion was to secure the safety of the public; and in order to that end by leaving out the words last mentioned by the hon. and learned Gentleman, it was rendered absolutely necessary that there should be no deviation from the principle laid down in the clause. If the Amendment were agreed to, be could not see that the public would have so much protection as they had at present. The clause under discussion related only to public carriage roads, and to turnpike roads; and whenever they were crossed, it was not denied that ample security was afforded to the public. The 44th Clause related to the crossing of footpaths; and he should think that the hon. and learned Gentleman's Amendment would have come in better there than here. Wherever there was a private right of way which was necessary to be protected, the Private Committee might interfere; and he should have no objection to the introduction of such a clause in the Private Bills.
 Lord G. Somerset  had no doubt, but that by Tuesday next, or whatever day the Committee should adjourn to, this clause would be framed so as to meet the wishes of all parties.
 Lord G. Somerset  intimated that he could not agree to the Amendment proposed.
 Lord G. Somerset  thought that the Amendment would lay down a principle which the Committee would find very difficult to carry out. However, as the sense of hon. Members seemed so strongly in its favour, he would not oppose it. But he would propose, either as a new clause or as an addition to this, a provision such as was suggested by the hon. Member for Berkshire. That clause could not be drawn up in a minute; and he would take time, until the bringing up of the Report, to prepare it. At present, he would not oppose the insertion of the words in the hon. Member's (Mr. Aglionby's) Amendment.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, he would consider what alterations would be required, and then frame a special clause to meet them as well as the views of the hon. Member. This special clause he should submit to the Board of Trade, and if it
 377
 Lord G. Somerset  conceived that if the hon. Member's suggestion should be agreed to, it would have the effect of annihilating railways altogether; at least, if a line of any length was to be made, it would be rendered almost useless if it were to be crossed by four or five hundred gates, and men at each, and all to be kept up at the expense of the company. If the hon. Member's Amendment were inserted, it would be found to be so mischievous, that it would be rendered nugatory by the number of exceptions that would be introduced. He conceived that giving the power proposed by the hon. Member to local Justices, more real harm than good would be done the public. On the whole he did hope that the House would not agree to this proposition, and if it should divide upon it he would resist it, for he conceived it would be an ill-advised course to adopt.
 Lord J. Manners  said, when he recollected
 390
 Mr. Lawson  wished to express his opinion in favour of the Amendment. Foot passengers had just as much right to protection as any other class of passengers. He had seen, on the London and Birmingham Railway, great inconvenience arise from the want of sufficient accommodation for foot passengers. At Harrow, they had to go down steps on the one side, and ascend on the other; and this he thought was extremely injurious to the public safety. He would refer these matters, in the first instance, to two Justices on the spot, and then let them be referred, as other cases were, to Quarter Sessions. At the same time, he wished to give every facility to railways. He was not one of those who wished to offer any vexatious impediments to those great projects; but still he must say the suggestion of the hon. Member for Cockermouth met with his entire approbation.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that any course which might be taken must be attended with some inconvenience, if there were not such a clause as that which was contained in this Bill. He was sorry, therefore, that the noble Lord and the hon. Gentleman opposite had consented to the postponement of this clause; and he thought they were taking a considerable responsibility respecting it. He had taken the liberty, when last in Committee, of stating his views respecting the difficulty which was likely to arise from the operation of a clause of this
 372 Sibthorp: argumentum ad baculum. 373
 Colonel Sibthorp  hoped that hon. Members would receive sufficient time for the consideration of this clause before they should be called upon to pass it. For his own part, he would have no hesitation in saying that the clause as it now stood would never give satisfaction to the landowners in this country, for this reason—that it, in fact, meant nothing more nor less than the absolute total annihilation of every estate in the country for the benefit of a few speculators. He should like to know from the noble Lord (Lord G. Somerset) whether he had considered this clause with a view to its further modification.
 Colonel Sibthorp  objected to the paragraph in the clause which imposed a penalty of 40 s. s.,
 Colonel Sibthorp  trusted that the hon. and learned Gentleman would divide the Committee, and he (Colonel Sibthorp) should certainly divide with him. They might talk about expense to the railway companies; but he would wish them to look at the interest of thousands of the public that had been already destroyed. He was exceedingly jealous of the power given to railroads; and he should strongly oppose this clause.
 Mr. Wodehouse  protested against the supposition that the landed interest entertained any jealousy of those who supported railways, or of railways themselves. He had lived, during the construction of the Norwich and Yarmouth Railway, very near to it, and he had never sustained the slightest inconvenience from it; and such had been the case with a noble Friend in his neighbourhood. In the case of a special train, the adoption of the suggestion of the hon. Member would cause great inconvenience. In one instance, a physician's attendance was required at Yarmouth; a special train was taken, and in consequence of there being no impediment, he performed the distance between Norwich and Yarmouth in a quarter of an hour, which would otherwise have taken him nearly two hours. With respect to the jealousy supposed to be entertained by landowners of railway projects, he would beg to assure the hon. Member for Wells, that he never was more thoroughly mistaken than in that supposition.
 Mr. Cardwell  did not hesitate to say that if the words were inserted which the hon. Member for Cockermouth wanted, they would have the effect of preventing the Committee from making any alteration whatever. The parties who were to be protected were not the railway parties, but the public. It was not reasonable, in securing the interests of the public, that they should require that 300 or 400 gates, and 300 or 400 gatekeepers should be appointed, when, perhaps, their services would not be required oftener than once or twice in the twenty-four hours. Doing so would be highly expensive to the company, while there would be no adequate benefit to the public; and he, therefore, hoped that the House would negative the proposition of the hon. Member for Cockermouth.
 Mr. Shaw  wished to state, before the Motion was withdrawn, that it had been mentioned to him in the early part of the evening by his hon. Friend the Member for Lymington, that he had occasion to look into in to the matter when the property was offered for sale, and he was convinced that if this claim of the Crown had been exposed for public sale, it would not have produced 20 l.
 Mr. Darby  thought that the preservation of the footpaths was of the greatest importance. If there was not something done to compel the companies to make proper ways instead of the paths which they intercepted or destroyed, might they not carry their road across a path, and then make steps in the cuttings on both sides, and leave it to those who used the footpaths to find their way as they could across the rails, even when the train was coming?
 Mr. Darby  said, he entertained great objection to the clause as it now stood. No doubt the same clause had been introduced in all former Bills; but it must be remembered, that the objection to it was considerably decreased when railway projects were few and far between. If the clause were allowed to remain in its present form, a railway company would have power to do what they thought proper with an estate, and deprive the proprietor for an unlimited time of his right of ownership. Still he must admit, if they struck this clause out altogether, and substituted none other for it, great difficulties would arise. They would have one Committee taking one view of the case, and another restoring the clause in its present objectionable form, and thus in many instances the hardship he complained of would be continued. He thought, then, some special clause ought to be introduced; but one more modified than that which the present Bill contained. The next difficulty that had been suggested to him was, that the Bill had been before the public for sometime, and all the Railway Acts had been prepared in accordance with its provisions. If, however, the
 370
 Mr. Aglionby  said, he hoped the noble Lord would consent to insert the word "highways" in this clause, instead of "carriage roads."
 Mr. Aglionby  expressed his surprise at such opposition on the part of the noble Lord, when a majority of the Committee had the other day decided in favour of a similar proposal. Though the clause was not the same, the principle was; it was that of extending a just protection to the public in the cases to which the clause referred. He knew the noble Lord had said that the effect would be, in all cases, to prevent railway companies from making roads on a level; but that was a mistake; such power was reserved to the Committee sitting on a special Act, to say whether, in particular cases, roads should be made on a level, or whether the public safety
 375 "The company shall make convenient ascents and descents, or bridges over, or culverts under, the railway, where necessary for the convenience of the public." "And in those cases where bridges, either under or over, can be conveniently made and are reasonably required, the company shall, on the requisition of two Justices of the Peace, construct such bridges in lieu of such ascending and descending approaches."
 Mr. Aglionby  said, another paragraph in this clause went in direct violation of his views. The part to which he alluded made it compulsory for railway companies to build stiles, but said nothing about gates, or men to mind them. Now he wished to establish this principle—that the foot passenger should be protected in the same way as the carriage passenger—namely, by putting up gates; and where it was thought necessary, placing officers to mind them. Were there not hundreds of cases where human life was endangered by the absence of these precautions? Was there to be no gate or other protection at both ends of a footway, which might pass through a populous town, and be crossed by railway? On such footways, men and women, and children were continually passing, and it was no use to say that the publication of the starting and arriving times of the trains was sufficient warning. Therefore, he would say, have a general clause requiring the erection of gates in all cases, and officers where necessary, and then leave to the local justices the detail. He begged to move as in the preceding clause, the insertion
 378
 Mr. Aglionby  thought it would be better for the House to admit that it was ill-advised, than that it had been inconsistent. If stiles were to be made, he would ask why not gates also? And, surely, if local Justices were to be deemed competent to decide as to where bridges were and were not necessary, they were equally competent to form a judgment as to the necessity for a gate? On the whole, he was so strongly impressed with the justice and fairness of his proposition, that he would divide the House upon it, for he conceived he would stultify himself by not doing so.
 Mr. Aglionby  thought that that would answer his purpose.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that there appeared to have been an entire misconception of his arguments and intentions. His hon. and learned Friend the Member for Wells (Mr. Hayter) had led the House to believe that if the Amendment were agreed to, there would be an end to all railways; and that the Committee on each Private Bill would be entirely precluded from entering into the merits of the various Bills—technically it would be so at present; but he (Mr. Aglionby) had intended, if his Amendment had been carried, to have proposed the insertion in the clause of the words, — "except where otherwise provided by the Special Act." That would assimilate this clause with the preceding one, and would leave the subject perfectly open to the Private Committees. If it would give the Committees additional trouble, he would remind hon. Gentlemen that the public safety ought to be their first consideration; expense, at
 381
 Mr. Labouchere  said, there had been so little difference of opinion among hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the House who had spoken upon the subject of the proposed Bill, and his own views so much coincided with those that had been put forward by others, that he felt it would be inexcusable in him to detain the House for more than a single moment. But having taken a warm interest in the success of the School of Design, which had been established by his lamented Friend the late Lord Sydenham, who, he should be permitted to add, had conferred a lasting benefit upon the country by its foundation; he felt that the present subject was one which he could not allow to pass altogether in silence. He wished to observe that he considered the measure proposed by his hon. Friend the Member for Dumfries one of the utmost possible importance; and he thought it would be materially promoted by the institution to which he had just alluded, and which was calculated to supply the country with well-trained teachers in the arts. He quite agreed with his hon. Friend that it was most important the inhabitants of the
 393 394
 Dr. Bowring  was quite sure, that the provisions in the Amendment, if agreed to, would only be rendered necessary in a very few cases. The exceptions would certainly much preponderate; for not in one case out of twenty would it be necessary to erect gates and appoint gatekeepers on crossing a footpath.
 Mr. W. Patten  thought the Amendment would do no good unless the suggestion of his hon. Friend the Member for Berkshire (Mr. R. Palmer) were adopted. It would be best to leave it to persons on the spot to say whether the footways and bridle ways should be crossed or not.
 Mr. Brotherton  defended the national character of the people of this country from the imputation that they were not able properly to appreciate works of art, and urged that the experiments made had shown that they both possessed
 391 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Henley  approved of the proposition
 376
 Mr. Henley  conceived that the House should look at this question in this way. There were now two hundred and forty Bills for Railways before it; and would it run the risk of now making a mass of faulty legislation, which might involve very serious questions as regarded property, merely for the sake of passing those two hundred and forty Bills?
 Mr. Hume  could not hesitate for a moment in rising to say that he was perfectly satisfied, as he was sure the
 406
 Mr. Hume  observed that if such was the wish of the noble Lord he was bound to assent.
 Mr. Hume  said, there could be no doubt of the importance of the subject; but he hoped that the Motion of the hon. Gentleman would be enlarged, so that power might be given to town-councils, not only to provide museums fit and proper for the purpose, but also playgrounds and public walks for the recreation of the populace. He was glad to find that the efforts which of late years had been made to promote a taste for the fine arts among the people of this country had proved more successful than many persons in that House and out of it had expected. He believed, that as compared with the French, German, and Italian people, the English had embraced and profited by every opportunity afforded them, as far as it was possible for them, of visiting and inspecting works of art; nay, that they had even gone beyond other nations in doing so. At the same time it ought to be observed, to their credit, that they had shown themselves most careful not to injure any of the valuable exhibitions submitted to their view. Should his hon. Friend succeed in getting his Bill introduced, of which he had no doubt, he hoped it would be made to embrace those other objects. In some towns museums were already established, and the town-councils should be empowered to apply any means they might have to the formation of public walks and
 387
 Mr. Hume  said, in the absence of his hon. Friend the Member for Coventry (Mr. Williams), he would, if the House permitted him, bring forward the Motion of which his hon. Friend had given notice. He had come down to the House with the intention of merely seconding the Motion, as he did not think it was a subject on which any discussion should take place until the Papers were before the House. He would therefore beg leave to move for—
 "Copies of all Surveys and Valuations of 7, 438 acres 36 roods of land belonging to the Crown, adjoining to the Duke of Newcastle's Hafod Estate, in Cardiganshire, which has been sold to his Grace by private contract for 1,049 l. s. d.
 Mr. M. Gore  had listened with pleasure to this debate, because it was on a subject of great importance, involving the well-being or the community. It was a wise and sound policy to promote such objects as those which had been suggested; they were calculated to improve the social system, and to render the artisan and the labourer sober and industrious, cheerful and intellectual. With regard to a geological museum, nothing could be productive of more public advantage. The conduct of the people had been noble when advantages of this kind had been offered to them; and this step would tend not only to raise science to a loftier eminence, but at the same time, while improving the morals and purifying the spirits of the people, to extend the basis on which rested the foundation of peace, security and national prosperity.
 Mr. Sheil  wished to call the attention of the hon. Gentleman to the propriety of introducing in his Bill a provision for having the proposed institutions open on Sundays. It was quite manifest that a very large portion of the population of the country could not avail themselves of the advantages which such institutions would hold out to them except on Sundays, and the only objection which he anticipated could be urged against his suggestion was, that there would be many persons employed in the care of the establishments who would require a day of rest as well as the rest of the community; but that might be given them on any other day of the week. Unless that arrangement were adopted, he did not think the measure would produce half the benefit which it might be made to confer.
 Mr. R. Palmer  agreed with the hon. Gentleman on this subject. The case of bridle roads was one well deserving consideration. He should suggest a reference to Justices in the case of footways.
 Mr. R. Palmer  thought that a clause of this nature ought to be inserted; but he did not think that this was sufficiently precise. They could not tell whether it was a thousand yards or only two hundred
 374
 Mr. Wyse  adverted to purposes he had in view when originally advocating the formation of a School of Design in London. He complained that the Government of the day had unfortunately limited itself to that sole object, which for some time continued a merely elementary establishment. Every day more strongly proved the necessity of corresponding institutions in the provinces. Hitherto provincial schools had met with difficulties from want of sufficient contributions; and the
 384
 Mr. Entwisle  said, the hon. Member for Cockermouth would find that the exceptions to the rule which he sought to establish, would be so numerous as to increase the business before Private Committees, rather than decrease it; and he, therefore, conceived that the adoption of the words proposed would be the very means of defeating the hon. Member's own object. If the expense were increased to the companies, the public in the end would have to pay it.
 Mr. Ewart  rose for the purpose of moving for leave to bring in a Bill to enable town-councils to establish Museums of Art in corporate towns. The merit of the measure was almost entirely due to the hon. Member for Taunton, who had acted with him on the Committee which sat upon the subject. That Committee recommended the establishment of Schools of Design, and, first of all, it recommended the establishment of a central school in the metropolis. It also recommended the establishment of Schools in the various manufacturing towns in connexion with the central school. Only one thing was wanted now; and that was, that the central school should be devoted rather to the purposes of a normal school for making masters, than for the purpose of elementary education in art. That was the original design of the school, as his right hon. Friend the
 382 383 "Non obtusa adeò gestamus pectora Pœni: Nee tam aversus equos Tyriâ Sol jungit ab urbe;"
 Mr. Ewart  said he had given notice of another Motion, which he would beg leave slightly to modify in offering for the consideration of the House. It was for a Bill to enable the defendant's counsel in civil, and the prisoner's counsel in criminal cases, to address the jury on the close of the evidence for the prisoner or defendant. If it would be more in accordance with the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (the Attorney General), he would alter his Motion so as not to move for leave to bring in a Bill, but simply to draw the attention of the House to the subject. He would not have brought the matter forward in its present form, were it not that having had opportunities of communicating on the subject with some of the most eminent lawyers in the kingdom—not only counsel but solicitors — and
 395 396 "That it is expedient that inquiry be made whether the defendant's counsel in civil, and the prisoner's counsel in criminal cases, should be allowed to address the jury on the close of the evidence for the prisoner or defendant."
 Mr. Ewart  said, his object was merely to draw the attention of the House to the subject. Sic was perfectly satisfied with what had fallen from his right hon. Friend, and he would beg leave, therefore, to withdraw his Motion.
 Mr. Hayter  agreed that if these words were inserted, the Committee would be deprived of the power of making any alteration. He believed that railways were of great advantage to the public; and he should, therefore, protest against the insinuations which had been thrown out against those Members who came down there to render assistance in maturing these projects. Gentlemen connected with the landed interests conceived that all these projects were detrimental to them, and they entertained a jealousy of all those who supported these projects, and thought that their object was some private end, and not the public good. He did not feel that he was actuated by any private end, and he should, therefore, persevere in his course. His object was to do justice, and that should be done to both parties. What was the case? If these gates were erected, two gatekeepers would be required for every single footpath, and thus the company would incur an expense of 100 l.
 Mr. M. Philips  said, the hon. Member seemed to think that some of the town councillors would have no objection to sell their ancestors. As the borough with which he (Mr. Philips) stood connected never had any property, it was not in their power to sell it. He was one of those who advocated everything calculated to promote the taste of the operative classes of the community. After all it should be recollected that it was to them the country was indebted for the carrying out of every design. The great master mind must be called into exercise to produce the design, but it was the operative who carried these designs into execution. It was, therefore, of vast importance that a taste for the fine arts should be developed among the manufacturing community. He thought it was of the utmost importance that a taste for literature and the arts should be encouraged in the rising generation; and
 386
 Sir G. Strickland  hoped that this would form one of the clauses in a Consolidation Bill, instead of being left to Private Bills; for in its present shape it was a source of the greatest alarm to every landowner in the country. Indeed, he had thought of asking what would their ancestors say, if they could but look up from their graves, and behold the manner in which the estates they had left their heirs had been infringed upon and cut up by those railway companies? He had given this clause his closest consideration; but he felt bound to say, that as it now stood he thought it would be by no means satisfactory. The suggestion of the noble Lord opposite, to reduce the power of deviation from 1,000 to 300 yards—[Lord  G. Somerset:
 Sir R. Peel  said: I perfectly well remember the observations which the hon. Member made upon this subject on a former occasion, and I trust that I may say that the matter has not escaped my attention and the attention of the other trustees of the British Museum. We have, of course, received many other suggestions, and it is absolutely necessary that some selection should be made out of the many objects which are worthy of public favour; and however much each of those objects may be worthy of support, of course we can only select those that we conceive of the greatest importance. Now, we have during the recess applied ourselves to the improvement of the Geological Museum, which promises to become of considerable importance; and we hope that we will, during the present Session, obtain the consent of the House to our carrying into effect some arrangement for the purpose of affording the public access to this improved Geological Museum. I agree with the hon. Gentleman in the advantage which the cultivation of the arts is likely to receive from the establishment of these exhibitions; but, at the same time, I advise the House that it is important that they should exercise caution as to how they confer too extensive powers of taxation upon town-councils, for the purpose of establishing these museums. The hon. Member for Dumfries proposes to confer considerable powers of taxation upon town-councils, for the purpose of encouraging the formation of collections of works of art. The hon. Member for Montrose, actuated, no doubt, by the most benevolent purposes, suggests that a portion of this taxation should be applied to the formation of places of recreation for the working classes, and for other desirable objects. But it is necessary to consider what an amount of local taxation this might lead to. Besides, it will be necessary for us, during the present Session, to call upon the House to confer powers of local taxation for the purposes of ventilation, and
 389
 Mr. Hutt , after observing that a misapprehension
 392
 Mr. Stafford O'Brien  was desirous of asking two questions of the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Treasury. First, at what period it was intended the duties on the importation of agricultural seeds were to cease? and next, whether clover seed was included among the seeds the duties on which were to be abolished?
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  seeing the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Treasury in his place, begged to call that right hon. Gentleman's attention to a paragraph which he had read in a newspaper within the last day or two. In the  Times 431 Presse: "The fall of Santa Anna has exposed one of the vastest projects which the undermining ambition of Great Britain ever conceived. It appears from the correspondence of the ex-President of Mexico with the British Minister, that the former, for a sum of 25,000,000 piastres, of which he had reserved for himself a considerable portion, was on the eve of ceding absolutely to Great Britain the magnificent province of California, considered so valuable both by Great Britain and the United States, that the latter, in the year 1837, offered 85,000,000 for the harbour of San Francisco alone. It is not necessary to dwell upon the extraordinary coincidence which exists between the means employed by the British Government with Santa Anna for the possession of California, and those formerly used with Espartero for the possession of the islands of Anabon and Prince's off the coast of Africa."
 Mr. Williams  trusted the House would permit him to explain the reason of his absence yesterday evening, when his name was called, to submit to the House the Motion of which he had given notice, and which stood on the Paper of yesterday. He was also anxious to appease what he thought the rather too sensitive feeling which the noble Lord opposite (Lord Lincoln) had displayed on the question. He had come down to the House last evening with the full intention of making that Motion, but as he had calculated on the Motions which preceded it occupying a much greater length of time, he arrived too late, which he deeply regretted. If he had been present the noble Lord would have spared himself the trouble of making so long a speech on that occasion. He could assure the noble Lord that, in giving notice of that Motion, he had not the slightest intention of imputing anything either to him personally or to his noble father; and if the noble Lord would compare the Motion with the particulars of the sale in the accounts of the Commissioners of Woods and Forests, he would at once perceive that nothing personal could be inferred from it. In the 15th Annual Report of the Commissioners, and signed by the noble Lord, in Appendix No. 2, there was a Schedule of all manors, lands, and hereditaments belonging to the Crown, which had been sold by private contract by the Commissioners of Woods and Forests. Then came the entry with respect to which he required explanation. The date was Oct. 16, 1843. It stated, under the head Cardiganshire, that the Crown had an interest in certain parcels of land adjoining Hafod estate, being waste, amounting to 7438 acres 36 perches, and that such lands were sold to the Duke of Newcastle for 1049 l. s. d. 433 "Copies of all Surveys and Valuations of 7,438 acres 36 roods of land belonging to the Crown adjoining to the Duke of Newcastle's Hafod Estate in Cardiganshire, which has been sold to his Grace by private contract for 1,049 l. s. d. s. d. 434 s. d. 435 l., l. l.
 The Earl of Lincoln  said:—Sir, the hon. Gentleman opposite who has just sat down, has entered into a lengthened statement, and has addressed a very long speech to the House, for the purpose of justifying the Motion on this subject, of which he had given notice. I beg leave emphatically and distinctly to repeat, what I have already stated on last evening, that so far as I was personally or officially concerned, neither the Notice of the hon. Gentleman nor his Motion, required any justification. I stated distinctly on that occasion, that I by no means attached any blame to the hon. Gentleman for having given that Notice. I stated, that if the hon. Gentleman, or any other Member of this House, entertained suspicions that any public servant had been guilty of a dereliction of duty, either he, or any Member of this House, had a perfect right to bring it forward in his place, and to claim an explanation from him. But what I complained of, and what I still complain of, was—and I think I had a right to claim this as a measure of justice from the House, and the hon. Gentleman opposite—that when the hon. Gentleman conceived it to be his duty to place on the Books of this House a Notice of a Motion which plainly imputed to me, as a public servant,
 436 437 438
 Mr. Williams  said, in explanation, that when he first wrote out the Notice in question, he had merely stated "copies of surveys and valuations of Crown Property purchased by the Duke of Newcastle, described in the following entry in the Report of the Commissioners of Woods and Forests," and there was a reference to the Report. That Notice he had shown both to an hon. Gentleman at the Ministerial side of the House, and his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), and having asked their opinion of it, they had considered it would be more advisable to embody the extract in the Notice in the form which he had used, than give an extract itself in inverted commas.
 Mr. Gladstone : Sir, there has been a question put on one side of the House, and a question put on the other; and neither of them has been answered. A question was put from the opposite side of the House, I will say, not with the intention of obtaining any information. That question was put with the intention of raising argument and debate, but not with the intention of gaining information. [Lord  Howick: s. s. 446 s. s. s. d. 447 s. s. s. d. s. d. s. s. d.; s. d., s. d. ad valorem. 448 l. l.,
 Mr. M. P. Stewart , connected as he was with that unpopular body the West Indians, could not help rising to answer some of the charges which had been made by the hon. Gentlemen sitting on the same side of the House as himself. An hon. Member having stated the amount of protection, asked how much it added to the rise in the price of sugar. They had been challenged as to the amount of the tax which it was alleged the people had to pay in consequence of this; but he would remind the House that the whole of the difficulty had arisen from the nature of the legislation which the House had chosen to adopt. The hon. Member for Salford had stated, in the course of his speech, that a Liverpool friend of his induced him to vote for the grant of 20,000,000 l. l., 464 s. d. s. d., s. d., s. d. 465
 Mr. Villiers  said, he thought if the right hon. Gentleman the late President of the Board of Trade were right in his estimation of the argument of the hon. Member for Stockport, then his hon.
 461 Progress of the Nation, l. 462 l., l.
 Mr. James  was sure that the House must be wearied of this discussion—most assuredly he was. Hon. Members questioned the right of the West Indies to protection; the question in his mind was, whether, instead of two, or three, or four millions, they were not entitled to forty millions. Suppose an Act of Parliament were to compel him, as a Cumberland landowner, to employ no labourers on his lands but his own actual parishioners, these being few in number, and having a monopoly of their labour, while his neighbours were allowed to press into their service any
 473
 Mr. Williams : The distinct way of putting the matter was, that so much should be raised as Ways and Means for the Public Service, and so much should be raised as Ways and Means for the West India planters. Then they would have the whole question fully before their eyes on its merits, and the public would understand it. That, in point of fact, was the object of these differential duties. He thought it was the duty of the Committee distinctly to state the amount required for the use of Her Majesty, and the amount required for the use of the West India planters.
 Mr. Gladstone  said, the reason why the discriminating duties had been given up was not because they were supposed to be impossible, but because they were considered to be unjust. The plan which had been rejected did not regulate the duty according to quality, but by any arbitrary test. Judging from the information received from the United States, he should say that there was more entered there which would pay the higher duty than that which would be liable to the lower. He doubted that white clayed sugars could ever be made the standard, for when once mixed they could never be distinguished. An hon. Member on the other side had imputed to him an opinion which he did not hold. He never had said that at all times and under all circumstances the quantity of sugar to be imported from Java would be small; but when the Sugar Duties were under consideration in the month of June last, he did say that the crop of that year in Java had in a great degree been disposed of, and very little more would come from that country. So much for that topic. Now with respect to another. He could not help being amused at the earnestness with which a right hon. Gentleman opposite pressed for a precise estimate of the quantity of sugars that were likely to come under the higher and the lower duties. He perfectly recollected, when that right hon. Gentleman was in office in 1841, that, being himself pressed to estimate the quantity of all kinds of sugars likely to be imported, he said it was impossible to attempt to form any estimate.
 Colonel Fox  believed that five weeks, as the period of the new duties coming into operation, would be an arrangement that would satisfy the refiners. He would propose that the date should be the 25th of April.
 Colonel Fox  consented to withdraw his Amendment, leaving the responsibility of the injury done to individuals to rest with the Government.
 Lord John Manners  wished to ask the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, whether he intended to say, that as far as sugar was concerned, he preferred a sliding scale to a fixed duty?
 Mr. Escott  said, that in all cases of protection, every interest in turn complained most loudly if any proposition was made to touch the duties particularly affecting itself. It was always said that such removal should be accompanied with some concomitant change for their advantage. This was the case with the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He was entirely for free trade in all other matters, but when they came to West India produce, he was against it, unless some other advantage was given to the Colonists. He was not surprised that the hon. Member for Stockport had not received an answer to his question as to how much these protective duties, in this case, added to the cost to the consumer. This question could not receive, and had not received, a direct answer, yet it certainly was a very important question. If the hon. Member had not received a direct answer, he had at least elicited the admission that some portion of the amount of it operated as so much additional cost to the article. This had been admitted by the right hon. Member for Newark. He recollected last year that it was admitted that some proportion of the amount of the protective duty was an addition to the cost of the article. He (Mr. Escott) never had held an opinion in favour of a protecting duty, on the ground that it was so much added to the cost of the article. He was only for such an amount as would protect those engaged in the production of the article in securing a sufficient supply for the consumption of the country. But immediately that it was admitted that it was imposed to increase the cost of the article, a very strong case was made out against such protection. Now, he thought that this was a very strong reason why the Sugar Duties should be passed for only one year, for if they operated as an additional cost to the consumer,
 466
 Mr. Escott  said, this was a very important measure, and it was impossible that this question could be properly discussed without, entering into a rather intricate question—how far the fees for which another system of payment was to be provided by this Bill were authorized by law or justice. This Bill provided a totally different payment for the officers of the different courts. Before entertaining that question, it was necessary to ascertain whether the existing fees were just and legal. This was, therefore, not a question to be disposed of at that time of night, and he pressed on his right hon. Friend the importance of postponing the second reading. He would not consent to the second reading of the Bill without having first a full discussion of the principle. In thirty-two counties, and in seventy-four municipalities, the fees in question had been abolished altogether by the magistracy, thus proving that it was in the power of the courts to do away with the evil, if they were, only prepared to perform their duty, and render the interference of the Legislature unnecessary.
 Mr. Hindley  thought it was quite right not to give a general drawback, but he considered this was a case in which the Government ought to give an extension of time to the parties.
 Mr. C. Wood  had no objection to the principle of classification, but he doubted its practicability on the same grounds as
 489 490
 Mr. C. Wood  was not then going into the question of the propriety of a protective duty, nor was he going to say a word in reply to the argument used by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He rose merely for the purpose of observing that the question before the House was the amount of loss sustained by this country on account of the protection given to Colonial sugar over sugar the produce of Foreign countries; and in the way of answer to that question, he did not think the slightest progress had been made by any
 456 l. 457
 Mr. Darby  was satisfied that the calculations of the hon. Members opposite were erroneous, and that it was perfectly impossible to make out a case to show that the Sugar Duties had increased the cost of the article to the consumers in this country five millions. He was satisfied, if they destroyed the differential duties, that before the termination of five years the consumers would have to pay more for their sugar than they did at present. It would put an end to the production of sugar in our West India colonies, and when that was completed, the people of this country would be in a worse condition than they now were with these protecting duties. He believed that in the long run protection was for the advantage of the consumer, as it operated as an encouragement to the production of the article.
 Mr. Muntz  was not prepared to deny that the West Indians were entitled to some compensation; but whatever bonus was given them, let it be done in a straightforward and intelligible manner, and let Parliament have the credit of it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he rose to explain to the Committee
 474 475 476 477 s., s. d. 478 479 480 481 "1st. In lieu of the Duties of Customs now payable on Sugar and Molasses, there shall, from and after the 14th day of March, be charged, for time to be limited, the Duties following; that is to say,— 
 
 £ s. d. 
 On Sugar the growth and produce of any British Possession in America, or of any British Possession within the limits of the East India Company's Charter, into which the Importation of Foreign Sugar is prohibited, and imported from thence, 
 Double Refined Sugar, or Sugar equal in quality to Double Refined, for every cwt. 1 1 0 
 Other Refined Sugar 0 18 8 
 White Clayed Sugar, or Sugar rendered by any process equal in quality to White Clayed, not being refined, for every cwt. 0 16 4 482 
 
 Brown Sugar, being Muscovado, or Clayed, or any other Sugar not being equal in quality to White Clayed, for every cwt. 0 14 0 
 Candy, Brown, for every cwt. 1 6 0 
 Candy, White, for every cwt. 1 15 0 
 Molasses, for every cwt. 0 5 3 
 2nd. On Sugar, the growth and produce of any other British Possession within the limits of the East India Company's Charter,— 
 White Clayed Sugar, or Sugar rendered by any process equal in quality to White Clayed, not being refined, for every cwt. 1 1 9 
 Brown Sugar, being Muscovado, or Clayed, or any other Sugar not being equal in quality to White Clayed, for every cwt. 0 18 8" 
 Question in respect to the foregoing Duties, put, and  agreed to. 
 Motion made, and Question proposed, 
 "3rd, On Sugar the growth and produce of China, Java, or Manilla, or of any Foreign Country the Sugars of which Her Majesty in Council shall have declared, or may hereafter declare, to be admissible as not being the produce of slave labour, and which shall be imported into the United Kingdom either from the Country of its growth, or from some British Possession, having first been imported into such British Possession from the Country of its growth:— 
 White Clayed Sugar, or Sugar rendered by any process equal in quality to White Clayed, not being refined, for every cwt. 1 8 0" 
 Afterwards Motion made, and Question put, 
 "White Clayed Sugar, or Sugar rendered by any process equal in quality to White Clayed, not being refined, for every cwt. 1 3 4" 
 The Committee  divided; 
 Original Question, 
 "White Clayed Sugar, or Sugar rendered by any process equal in quality to White Clayed, not being refined, for every cwt. 1 8 0" 
 Put, and  agreed to. 
 Brown Sugar, being Muscovado or Clayed, or any other Sugar not being equal in quality to White Clayed, for every cwt. 1 3 4 
 "4th. On all other Sugars not otherwise charged with Duty:— 
 Refined Sugar, for every cwt. 8 8 0 483 
 
 Brown, or Muscovado, or Clayed Sugar, not being refined, for every cwt. 3 3 0" 
 Motion made, and Question proposed, 
 "Molasses, for every cwt. 1 3 9" 
 Afterwards, Motion made, and Question proposed, 
 "Molasses, for every cwt. 0 7 6" 
 And by leave,  withdrawn. 
 Molasses, for every cwt. 1 3 9 
 Candy, Brown, for every cwt. 5 12 0 
 Candy, White, for every cwt. 8 8 0 
 Motion made, and Question proposed, 
 "On Molasses, the growth and produce of China, Java, or Manilla, or of any Foreign Country, the Sugar of which Her Majesty in Council shall have declared, or may hereafter declared to be admissible 0 7 0" 
 And, by leave,  withdrawn. 
 And so in proportion for any greater or less quantity than a hundred weight. That Her Majesty be authorised by Order in Council to give effect to the provisions of any Treaty now in force, which binds Her Majesty to admit Sugar the produce of Foreign Country at the same Duties as are imposed on Sugar the produce of the most favoured Nation. That the Bounties now payable upon the Exportation of certain descriptions of Refined Sugar from the United Kingdom do cease and determine, and that, in lieu thereof, there shall be paid and allowed the following Bounties or Drawbacks; that is to say,— 
 
 £ s. d. 
 "Upon Double Refined Sugar, or Sugar equal in quality to Double Refined, for every cwt. 1 0 0 
 Upon other Refined Sugar in loaf, complete and whole, or lumps duly refined, having been perfectly clarified and thoroughly dried in the stove, and being of a uniform whiteness throughout, or such Sugar pounded, crashed, or broken, for every cwt. 0 17 0 
 Upon Bastard or Refined Sugar broken in pieces, or being ground, or powdered Sugar pounded, or crashed, or broken, for every cwt. 0 14 0"
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was of importance that the discussion as to the date when the new duties should come into operation should not be long delayed. He had heard many complaints about the date—some said the period was too long, and some that it was too short. It was, therefore, advisable that the discussion upon the date should take place at an early period.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was understood to reply, that by the distinction made as to "quality," it was meant that "colour" was not to be made the test—that was the course recommended to be pursued by the hon. Member for Beverley (Mr. Hogg), when he brought the subject before the House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought such words could not be introduced into the Resolution. They were a Committee for granting Supplies to Her Majesty, and not to any other person.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the hon. Gentleman pre-supposed that a fraud had been practised on Java, because in the last Session the rate of duty was taken at 10 s.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, they were then in Committee on Ways and Means, and could not act upon the suggestion of the hon. Member for Manchester. No doubt they might go into a Committee of the whole House, and decide on granting any sum of money to any individual, as recommended by the Crown; but in a Committee of Ways and Means they could not do so.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester (Mr. Gibson) was very fond of a joke, but this was not a subject for jest. The Resolution formerly brought before the House was in the usual form, and it was their suggestion that its consideration should be postponed. He provided an Amendment to the Resolution, and though in the Resolution submitted to the House the words referred to by the hon. Member (Mr. Gibson) did not appear, that made no distinction in the question. They were a Committee of Ways and Means, for the purpose of granting a Supply to Her Majesty, and whether the words referred to were omitted or inserted, made no difference.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that it was true that in 1830 a drawback of 3 s. s. 513
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was extremely difficult to give anything like an estimate regarding facts that were not before the House. His original expectation was that then a greater quantity of the higher class of Java sugar would be introduced into this market. As far as the experiment had gone, however, he had no opportunity of bringing that expectation to the test, because no vessels had arrived from Java, while the number of vessels from Manilla was not larger than that of former years.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the hon. Gentleman had stated that the protection proposed now was less than had been proposed under any former scheme submitted to the House, but doubted whether the consumer would derive any advantage from it. In his opinion, the benefit of all protective duties must be divided between the producer and consumer, and the consequence of such a measure as that which was now proposed would be to bring into this country a very large supply of sugar, which, he believed, would give to the consumer very nearly the whole amount of the reduction of duty. The rise or fall in price of any article must necessarily depend not merely on the differential duty, but on the extent of supply afforded for increased consumption: and as they had reason to anticipate that in the course of the ensuing year there would be from our own possessions in the East and West, and from those Foreign countries that could bring sugar into this country, a supply far beyond the anticipated increase of consumption, and leave a considerable surplus, he did not think it necessarily followed, as the hon. Gentleman had inferred, that the fact of an increased consumption would necessarily lead to an increase of price. The hon. Gentleman anticipated, on the contrary, that the price would be enhanced to the consumer to the full amount of the differential duty. Upon that point he did not agree with him, for the reasons he had stated. As to the precise amount of differential duty to be fixed, it must be observed that this measure was a continuation of that to which the House agreed in the last Session; but the experiment of the introduction of Foreign sugar not having been fully carried into effect, he thought they were bound by the decision of previous years, and that they ought to adhere to that amount of differential duty. Nothing could be more unfortunate with a view to an ample supply of sugar in this country than to throw discouragement upon the efforts of those who were engaged in the cultivation of sugar in our possessions in either quarter of the globe; and, therefore, he thought that by giving a higher duty than the hon. Gentleman thought
 506
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed that the House had already determined that sugar raised by slave labour should be excluded by a duty short of prohibition. By admitting molasses in the proportion that molasses bore to sugar, and acceding to the hon. Gentleman's proposition, they would reverse the decision the House had come to on a former debate, for they would be giving facilities to admit molasses raised by slave labour. Would the hon. Gentleman say that molasses would be brought to them from Java and Manilla? If any hon. Gentleman on the Ministerial side of the House were to propose as a means of relieving agricultural distress, that molasses from Java and Manilla should be allowed to come into this country at a low duty, for the purpose of relieving that distress, the proposition would be treated by the hon. Member for Manchester with the ridicule it deserved.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, if it should be found that the proportion was the same, he should be willing to introduce the Amendment at a future period, in the shape of a clause in the Bill; as this would be a reduction of duty that would be the most convenient mode of dealing with it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not acquiesce in the reasoning of the hon. Gentleman, or the results at which he had arrived as to the effect of the protection proposed to be given to Colonial sugar as
 441
 Mr. Kemble  observed, that little or no authority should be attached to such calculations. It was his firm conviction that if they got rid of the protection duty, and
 463
 Mr. Labouchere : It appears to me that the argument of the First Lord of the Treasury, brought forward in so triumphant a tone, as if it constituted an answer to the question of the hon. Member for Stockport, and the arguments reiterated by the noble Lord (Lord Howick), is one of the most extraordinary evasions ever heard in this House. What was the proposition? That, inasmuch as the plan of the Government supposed a regular trade to this country in Foreign sugar, amounting in the next year to no less than 20,000 tons, the price paid for our Colonial sugar by the consumer must be governed by the price paid for the Foreign sugar, and at which it can be imported into this country. Now, the right hon. Baronet is entirely evading the argument, in what I must think, on the part of so able a debater, a fit of despair. The right hon. Baronet says, "Why, I will bring forward precisely an analogous case in the instance of corn;" and what are the circumstances as described by the right hon. Gentleman himself? Why, that there was actually such a quantity as 3,000 quarters of Foreign corn imported into this country, against a quantity of 20,000,000 quarters of home-grown consumed in this country; and he said that, of course those 3,000 quarters must have precisely the same effect upon the price of the 20,000,000 as the 20,000 tons of Foreign sugar must have upon the 230,000 tons of Colonial sugar which he expects. Why, there is this immense distinction,
 444 445
 Mr. Warburton  observed that if, as was generally understood, the sugar from Java and Manilla came to this country principally in a state more or less refined, a smaller amount of molasses would result, from the manufacture of that sugar; it would be necessary, therefore, to look to an increased supply from other countries. The Amendment now proposed was in the same proportion as the proposed duties on sugar, and he thought, therefore, there could be no objection to it.
 Dr. Bowring  concurred with the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel), that to allow a drawback in this case would tend to great embarrassment. He admitted there might be individual cases of hardship, but he did not see how practical effect could be given to the principle of drawback in all its details in every case in which reduction of duty took place.
 Mr. Bright  contended that the only way to prevent the constant injuries which these frequent alterations inflicted, was to settle the Sugar Duties permanently, and that could only be done on the principle of free trade.
 Mr. Bright  protested against the policy of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in assuming that the objection raised by the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Gibson) was only a jest. The right hon. Gentleman said, "This is a very good thing for a jest—the hon. Member (Mr. Gibson) cannot be serious — but it is hardly time for jokes." But he (Mr. Bright) did not
 487
 Mr. Bright  could not help observing
 467 468 Morning Post 469 470
 Mr. Ricardo  said, it was a most preposterous thing on the part of the West India planters, that, having paid them 20,000,000 l. l. l. l. l. l., l.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had argued that the hon. Member for Stockport put a foolish question, which had been answered by another foolish question, by the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government. That did not appear to him (Mr. Roebuck) to be the case, or to be worthy of either one side of the House or the other. The hon. Member for Stockport put a very pertinent question, and it was answered with exceeding dexterity by the right hon. Baronet, because he merely put his finger upon one part of the question, and did not answer the whole. This would be said, he was sure, of the question of the hon. Member for Stockport, that it was a plain, clear, definite, and brief question, intelligible by everybody; but he did not think any one of those characters could be assigned to the answer made by the right hon. Baronet. The question put by the hon. Member for Stockport was, "If a certain amount of duty be placed upon Foreign sugar as a means of protection, what is the loss to the community by that protective duty?" That was the real meaning of the question. That hon. Member made also a statement which he thought was not quite accurate—namely, that the loss to the community was to be measured by the gain to the planter. There was a loss to the community, made up of different items, besides protection or gain to the planter; there was the great
 449 s. d. Times, s. d. 450 s. s. s. l.
 Mr. Trelawny  wanted to know whether a drawback had been allowed in 1830, when a reduction had been made under similar circumstances.
 Mr. Brotherton  said, he thought they ought to form their estimate of the future by looking to the past. On looking to the result for the last five years, he found that the public were obliged to pay an average of 19 s. d. s. l. l. 460 l. l. l.
 Mr. Henley  said, it was a very inconvenient practice to pass over the principle of a Bill on its second reading, and to reserve that part of the discussion for the Committee, where details only were wont to be considered.
 Mr. Hume  would advise his hon. and gallant Friend not to press his Amendment to a division. It was important to the community that this measure should come into operation on the 14th of March, otherwise between that and the 25th of April great detriment would be done to the commercial transactions of the country.
 Mr. Hume  hoped his hon. Friend would not prevent the public from deriving all the benefit they could receive from the proposed change. The only question was, whether the Government could allow the drawback up to a certain day?
 Mr. Hume  observed that though they excluded the molasses of some countries on the ground of its being the produce of slave labour, molasses produced in the same way would, as in the case of sugar, come in from others. It was cruel and unjust to the great mass of the people of this country to place difficulties in the way of the admission of an article of such general consumption.
 Mr. Hume  said, it was admitted that part of the money that would be raised from the proposed Sugar Duties would be raised for the benefit of the planter; but if they had no power then to take measures for raising money but for Her Majesty, they could not take steps to raise money for the benefit of the planter.
 Mr. Hume  suggested, that for the present the date should be omitted in the 1st Resolution, otherwise the House would
 484
 Mr. Hume : Did the Crown recommend them to grant supplies to the West India planters?
 Mr. Hume  expressed himself surprised as the hon. Member for Beverley (Mr. Hogg) being himself satisfied at the modifications of the Government proposition. He was not aware whether the hon. Gentleman
 493 494
 Mr. Hume  said, the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) was mistaken, because the very object of the Corn Law was to keep up the price of corn. Hon. Gentlemen opposite would not give a pin for the Corn Laws, if they did not keep up the price of corn. Therefore the right hon. Baronet had been arguing against his own Friends. The right hon. Baronet had not answered the question, which was a direct one—what amount the proposed Sugar Duty would put into the pockets of the Colonial proprietors? It was said, that the whole would not go to them; and the question was, what proportion would? He (Mr. Hume) believed that it would depend on the proportion between the quantity coming in and the quantity admitted at the lower duty; at any rate, it was a question which the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer was called upon to answer. He (Mr. Hume) should be told that one in twenty was too small a proportion to have the effect imputed;

 443
 Mr. Hume  said, as allusion had been made to him, he might be permitted to offer a word or two in explanation also of the course which he had pursued in this matter. He should observe, he was very sorry his hon. Friend was not in the House the previous evening. When his hon. Friend showed him the entry in the Report of the Commissioners of Woods and Forests, he had said to his hon. Friend, "This looks very suspicious; but I'd recommend you not to trouble the House about the matter, unless you are well acquainted with the facts of the case;" that was his advice to his hon. Friend. He had said that if the Papers presented to House on the Motion were not satisfactory, he himself would move for an inquiry into the matter. But he did not agree with the noble Lord the First Commissioner of Woods and Forests, that his hon. Friend was bound to bring forward a further case for investigation. If he was satisfied, he might hold his tongue. When his hon. Friend had been absent the previous evening, he had undertaken the responsibility of bringing forward his Motion. He thought it was only fair to give a party implicated by any Notice on the Books of the House the earliest possible opportunity of setting himself clear; and he thought he was really then doing only a kind act towards the noble Lord and his hon. Friend near him, by bringing forward the Motion and taking the responsibility of it on himself; and that his hon. Friend would be of that opinion also, he believed, after a very little reflection. But with regard to the explanation of the noble Lord, he felt bound to state, that long as his experience had been in Parliament, he had never heard an explanation more satisfactory, or more exculpatory than that given by the noble Lord.
 Mr. P. Borthwick  said, his object in rising was to meet the question put. Simple and concise, as the hon. and learned Member for Bath admitted it to be, that hon. and learned Gentleman had not clearly stated it to the House. The question was, not "By how much do you increase the price of sugar by the differential duty?" but, "Do you not increase the price by 10 guineas a ton?" Admitting that the people were taxed by the differential duty, the hon. Member asked, "Do you not tax them 10 guineas a ton?" He rose to ask the hon. Gentleman whether he was serious in putting that question or no? for they were to receive 230,000 tons of sugar from the West Indies, and 20,000 tons from foreign countries; and the hon. Gentleman said, "Because you put a differential duty of 10 s. 455 s. s s. s. l.
 Mr. Cobden  said, there was one point to which he wished to draw attention, namely, as to the amount which would be voted as a tax for the benefit of the Colonial proprietors. He thought both sides of the House would agree that they were going to vote avowedly an amount of money to the Colonial proprietors, and therefore there could be no harm in ascertaining, as far as it could be done, what that amount would be. He would take the right hon. Gentleman's own data, and he thought the fact would appear self-evident as to the amount which they were about to pay to the Colonial proprietors; and as the subject might be adverted to in the discussion upon the Income Tax on Monday—for the two questions were pretty much blended together—he should like to know the fact from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The right hon. Gentleman assumed that we should receive 230,000 tons of Colonial sugar, and we were to pay 10 l. s. l. s. l. l. l.,
 Mr. Sheil  had received a letter from a grocer of Clonmel stating, that as there was no bonding warehouse in that town, he and others had taken out and paid the duty upon a large quantity of sugar for home consumption, and that they would be very seriously injured if no drawback was allowed. Now, the case of the grocers of Clonmel would be that of the grocers of every other town similarly circumstanced. Though the great merchants of London and Liverpool might not be affected by the change taking place before the 5th of July, the period guaranteed by the existing Act, the case was different with the grocers and small dealers.
 Mr. Bramston  thought the case of the refiners required some consideration at the hands of the Government. He denied that they could raise the price to the consumer, which right hon. Gentlemen seemed to suppose; for it was not to be imagined that the people would consent to pay a higher price. It must be remembered also that only three-fifths of the sugar that went to the refiners came out as refined sugar—the rest was refuse, and the loss the refiner would sustain on that would more than counterbalance any increase in price they might put on the refined article.
 Mr. M. Gibson  would endeavour so to alter his Amendment as to meet the views of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and make the proportion between the duties on the different kinds of molasses the same as that on the different classes of sugars. He would substitute for the Amendment
 509 s.
 Mr. Milner Gibson  observed, that this was a very high rate of duty to impose upon Foreign, as compared to Colonial molasses. What became here of the 10 s. d. s. s. s.,
 Mr. M. Gibson  said, that if his Amendment were out of order, of course he would not press it; but if his Amendment were out of order, the Resolutions were still more at variance with the rules and regulations of the House; for the Government proposed by those Resolutions to regulate a matter of trade in a Committee of Ways and Means. A Committee of Ways and Means was a Committee for the especial purpose of voting a Supply to Her Majesty; and it was a Committee of the whole House which should undertake the regulation of any branch of trade. Would it not, then, be more regular to propose this in a Committee of the whole House? He conceived that it was very hard on him not to allow him to introduce the words which he had proposed, for it was only reasonable that the public should know what was intended to be carried into effect by the vote of public money which the House of Commons was called upon by the Government to agree to. That appeared to him to be reasonable,
 488
 Mr. M. Gibson  thought it could not be wondered at that a Gentleman should raise this question, when the Members of the Government had been the first to depart from the long-established system. In the 1st Resolution formerly submitted to the House upon the Sugar Duties, the words "towards raising the supplies granted to Her Majesty" occurred. Now, he concluded that it was intended to omit those words, because the Government was not going to confine itself simply to raising Supplies for Her Majesty. The Amendment he had to propose was, that after the word "Majesty," there be added the words "and for the purpose of giving a bounty to the growers of sugar in the Colonies." [The  Chairman:
 Mr. M. Gibson  asked whether any Resolution in which occurred the words "towards raising the Supplies granted to Her Majesty" had been passed? In the Resolutions formerly submitted to the House, it was stated that the object in imposing the proposed duties was to grant a Supply to Her Majesty. [The  Chairman: "That towards raising the Supplies granted to Her Majesty, the following duties should be imposed." 485
 Mr. Milner Gibson  believed it was an undoubted fact that the price of Foreign sugars during the past year was but 21 s.; s. s. s. 459 s. d. l. l. s. l. l.
 Mr. Mitchell  said, there was a great difference between the case of a fixed duty upon corn referred to by the noble Lord, if only some small quantity of 3,000 quarters were imported for the purpose, perhaps, of improving the inferior quality of the home produce, and the case of sugar, in which, according to the right hon. Baronet, there would be as much as 20,000 out of 250,000 tons imported from foreign countries. He admitted that if the protective duties were at once taken off, there would be a rise in the price of Foreign sugar; but what did he care for an increase in the price of the article in this country, when the same increase must take place in all the Continental markets. The complaint made by the flax, and cotton, and woollen manufacturers of England was, that they could not compete with the Foreign manufacturers, as long as they had to pay higher prices for their sugar and their corn than were paid in the Continental markets; and he cared not whether an equalization were caused by a rise in the Foreign markets or by a fall in the markets at home; in either case the result would be the same, in relieving their manufacturers from the inequality to which he had alluded.
 Mr. Thornely  said, that he held in his hand a Parliamentary Paper, which threw a great deal of light on the sugar question, both as regarded the consumer in this country and the price of it. The Paper to which he alluded was moved for by the hon. Member for Lambeth on the 2nd of May, 1843. It appeared from this document, that in the year 1840, the quantity of sugar retained for consumption in this country, was 3,764,000 cwt. In one column he found it stated that the average price, according to the returns in the  Gazette s. d. s. d. Gazette, s. d. l., l. l.
 Mr. Thornely  said it was clear that those who had signed the memorial were not of that class that would suffer most. There was the class of wholesale dealers, upon whom a great hardship would be inflicted, and who had paid the full duty upon sugar now in bond upon the faith of an Act of Parliament, which enacted that the existing rate of duties should continue until the 5th of July.
 Mr. Entwisle  said, the hon. Member for Durham had got rid of the urbanity which marked his speech on the Game Laws the other night. He was again himself; and he congratulated the hon. Member, if not the House, on the restoration. The question of the hon. Member for Stockport—if he (Mr. Entwisle) understood it rightly — was, whether ten guineas a ton on Foreign free-labour sugar did not impose a tax in favour of the West Indies to the amount of 2,500,000 l. s., s., s.; Gibson: 471
 Mr. Williams  said the parties who had signed the memorial were principally those
 511
 Mr. W. Williams  observed that if the new rate of duties came into operation so soon, great loss would be entailed on the refiners and others who had large stocks on hand. There was certainly no necessity for the Bill coming into operation before it received the Royal Assent. Unless the right hon. Gentleman consented to allow a drawback upon the sugar in hand, he (Mr. Williams) would move as an Amendment, that the "5th of April" be substituted for the 14th of March.
 Mr. F. Baring  thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer should explain what he meant by the term "quality." If the right hon. Gentleman would state the distinction, he (Mr. Baring) thought it would be a great relief to the trade, for there had been a great deal of uncertainty on the subject.
 Mr. F. Baring  did not think the right hon. Gentleman was proceeding with his experiment upon very clear grounds. As the right hon. Gentleman's predecessor in office, he must be permitted to say, that if the right hon. Gentleman had given the House some little estimate of what he expected from one class of sugars and from another, it would have been more satisfactory. Now, last year he was assured that there would be a very small quantity of white clayed sugar imported. This year the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer made his revenue calculations depend upon this statement, that 5,000 tons of the lower class sugar would come in, and 15,000 of the higher class. On that calculation he depended for his revenue. Thus the right hon. Gentleman assumed that the greater part of the sugar imported would be of the higher class; while the late President of the Board of Trade stated last year, and also, he believed, in the present Session, that the greater part would be of the lower class. Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer
 491 s. d., s. d. s., ad valorem ad valorem
 Sir George Clerk  believed the hon. and learned Member for Bath stood alone in that House, in maintaining that the Colonies, and more particularly their West Indian settlements, were of no value whatever to this country. Instead of answering the hon. and learned Gentleman, therefore, he would prefer addressing his argument to the speech of the hon. Member for Taunton, who held that at least some protective duty was necessary for the prosperity of the West Indian Colonies, and that, however he might advocate the principles of free trade, he was free to admit that, owing to the peculiar position of the West India planters, an exception ought to be made in their favour to the general rule for which he contended. The right hon. Gentleman was, of course, for granting that protection merely in order to ward off the impending ruin which would be sure to fall upon these Colonies if all protection were withdrawn, and if they were compelled to enter into an unlimited competition with other countries. But both the noble Lord and the hon.
 451 s. d. s. l. l., l. s. d., 452 s. s. s. 453
 Mr. Ward  was of opinion that the House would be a Committee of Ways and Means under false pretences, unless it was distinctly stated what part of the proposed supplies went to the Crown, and what part for other purposes.
 Mr. Ward  thought the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House had put a very unfair construction on the speech of the hon. Member for Durham, whose remarks he seemed to suppose were in some measure personal. The hon. Member for Durham believed, in common with many others, that the effect of the protective duty was to put a sum of money into the pockets of those Gentlemen for whose benefit it was continued; and he therefore proposed, as a preferable plan for those persons who were interested in the question—as the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the father of the late President of the Board of Trade (Mr. Gladstone)—that they should draw checks on the Public Treasury for sums proportioned to the extent of their exports from the Colonies, and that the public should be allowed to buy their sugar in the markets of the world. He considered there was no lack of urbanity in that proposal: he thought there was a great deal of truth in it. It would afford the same indemnity to the planter, while the people of this country would be able to buy their sugar in the markets of the world, without being fettered by any absurd distinctions between slave-labour and free-labour produce. He was convinced that no distinction ever could be maintained in the makets of the world, or even in our own markets, between slave-grown and free-grown sugar. But the hon. Member for South Lancashire expressed his conviction, that if all protective duties were immediately removed, sugar would continue as dear, if it were not dearer, than at present. He was quite willing to take the chance of that. It had, in his opinion, been shown most indisputably that the difference between the sugars produced in British Colonies and imported into this country, and the sugars sold in the general markets of the world, had, during the whole of last year, averaged 13 l. 472 l. s.
 Sir J. Graham  said, if there were any real objection to read the Bill at that late hour, he would not press it. At the same time, he must observe, that the Bill differed in no respect, nor did it contain any new principle, as contradistinguished from a Bill of the same nature which he had laid upon the Table of the House at the close of the last Session; and surely hon. Members could not complain that they had not had time to make themselves masters of the provisions and principle of that Bill. The Bill contained the seeds of a saving to the county rates and to the public which was very considerable in its amount. He would not, however, press the measure to a second reading on that occasion.
 Sir J. Graham  proposed to take the Second Reading of this Bill that night, on the understanding that the discussion on the Bill should take place in Committee after the Easter recess.
 Mr. Hogg  was perfectly satisfied with the course now proposed to be pursued by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer. In a Resolution which had been brought before them, the right hon. Gentleman had introduced the word "quality," so that "colour" should not be made the criterion or test. And he hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would define what "quality" was. He (Mr. Hogg) believed that he was correct in supposing that he would define quality to consist of different elements, such as granulation, the saccharine matter, or something to that purpose. With the proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer he was now perfectly satisfied, and he had only to express his acknowledgments to Her Majesty's Government for the attention they had paid to the suggestions which he (Mr. Hogg) had thought it his duty to make. He begged further to state, that the East India and China Association was perfectly satisfied with the measures now proposed by Her Majesty's Government. Those measures removed all the objections which that Association entertained in reference to the proposed Sugar Duties formerly brought under the consideration of the House. Then, with regard to the practicability of working the discriminating duties, they thought, and he (Mr. Hogg) thought, that that ought to be left with Her Majesty's Government, who had had opportunities of communicating with the Custom-house officers, who had given it as their opinion that it was practicable to carry them into operation.
 Mr. Hogg  hardly knew what to think of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose expressing surprise or astonishment that he was satisfied with the proposed classifications as they now stood. He did not know by what standard his hon. Friend measured Parliamentary content. That standard, he apprehended, would be as difficult to ascertain as would the standard and criterion of the discriminating duties. He had made certain objections on a former occasion to the propositions of the Government, and had taken the liberty of offering certain suggestions for the removal of what he considered objectionable in the Government scheme. Her Majesty's Government had been kind enough to adopt and act upon
 495
 Sir R. Peel  was surprised by the observations of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose. The hon. Gentleman thought it desirable that protection should be granted to the West Indian colonics, and withheld from the East. The hon. Gentleman said, that the West Indies were placed under peculiar difficulties with respect to their working population, under which the East Indies did not suffer, and therefore that protection might justly be claimed by the West Indies, but could not with equal justice be claimed by the East. If that were right, then they must revert to the practice under which different rates of duty were applied to East and West Indian produce. He thought that it was almost the unanimous opinion of the House, until he heard the hon. Member for Montrose, that there should be no such distinctive duties in respect to the produce of their own Colonies; and he had not expected to hear any hon. Gentleman now advocate a return to that practice, under which there was a discrimination
 496 497 s. d. s. s. d., s.
 Sir R. Peel  said, it would be better to bring forward that subject at another stage, and not to propose the introduction of words which were contrary to the usual custom of that House. When the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets proposed his Motion for the reduction of the discriminating duties, the hon. Members who were opposed to the passing of the Resolutions in their present shape, might vote for that reduction, and prevent the Colonies and the West India proprietors from receiving any more benefit than that which would arise from a more reduced discriminating duty. It was only wasting time to bring forward the subject now, when a legitimate opportunity of bringing it before the Committee would be necessarily afforded by the Motion of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets.
 Sir R. Peel  hoped the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Colonel Fox) would not divide the Committee, as it was of the utmost importance that there should be no delay in bringing the measure into operation. The memorial which had already been referred to, set forth the most powerful arguments why they should come to an immediate and final settlement of the
 514
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the almost invariable practice in respect to reductions in Customs' Duties was not to allow a drawback. If it were allowed in one case, it was quite clear the principle must be admitted in all, and this would open the door to fraud and lead to great inconvenience. The Government proposed that the
 510
 Sir R. Peel  said, that in the course of last week 3,000 quarters of Foreign corn had been imported at a duty of 20 s. s., l. l. s.,
 Sir R. Peel : I beg to state, in answer to the question of my hon. Friend, in the most explicit manner, that I am not aware of the existence of any such correspondence, and that I believe the report to be as utterly without foundation as any report that was ever invented. I hope that this contradiction may prove a caution to persons out of doors how they put confidence in such stories. I have seen a great many reports as to the undermining ambition of Great Britain; but I have considered that they were propagated rather as a palliation for the conduct of others, than as having any truth in them. I can answer for it that the present Government have had no such correspondence; and as I find no trace of it in any of the offices, I believe that the late Government was equally innocent in the matter. I repeat that the report is utterly destitute of foundation.
 Sir Robert Peel  replied, that clover seed was not mentioned in the new Tariff, nor was it intended to be included in it. With respect to the period at which the removal of the duties would take place on those seeds included in the Tariff, he had considered it advisable that it should be after sowing time, and in the course of the month of June.
 Sir William Clay  said, the speech of the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down was perfectly beside the question before the House. The right hon. Baronet said, if there had been a surplus of sugar produced in their own Colonies beyond the entire consumption of this country, then the differential duty would not cause a tax upon the people of this country equal to the amount estimated by the hon. Member for Stockport. There could be no doubt of that fact; but the argument of his hon. Friend was founded on the supposition that the protective duty would raise the price of sugar. It was not denied that at the period to which the right hon. Baronet referred, when the Colonies produced more sugar than the consumption of this country amounted to, the differential duty of 39 s. 454
 Sir W. Clay  said, that though sugars came from Manilla and from Java, some would come in under the higher, and some under the lower duty. Orders would be sent out for the higher quality article, and therefore the higher duty
 492
 Sir William Clay  said, that the Motion he should propose to the Committee would differ slightly from that of which he had given notice. The Committee having agreed to the first and second Resolutions, had affirmed the principle of classification; and it was not, therefore, competent for him to moot that question a second time, which he should have done by moving his Amendment in its original shape. Preserving, therefore, its principle, he should now move simply, that in lieu of 1 l. s. l. s. d. l. s. d., 498 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d., 499 Gazette s. d.; Gazette, s. d., s. s. s. s. d. s. d. s. d. d. d. 500 s. s. s. s. d. s. d. 501 s. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d., s. d. s. d. l. l. 502 s. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. l. s. s. s. d. 503 504 s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. s. d. l. s., 505
 Viscount Ebrington  said, that to allow the drawback on the sugar in bond, on which the duty had been paid, could not lead to any fraud, or occasion inconvenience.
 Viscount Ebrington  thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer was sufficiently answered by his own Resolutions, for he charged five or six different rates of duty upon sugar refined coming into Great Britain and Ireland; of course, if no refined sugar came in those Resolutions would be inoperative. The Chancellor of the Exchequer proved too much for his own case, for if the price of refined sugar was to be raised to the consumer, what benefit would be derived from the continuance of the Income Tax?
 Lord Howick  thought the question of the hon. Member for Stockport was a very plain one, which had been very clearly stated, and it involved a point which ought to be cleared up. It was capable of being answered aye or no. If he understood the position of the hon. Gentleman it was this—the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed a duty of ten guineas a ton on Colonial sugar as compared with Foreign sugar, and he assumed that Foreign sugar, under that protecting duty, would come into the market and be sold. It followed, therefore, that, if it were not for this protecting duty, the growers of such Foreign sugar could afford to sell it ten guineas a ton cheaper than they actually would do whilst a protecting duty in favour of Colonial sugar to that amount continued. If the Foreign free-grown sugar could be sold in the market at a profit, whilst it paid ten guineas extra duty, he wanted to know why, if that extra duty were removed, it would not equally answer their purpose to sell their sugar to the consumer ten guineas a ton cheaper? They would receive precisely the same amount for it, the only difference being that ten guineas less would go into the Treasury. He understood the point which had been put by the hon. Member for Stockport to be this:—"If Foreign sugar could be sold ten guineas a ton cheaper than Colonial sugar would be under the present arrangement, it was perfectly clear that if Foreign sugar was allowed to come into the market on equal terms with Colonial sugar it would bring down the price of Colonial sugar ten guineas a ton; and it was for the purpose of preventing such a fall upon Colonial sugar, that a protective duty was imposed." He confessed that he was totally at a loss to understand what a protecting duty was for, if it was not for that purpose. If the price of sugar, then, was raised ten guineas a ton—if the Government proposed a protecting duty for that purpose—and if the Chancellor of the Exchequer calculated upon 230,000 tons of British sugar being brought into the market, he wanted to know where the error in arithmetic—where the fallacy was, when the hon. Gentleman
 442 l.,
 Viscount Palmerston : I may take the liberty of answering for the late Government. Neither in 1837, nor in any other year, did the late Government offer
 432 l., J. S. Wortley:
 Viscount Sandon  said, he would answer the question of the hon. Gentleman by asking another. He would ask, in reply, what the amount of the tax was which the noble Lord opposite (Lord John Russell) proposed to levy, for the protection of the agricultural interests when he brought forward his Measure for imposing a fixed duty upon Foreign corn? The noble Lord, he believed, estimated the entire produce of the wheat crop of the country at something about 20,000,000 of quarters, and on what number of millions of quarters in addition did he intend to impose a tax upon the country. He asked that question at the time the measure had been brought forward, but he received no reply; and he now repeated, would hon. Gentlemen opposite consider it a sound argument, if he alleged that the effect of the noble Lord's plan would, if carried out, be to impose a tax of 10,000,000 of money upon the country for the benefit of the landowners? The question of the exact amount which was paid to the West Indian proprietors in the shape of protection, was one which, in his opinion, nobody could answer. The only attempt at answering it which had been at all made, was that of the hon. Member for Stockport himself, and his calculation had been disavowed by every hon. Member who had spoken subsequently on both sides of the House. In fact, the hon. Gentleman appeared to be rather unintelligible even to himself. It must be clear to every one that it was impossible to ascertain what the precise annual amount paid away in protection to the West India interests might be. It could not be denied but that some advantage was given to the Colonial proprietors by this protection. ["Hear."] Hon. Gentlemen sitting in front of the Opposition Benches should not cheer until they found themselves out of the scrape; for were they not themselves all protectionists, with the exception, perhaps, of the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland alone? They ought, therefore, not to suffer themselves to be carried away by the allegation that protection implied a certain amount of taxation upon
 458
 Viscount Sandon  agreed in the policy of announcing the change, and carrying it into effect at an early period; but he was at the same time aware that there were many who did not expect that it would take effect so soon. The retail dealers, he believed, assisted each other; but the wholesale dealers of Liverpool, who had signed the memorial which he had presented to the right hon. Baronet, stated in a petition they had forwarded to him (Viscount Sandon), that they would be great losers unless a drawback were allowed.
 Viscount Sandon  apprehended that all the money proposed to be raised was to go to the use of the Crown.
 Mr. Craven Berkeley  said, he thought he had some reason to complain of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary with regard to the constitution of this Committee. It would be in the recollection of the right hon. Gentleman that during the discussion which ensued on the Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Durham, for the appointment of the Committee, that he told the right hon. Secretary that, in common with a great number of Members on that (the Opposition) side of the House, he was perfectly willing to accede to the appointment of the Committee, provided it was constituted in a fair and impartial manner. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Durham assured him that the Committee should be so constituted. Under these circumstances, it was with considerable surprise that he (Mr. C. Berkeley) had seen on the Votes of that House a Committee named by the hon. Member for Durham, and assented to by the right hon. Gentleman, because he must say that a more unfair or partial Committee he could not conceive to be appointed by that House. It was perfectly true, that since he had first seen the list of the Committee, the names of three Gentlemen had been taken from the Committee, and the names of three others had been substituted. Of the opinions and sentiments of two of those Gentlemen who had been substituted he knew nothing; but he happened to know something of the opinions of the noble Lord the Member for Lynn (Lord George Bentinck), and he must say that he did not think he was a very proper and impartial person to serve on the Committee. He knew that the noble Lord had never acted as a county magistrate—he knew that he had never attended quarter or petty sessions; and the noble Lord knew little, and he believed, cared less, how the affairs of the country were conducted. It was perfectly true that the noble Lord had used his best efforts to put the laws of racing and of the turf upon a just and equitable footing. But the very fact of the noble Lord being fond of racing and of the turf was decisive evidence, as well as the cause, of the implacable hatred he entertained against that innocent little animal, of whose physiological character the hon. Member for Durham gave so graphic a description the other night. And
 624
 Captain Berkeley  begged to state that he thought the hon. Member for Durham had a right to urge the adoption of this Motion. For his part, he felt bound to admit that he was perfectly content with the Committee as proposed, and he was sure they would conduct the investigation with propriety and effect.
 Mr. Craven Berkeley  said, he objected to the appointment of the noble Lord on the Committee, because he considered him favourable to the views of the hon. Member for Durham. He felt bound to press the Question to a division.
 Mr. Craven Berkeley  moved as an Amendment that the name of Lord Viscount Palmerston be substituted for that of Mr. Cavendish.
 Lord John Russell  wished to say a few words, to satisfy the House as to the vote he was about to give; and he felt himself especially called upon to do so, in consequence of the right hon. Gentleman's allusion to what had been said by him in the debate on the Income Tax. This tax might, he conceived, be properly imposed upon various occasions, and for various reasons; in the case, for instance, of its being required in the exigencies of war, and when the country was in great danger. He admitted that that would be a fair occasion for the imposition of the tax, and a fair reason why they should not make an attempt at any modification of it. It would be as reasonable then to decline doing that, as to take a farmer's horses when it was necessary to supply an army on its march through the country. It might then be said, "we cannot now in such an exigency as this, stop to see whose horses ought to be taken." In another case, and for other reasons, the Income Tax might be proposed, as it had been proposed by the right hon. Gentleman in 1842, when he said that there were other taxes pressing very much upon the industry of the country; but that it was hoped, by trying the Income Tax for three years, the industry of the country might be so far recovered, that the Revenue would equal at least that amount which it had reached in former years. But neither of these cases were now made out, when the Income Tax was again proposed. The Income Tax was now proposed as a means of enabling the right hon. Baronet to commute other taxes. If they once took that ground, then he said they were bound to see and consider whether the tax could not be made as just, equal, and as little vexatious, as it was possible to make it. They had no longer to plead a great public exigency. They could not say that they were imposing it
 606 Petruchio Katharine; 607 l. l. l. l. l. l. 608 609
 Mr. Hawes  said, that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Pontefract, who had just sat down, seemed to think that the people of England had consented to the Income Tax, because no one rose strongly to oppose it in that House, and because the Table of that House had not been loaded with Petitions in opposition to it; but he would remind the hon. Gentleman of two or three trifling circumstances attending the imposition of that tax, which seemed to have escaped the hon. Gentleman's recollection. In the first place, the tax was to continue only for three years; and next, they were told that it had been introduced to raise the income of the country to a level with its expenditure, and that trade would in the mean time spring up revivified, which would render its renewal at the end of three years unnecessary. Now, he believed there was no man in that House, he believed there were few in the country, who would not give up a great deal to bring the income up to a level with the expenditure of the country. Well, the tax was now again proposed, with a remission of other taxes; again for three years—and again they were told that the trade of the country
 573 l.; l.; l. l. R. Peel: Chancellor of the Exchequer: l. 574 l. l. l.
 Mr. Hawes  quite understood that statement; and to take the case in the most unfavourable way for his own argument, he would admit the estimated surplus of 1,400,000 l. l. l. 575 l. d. l.; l. l. l. l. l. 576 l. l. l. l.; 577 578
 Mr. C. Buller  said, he mentioned the duties on malt, soap, sugar, tea, tobacco, and spirits, as all pressing on the great mass of the community; but he did not particularize any of them as being most worthy of attention in the first instance. What he meant to say was, that if the Government
 549
 Mr. C. Buller  rose for the purpose of moving the following Amendment:—
 "That the circumstances under which the renewal of the Income Tax is at present proposed, are such as to render it exceedingly improbable that Parliament will have the power of dispensing with its continuance at
 529 530 531 532 533 s. s., s. s. d. s. d.; s. d. s., 534 535 536 537 d. 538 d. d.; d. s. s. d. d. 539 l. l. s. d. s., s. l. s. d. 540 Figaro "Provided," he said, "one says nothing of the Government, or religion, or politics, or morals, or of persons in credit, or of the public amusements, one might print what one liked, subject to the revision of two or three censors." 541 542 543 544
 Mr. C. Villiers  would shortly state the grounds which would induce him to give his vote in favour of the Motion of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Liskeard—that ground being one which had not been much referred to in the course of the present debate—certainly not touched on by the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel)—and not contemplated, he believed, by his hon. Friend the Member for London—viz., that this Income Tax was likely to remain and be permanent. He (Mr. C. Villiers) confidently expected that the tax would be permanent, and for that reason, and chiefly for that reason, he thought the House ought to bind themselves, as his hon. Friend the Member for Liskeard proposed, to see that it should be just and equal in its operation, and at the same time as little odious to the people as possible. He did not object to the tax because it was a direct tax; on the contrary, he thought one of its chief recommendations was, that it was to be imposed for other taxes that were indirect. He preferred direct to indirect taxation; for so far he agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Kendal, that direct taxation, by taking the money directly from the pockets of the people made them more jealous of taxation, while it interfered less with the commerce, industry, and enterprise of the country. He, then, did not object to the Income Tax, because it was a direct tax, but he agreed with what he believed to be the opinion out of doors. The people of this country were not opposed to the imposition of necessary taxes; they were not averse to bearing their fair share of the national burdens, nor were they anxious to risk the national credit; but what they desired to be satisfied of was, that the taxes imposed upon them were necessary and just; and they were disposed to be satisfied with the continuance of the Property Tax, because they believed it was a tax imposed as a substitute for others which affected commerce
 610 l l 611 
 
 The cheap years. The dear years. 
 £ £ 
 1834 36,933,333 1837 44,666,666 
 1835 31,400,000 1838 51,666,666 
 1836 31,800,000 1839 56,533,333 
 £107,133,333 £152,266,465 l. 612
 Mr. Muntz  said, the hon. Gentleman the Member for Stockport had referred to him to confirm a letter he had received from Birmingham, complaining of the operation of the Income Tax. He could not confirm that letter, as he only knew that the writer of it lived at Birmingham; but he was, nevertheless, in the condition fully to corroborate all that had been said by the hon. Member as to the proceedings in respect to that tax, and he might, at the same time, take occasion to inform his (Mr. Muntz's) hon. Colleague, that at a future time he would not find the Income Tax so popular with the people of Birmingham as he seemed to suppose it was. Had he left the House when half of the speech of the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) was spoken, he should have gone away with the impression that the right hon. Baronet intended to vote for the hon. Member for Liskeard's Motion, for he gave the House what he considered the most convincing proof that the tax was to last—if not to eternity, certainly for a very long time; for the right hon. Baronet said if that tax were not continued, they must raise three millions of taxes in other ways. If that was not a convincing proof that the tax was intended to be permanent, he did not know what would convince. When the right hon. Gentleman first introduced the subject this year, he said he hoped at the end of three years they would be able to do without the tax—that the elasticity of the resources of the country was such that he had no doubt that the Revenue would recover itself within that time, and that we might then dispense with the further continuance of the Income Tax. Now, he confessed that whenever he heard a Prime Minister or a Chancellor of the Exchequer
 613 614
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he should feel it his duty very briefly to state the reasons which induced him to consider that it would not be consistent with justice on his part to accede to the proposal of his hon. Friend. That proposal was, that farm-tenants should be permitted, in years in which their profits might not have amounted to the proportion of rent to which they were assessed, to make an appeal to the Commissioners, and to obtain an abatement of the tax. Now it appeared to him that that arrangement would be essentially unjust. The House would bear in mind the circumstances under which the assessment of tenants to the Income Tax had been fixed. It had been stated when that tax had been originally imposed, and it had been generally acknowledged, that those persons who were engaged in the fanning of land were generally a class who would find it extremely difficult to keep such books of accounts as would be necessary, if their incomes were to be tested in the same manner as the incomes of persons engaged in trade; and it had, therefore, been thought advisable to fix a specific amount of rent as the basis of the assessment
 620
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just concluded his address, had commenced by observing that there was, both in the House and out of doors, a degree of doubt and an absence of determination and firmness upon the subject of the Income Tax, for which he could not account; and which he thought in particular unbecoming on the part of
 545 546 547 C. Buller 548 s. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : The right hon. and hon. Gentlemen sitting around him were of opinion with him that the hon. Gentlemen had particularly insisted on the repeal of the duties on tobacco and spirits, as being most severely felt by the poorer classes. The hon. Gentleman had quoted largely from a Report drawn up by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume); but that was merely the draft of a Report which had never been considered by the Committee. The Report certainly recommended that in consequence of the pressure upon the particular article referred to, it was most advisable to have the tax repealed whenever the state of the Revenue would allow of such a sacrifice; but on this subject he would only detain the House farther by observing, that if his right hon. Friend had really adopted the course which the hon. Gentleman now recommended, and had proposed to the House the reduction of the duties upon tobacco and spirits, the hon. Gentleman would probably be the very first to stand up and raise an outcry against the cause which he now advocated. He would have told them that these were obnoxious articles, on which the highest amount of duties that could be imposed ought to be levied. He would have complained that they were pandering to the vices of the people, instead of adding to their comforts; and he would then have in favour of his declamation against the Government more of principle than he had displayed in his Motion on that evening. He would admit with the hon. Gentleman, that in selecting between different articles of revenue, it was important carefully to consider the effects which a repeal of the duties would have upon the public, and to reduce the tax on that by which the greatest amount of benefit would be obtained; but he denied that the hon. Gentleman had correctly stated the principle upon which relief was given. It was not wholly by the amount of duty withdrawn that that benefit was conferred. In addition to the actual burden removed, there were other modes by which the public were benefited by repeal of taxation. The hon. Gentleman spoke of the reduction of duty on various articles in the Tariff. In fact, he referred to every reduction that was proposed to be made. But he neglected to take into account the new exertion which
 550 551 552 553
 Mr. Warburton  said, that the proposition for making 150 l. l. l. 568 l. l.
 Mr. Bright  moved to nominate the Select Committee on the Game Laws; Mr. Bright, Mr. Burroughes, Lord George Bentinck, Mr. Milner Gibson, Mr. Bouverie, Mr. Cripps, Viscount Clive, Mr. William Mackenzie, Mr. Villiers, Mr. Bankes, Mr. Etwall, Mr. Grantley
 623
 Mr. Bright  said, the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Craven Berkeley) had made two statements which he was desirous of noticing; first, he said that there were six Members of the Anti-Corn Law League on the Committee. Now, he (Mr. Bright) had an accurate knowledge of those Gentlemen who were connected with that Association; and he found only four on the Committee who had ever been known in any way to have any thing to do with that Association; and there were only three who were supposed to be intimately connected with it. The hon. Gentleman, in the next place, had objected to the nomination of the noble Lord opposite (Lord George Bentinck), and his objection was founded on certain grounds, the validity of which his (Mr. Bright's) very little knowledge of the noble Lord did not qualify him to judge of; but it was curious enough that he found a Notice entered on the Books, dated March 3, in these words—
 "On nominating the Committee upon the Game Laws, to move to leave out Mr. Bouverie, Mr. Trelawny, Viscount Masham, and Mr. George Cavendish, and insert Viscount Palmerston, Mr. Gregory, Lord George Bentinck, and Captain Rous." 628
 Mr. Hume  said, the propositions advanced by his hon. Friend (Mr. C. Buller) and his hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth, contained two questions, which he considered were distinct, and ought to be kept separate. His hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth had entered a little into the financial statement of the year, which he (Mr. Hume) thought ought not to be meddled with on the present occasion. The time would come when that question would be more properly discussed, because the right hon. Baronet had told the House that he did not want the Income Tax to be reimposed for any financial purposes of the year; and he had shown that, taking into account the arrears of Income Tax which would be due to April, 1846, he would have a surplus of 1,400,000 l. 580 l. l., l. ., 581 582 l. l. l. 583
 Mr. Cobden  said, that there was a very good reason why there had been no petitions and no public meetings against the Income Tax. It was because the Income Tax had been mixed up with various commercial projects. There was, for instance, the Sugar Duty; and up to this time the people did not know what Ministers were doing with the Sugar Duty. The people, however, would soon find out what was their plan of a Sugar Duty. They would soon learn that it was as bad and bitter as the Income Tax. When the country understood that, their feelings would be very different from what they were at present. They did not understand it now, and they would not understand it this week or the next. At the end of the year the public would be able to calculate what was the cost of their monopoly sugar. He could say that a very great misapprehension existed as to the feeling about the Income Tax. There was a very quiet and a very honest indignation as to Schedule D. He was not one who thought that there was generally an evasion of the Income Tax. As far as the north of England was concerned, he believed that there was a great deal more paid than ought to be paid. He alluded particularly to Birmingham, and for the edification of the hon. Member for that town, he would read an extract of a letter he had received from it. In this letter the writer stated
 602 603 Laughter. d. l. l. 604 s. 605
 Mr. M. Milnes  was surprised at the statements made by the hon. Member for Kendal. He thought it was an axiom of political economy that, having regard to the circumstances of the country, it was absolutely impossible to raise the necessary amount of revenue by any system of direct taxation. He believed that that point had been fully established; and that the question for them then, or at any other time, to consider was, whether it were possible that all the revenue could be raised by a system of direct taxation,
 569 570 571 572
 Mr. Sheil : The right hon. Baronet has asked what tax we would recommend him to take off. I venture to suggest a tax
 598 l., l. l. l. 599 600 l. 601 Patris dictum sapiens temeritas filii condemnavit.
 Mr. Spooner  did not agree with what had fallen from the hon. Member for Lambeth, nor could he concur in the course he had taken. It was not, he considered, a wise or a prudent course to make general charges against the tax; and he thought, if any charges were preferred, they should be of a distinct and specific nature. He agreed with the hon. Member for the University of Oxford, that it was unjust to tax a man who had only a life interest at the same rate as a man who had a perpetuity; and he fully concurred in the modification proposed by the hon. Baronet three years previously, for making 150 l. 579
 Sir J. Graham  was sorry that the hon. Gentleman should conceive he had any reason to complain of his (Sir J. Graham's) conduct with regard to the formation of this Committee. He had stated both in public and private, that he thought it of
 625 626 627
 Sir R. H. Inglis  acknowledged the ingenuity by which the noble Lord's speeches were always distinguished, whatever he might think of the consistency with which he denounced the tax as most odious and oppressive, and then protested that he would vote for it. Now, the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard asked no
 562 563 564 l. l. l. l. 565 d., d., d. l. materiel 566 l., l. l., l. l. l. l., l. l. 567
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, before I address myself to the particular Motion which the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Liskeard has brought under the consideration of the House, I wish to notice a few of the observations that have been made in the course of this evening's discussion upon points not immediately connected with the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman. And first, as to the speech of the hon. Member for Lambeth, whom I am sorry not to see in his place. It appears to me from that speech that the hon. Gentleman did not very well understand the financial statement which I made on a former evening. The hon. Gentleman objects to the imposition of the Income Tax, that there is no necessity for it, because he is of opinion that I showed that there would be such a surplus of income over expenditure as would enable us to provide for the service of the year, and dispense with the Income Tax altogether; and the hon. Gentleman says I calculated that on the 5th of April, 1846, there would be a surplus revenue of 1,400,000 l. Hawes 584 ., l. Member; l.; l. l. l. l., l.; l. l., l. l. 585 l. Hawes: l. 586 l. l. l. l. l. s. l. s. l. s. l. l. s. l. s. 587 l., l. 588 l. l. l., l., C. Buller: l. 589 l. l. l. d. 590 l. l. 591 l. l. 592 l. 593 l. d., 594 l. 595 F. Baring: 596 l., l., 597
 Sir R. Peel : Would it not be better, before you proceed, that I should just state what I did say? I said that the revenue derived from corn last year was rather more (I think) than 1,050,000 l. l.,
 Mr. W. Miles , according to notice, moved to add the following clause:—
 "And be it Enacted, That from, and after the passing of this Act, it shall be lawful for all persons assessed under Schedule B, should they feel themselves aggrieved by such assessment, to appeal to the Commissioners for General Purposes, ten days' notice thereof in writing being given to the Assessor or Surveyor of the district in which the Property upon which he is assessed is situate; and the said Commissioners are hereby empowered to hear and determine such appeal, under the like rules and
 618 l. 619 l. l.
 Viscount Howick  observed, that from the language of the right hon. Gentleman, and from the manner in which Her Majesty's Government dealt with the subject, they held out to the House and the country very little hope of getting rid of the tax at the end of three years. He thought it must have been perfectly obvious to every Gentleman who had listened to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, that he cautiously avoided going into any detail as to his grounds for supposing that there would be that great increase in the Revenue, on which alone it was obvious that he grounded his hope of being enabled to get rid of this tax. All that the right hon. Gentleman said was, that if they took off one tax it was generally followed by an increase in others; but the illustration on which he chiefly rested for this opinion was very inconclusive. The right hon. Gentleman pointed to the year 1830, and to the reductions which he then made in taxation. Now, if he were not greatly mistaken, the circumstances of that time were entirely different from those of the present time. In the first place, as to the tax on beer, which had been described by the Chancellor of the Exchequer as having been altogether taken off, and not merely reduced from a before excessive amount, he must observe, that although nominally it was an entire removal of taxation from a particular article, it was not so actually. He considered that when the right hon. Gentleman removed the duty on beer, he removed the worst part of the duty on the article. The tax on malt and that on beer were so connected, and the total amount was so great, that it was natural to suppose the removal of the beer duty would lead to an increase of revenue derived from malt; and above all as the duty was partial and unequal, and as it only fell on a portion of the whole quantity of beer brewed, the duty on malt immediately began to
 554 555 l. l. l. 556 557 558 559 560 l. 561
 Mr. Gladstone  objected to the Amendment. He was of opinion, that the difficulties which had been alluded to by different hon. Members in the course of the debate might very easily be obviated, if the Private Committees would exercise due caution and discretion. They might, for example, in the first place, not sanction any line where there was not proof of a sufficient traffic existing to induce the company to work the railway for the sake of profit. Another thing which he should suggest to Private Committees would be, to guard and watch very particularly all applications for the amalgamation of companies, or for giving one company control over the line of another company. And again, if a company applied for new branches he should take care to provide that those branches should be worked as long as the main line was worked. He did not see, however, how the proposed object could be carried into
 638
 Colonel Wood  rose to protest against two epithets which the hon. Member for Liskeard had applied to Captain Fitzroy, who was a distant connexion of his (Colonel Wood's), and he was sure that, on reflection, the hon. Member would not apply to a brave and gallant officer the words "foolish and incompetent." He (Colonel Wood) could make allowances for the excitement of a debate; but be was sure that on reflection the hon. Member for Liskeard would not persist in applying the words "foolish and incompetent" to a brave officer, at least without hearing all the circumstances. He trusted that the House would give him leave to say that Captain Fitzroy had been engaged in the service of his country for a considerable portion of his life, and that he had been five years absent on a dangerous survey of the coast of South America, and that he had brought his little vessel, at great pecuniary cost to himself, round the world, and had conducted the survey with great skill and professional ability. During that voyage, he touched at the Colony of which he is at present the Governor, and he relinquished valuable situations in order to fill the office to which he was appointed, he (Colonel Wood) believed, at the solicitation of the New Zealand Company. ["No, no."] At all events, he was solicited to accept the appointment by the Colonial Secretary. He went out to New Zealand to perform
 673
 Sir W. James  had no intention of taking a part in the discussion, but he felt it his duty to make an observation upon the indecorous language which had been applied to Captain Fitzroy, a near relation of his. The hon. Member for Liskeard ought to recollect that Captain Fitzroy was absent; and all the House would recollect that the charges which were made against him were made upon imperfect information. The hon. Gentleman opposite began his speech by an important admission, namely, that nine-tenths of all the information which had been brought forward in support of those charges had been obtained from newspapers. He (Sir W. James) therefore hoped, that when the speech of the hon. Member for Liskeard went forth to the public, it would go forth with this additional fact — that it was made upon newspaper information, and was a newspaper speech. Some of the expressions which had been used in reference to Captain Fitzroy were of a most extraordinary character. What did the hon. Member for Liskeard mean, by saying that Captain Fitzroy got rid of all the decencies and courtesies of life? Would the hon. Member aver that if Captain Fitzroy were present? Would the hon. Member bring forward any one fact to bear out that statement? The only thing which had been brought forward as a support of that charge was, a statement that he told a gentleman that a certain statement he made was not true. He admitted, certainly, if the gentleman to whom this was said was a respectable person, that it might be considered somewhat harsh language; but then, perhaps, Captain Fitzroy had good grounds for his observation. But he hardly thought the hon. Member meant seriously to bring forward such a circumstance, in order to vindicate his assertion that Cap-
 674 675
 An hon. Member  could bear testimony to the high integrity and amiable qualities of Captain Fitzroy; but he said that, from the information derived from private letters, he was afraid the conduct of the gallant officer had not been all that his friends could wish. He was nearly related to Mr. Dillon, whose name had been mentioned by the hon. Member for Liskeard; and he was enabled to say, from the information which he had received, that the conduct of Captain Fitzroy to Mr. Dillon had been, he would not say ungentle-manlike, but it was not of that character which is generally adopted between gentlemen. It was quite true that Captain Fitzroy said he would not believe the statement of Mr. Dillon, to the effect that he did not write letters in a newspaper.
 General Johnson  said: If the hon. Member for Rochdale divided the House on the Motion, he would vote in its favour. He was convinced that the feelings of the people of this country had been very materially changed by the Poor Law; and the longer it was continued, oppressive as it was in its operation, the more extensive would be the evils it produced. It could not be denied that the New Poor Law had failed to effect every object for which it was intended. Had it increased the rate of wages?—had it improved the condition of the labourer?—had it raised the morality of the country?—had it reduced the amount of rates? He was not aware that it had benefited any one, except the officers of the Unions, who absorbed a very considerable portion of the money which ought to be applied to the relief of the poor. He thought it must be evident to the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham), that whatever evils existed under the old law, the New Poor Law had effected no improvement; and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman and his Colleagues would turn their attention to the subject, and remove the administration of the Poor Law from the rule of the Commissioners. The law was daily becoming more unpopular mong all classes; it had long been obnaoxiousto the poor, and now it was becoming equally obnoxious to the ratepayers themselves. He hoped some alteration might be made which would reconcile the poor to the operation of the law.
 Mr. F. Maule  said, that no doubt his hon. Friend would withdraw his Amendment if the noble Lord would give a promise to reconsider the clause.
 Mr. F. Maule  said, that lines had been made without the slightest intention on the part of the promoters that they ever should be worked. Suppose an existing trunk line of some length: a new company proposed to make certain new and shorter lines from, town to town, which if carried would materially interfere with the traffic of the main line. Then the old company seeing this also started sundry new branches, simply to compete with the other new ones, and if they succeeded in beating the new lines out of the field that was all they wanted, and they did not care even to construct their own new lines.
 Mr. F. Maule  thought that the case was completely met by the Railway Police Act, which was passed a Session or two ago; and in conformity with which a railway company was compelled, on certain demands being made, to appoint a police force to protect the district.
 Mr. F. Maule  said, it appeared to him that this clause would act injuriously to the public, and in this way:—Suppose a railway going through a high hill; if they found no stone or other valuable material there, they would make a tunnel through it, which would not much deface the property; but if it contained valuable stone for their bridges and aqueducts, they would in all probability make an immense open cutting, instead of a tunnel, in order to get at the stone, to use "in the construction of their works." That would quite destroy the appearance of the ground, and ought, in his opinion, to be guarded against.
 Colonel Rice Trevor  said, that the hon. Member for Cockermouth had stated certain complaints against the Colonial Office—with those he had nothing to do, the hon. Gentleman had also complained that the welfare of the Colony of New Zealand was affected by the conduct of the officer who now administered the government of that island, and added that the Governor had managed to make himself disliked by every portion of the colonists. He had no objection to any Gentleman in that House making any observations which he thought proper, for the public advantage, on the conduct of any public servant of the Crown; but when the hon. Gentleman opposite stated that he would not go into the whole question, yet went far enough into it to convey an imputation, without making any direct accusation, he thought it rather hard. As the matter was to be brought forward at a future time, when the whole subject would be before the House, it would have been better if the discussion of it had been postponed until that occasion, when they should have all the details before them, than that it should have been brought forward in the unsatisfactory manner which it had been to-night. With respect to the lamentable affair at Wairau, an event it was impossible to read or hear of without pain, it had been stated by the hon. Member opposite that Captain Fitzroy had been satisfied with hearing the statements of those natives who had been engaged in the attack, and that, without further inquiry, he formed his conclusion on that evidence. This was not so; he first heard the Europeans, and then the natives, and then he formed and declared his judgment. It was not a little singular, however, with respect to that circumstance, that Captain Fitzroy, who had an opportunity of examining the case upon the spot, had come to the same decision as Lord Stanley upon that subject, after a perusal of the despatches from New Zealand. That appeared to him to be a very striking illustration of the correctness of the conclusion to which Captain Fitzroy had come, namely, that two parties, separated by so great a distance, one having an opportunity of inquiring on the spot, and the other forming his opinion from the despatches, should so perfectly coincide in their conclusion
 671 Buller: 672
 Lord G. Somerset  asked the Committee seriously to consider what would be the effect of acceding to the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman. If they said that the company must take every person who should offer himself upon the line, they must be prepared to say that if a million of passengers wanted to go on the line, the railway company was bound to carry them all. He certainly conceived, if it were intended to secure the rights of the public by a peremptory clause of this sort, that this was neither comprehensive
 637
 Lord G. Somerset  did not see what good end would be served by the insertion of the proposed words. It was not at all likely that a number of men would combine to make a railway simply for the pleasure of making a railway. Beyond a doubt profit was their ultimate end, and they could not hope to make any profits unless they carried passengers and goods.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that he had already given his best attention to the subject, and he did not, see what else he could do with it. He would prefer dividing, if the hon. Gentleman persisted in having a division, in order that the Committee might decide upon it at once.
 Lord G. Somerset  did not think that the case which the right hon. Gentleman had made out was one of great hardship; because it was quite clear, by other clauses of the Bill, that if the company took stone, or anything else from the land, they must pay for it.
 Lord G. Somerset , before discussing the matter more in detail, would examine the Act to which the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. F. Maule) had referred, and which he believed would quite meet the case.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, the subject had not escaped his attention; but he was not able to see how properly to carry it out, and he had on the whole thought it would not be advisable to introduce any clause on the subject; but he was open to suggestions from any hon. Member.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, if the Committee would allow the clause to pass as it then was, he would look at it again, and would take care that it should not convey more than it was intended to do. The intention simply was to reserve to all parties the right to the minerals under their land.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, he trusted that every word and every line in these clauses might not be made the subject of discussion, as they had hitherto been. Unless he had the confidence of the House, he must at once give them up altogether, for they would not be enabled to pass them before Easter, and then the main object for which they were intended would be utterly defeated. He did not say this for his own convenience at all; but he did feel that it was quite useless for them to meet there every morning, if the Bills should not pass before Easter. He did not, of course, wish to put a stop to the discussion of any principle; but that every clause should be discussed, word byword, did appear to him to be quite unnecessary. He should be governed in the course that he should hereafter pursue by what should occur that morning.
 Lord G. Somerset  stated, that he had prepared an Amendment, which he proposed to insert in the place of that clause, and which, he trusted, would meet the views of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Cockermouth, who at their previous sitting had recommended
 634 "If the railway shall cross any highway other than a public carriage-road, the company shall, at its own expense, and at all times, maintain convenient ascents and descents, and other convenient approaches, with handrails and other fences, and shall, if it be a bridleway, make and maintain good and sufficient gates; or, if a footway, good and sufficient gates or stiles."
 Mr. C. Buller  observed, that the hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies was exceedingly indignant about matters which were not before the House; and at the same time very indifferent with respect to the matter which actually was under the consideration of the House. He certainly considered it perfectly fair for any hon. Gentleman who had complaints to make on matters connected with the Colonies to bring forward his complaints in whatever manner he thought most suitable. The noble Secretary for the Colonies, it was said, had been annoyed by the comments upon his proceedings made by the press. It was by no means astonishing that the noble Lord should be annoyed at them. As some consolation, he might rest assured that full opportunity would be given to
 659 660 661 662 l.; l.; 663 s. d. s. s. l., l. s. s. d. d. s. s. d. d. s. s. s. l. 664 "Messrs. Spicer, M'Carthy, and myself, accordingly called on Mr. Beckham (the magistrate), and after being detained a quarter of an hour outside his door, he made his appearance. When I informed him of the desire of the inhabitants to place themselves under his command, and requested him to appoint a place of meeting, he replied, we need not alarm ourselves as he had arranged everything, and that the police would do their duty. I then asked him how it was the police had permitted the depredations already committed? We received for answer, that we must submit to them until he had force sufficient to protect us. In reply, we stated that, if he would yield to the request of the inhabitants, he would find that there would be force sufficient to repel any further aggressions on the part of the natives; that it was not our ambition to commence an affray, but to show the natives that, although we had permitted them to proceed thus far, we were determined to put a stop to any further acts of violence; and that, if he (Mr. Beckham) did not choose to assemble the inhabitants, they would meet and appoint some person to act in his place. He told us that he would put us down by force. We informed him we had no wish to infringe the laws of our country, but that self-preservation was the first law of nature, and we would no longer quietly submit to the in-
 665 "At the conclusion a portion was sent towards the flagstaff, to cut it down; the remaining, as a covering party, proceeding by another road to Waihihi, both roads meeting in one after passing the flagstaff. Parties of natives were stationed on the tops of the different hills as outposts. Mr. Beckham was, during this time, standing within 100 yards of the Custom-house. Mr. Potter and I followed the natives to the flagstaff, and asked them why they wished to cut it down; some said, there had been no payment given for the land; others, that it prevented the ships from coming in. On our arrival, the natives proceeded to work, and I saw the honour of my country laid low, without any attempt to prevent it. The ropes the natives took, and the staff and yard were cut into pieces. A demand was made for fire, and Mr. Tapper went to his house and got some. When the whole was over and the natives gone, Mr. Beckham and a few of the inhabitants arrived. The natives met on an opposite hill, commenced a war-dance, discharged their muskets, retired to their canoes, and left for the other shore." 666 l. l. s., s. 667 668 l. l. l.; 669 670
 Mr. C. Buller : The letter of the 12th of May contained a promise, and what he wanted to know was, what instructions had been given to fulfil the promise so contained in the letter of the 12th of May? What had been done to fulfil the promise therein made to the Company?
 Mr. C. Buller  said, that he was not anxious to get into any discussion on what he really must call such a wretched verbal distinction as had been brought forward on that occasion. The hon. Gentleman who had just taken his seat, said that there had been no agreement between the two parties. Now, he did not care very much what he chose to call it, but this was what he wanted to ascertain. On the 8th of May, 1843, Mr. Somes wrote to Lord Stanley, and made certain proposals. In May, 1843, the Company, after much discussion with Lord Stanley, sent a formal proposal of the terms on which they would make their contract. In the letter convey-
 691 "For the purpose of effectually settling the question of the Company's title, and of quieting the minds of their purchasers, they suggest that your Lordship should forthwith direct his Excellency to make to the Company a conditional grant of the lands selected by their agents; the Company obtaining within the district so selected the whole title which the Crown may have the power to grant; and having the option, in the event of prior claims being set up, of either excluding from the selected lands such portions as may appear to be subject to such prior claims, and in that case receiving a corresponding number of acres in lieu; or of including such portions, subject to the prior title, but obtaining from the Crown, in respect of them, the exclusive right of preemption enjoyed by the Crown, the Governor and Council being instructed, as soon as practicable, to establish some general rule for defining native titles, and settling the claims to land, and to do their best to aid the agents of the Company in effecting the necessary arrangements with the natives, either for the purchase of lands belonging to them, but unimproved, or for making on the part of the Company equitable compensation for the original value of land which may have been occupied by themselves or their settlers, without sufficient title, but on which they may have effected improvements." "Lord Stanley directs me to state his assent to these proposals, and to intimate further, that he will be prepared to issue to the Governor of New Zealand instructions to the effect proposed in your letter for effectually settling the question of the Company's title to land in that Colony." G. W. Hope: 692 G. W. Hope: 693
 Colonel Sibthorp  supported the Motion. He had always considered this a most oppressive law, and interfering unnecessarily with the rights of the poor. He
 721
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that to speak of compensation in such a case as this was all a farce. No doubt the Legislature would next allow these marauding engineers not only to go into a gentleman's cellar and tilt his wine, but actually to run away with the bottles.
 Mr. Darby  could hardly conceive the possibility of a company undertaking to make a tunnel, if a cutting would by any means answer the purpose; for every one knew that the expense of tunnelling was much greater than that of excavating, under ordinary circumstances. He regarded the clause as a safeguard to the landowner; who was, by it, entitled to any minerals found under the soil, even after he had unwittingly sold it to the company. He suggested, however, that the words "carried away" should be omitted, because the company might choose to carry a whole mine away.
 Mr. Darby  put the case of a railway made without being intended ever to be worked, or of a railway which was not remunerating the company—what would be the effect if, in such a case, a clause was inserted in this Consolidation Bill, compelling the company to work that line? Why, the public would be in danger of having the line worked when it was in a state of very imperfect repair; instead, therefore, of advantage accruing to the public from the adoption of the Amendment, he contended that very great danger both to life and limb would be the result.
 Mr. G. W. Hope : The hon. Gentleman asked what had been done? The course was, that the Company's agents were to select the portions of ground of which they were to obtain a grant. It was not for the Governor to make a conditional grant, without application to him for that purpose. After a great deal of discussion, the compensation proposed had been accepted.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  was afraid he must trust to the indulgence of the House while he was entering his protest against the course which had been followed by the hon. and learned Member for Cockermouth. He must protest most strongly against the course which he had pursued, even whilst he admitted that it was most important to have the information which was sought for produced. The hon. and learned Member for Cockermouth must have known very well that this information was ready to be given when it was asked for. The hon. Member must have known that he had only to move for the production of these Papers, when they would be laid before him. His astonishment and surprise were great to hear the hon. and learned Member utter such a speech in seconding the Motion for this information, while the hon. Member at the same time postponed another Motion the hon. Member had to make upon the same subject, to some future time. It had suited the hon. and learned Member's purpose to pursue this course, and to state that he would bring forward his Motion on this subject by bits. The hon. Member said that he would not raise the general question at present. Now, whether the
 653
 Mr. Hope : The hon. and learned Member now took the more convenient course of stating merely that what he had said had been alleged against the Government; but the hon. Member had given his own belief in such allegations, and had left it to the House to draw their own inferences. He complained of such a course as this, because be thought the charge should not be brought forward unless the hon. Member was prepared to substantiate it. A full inquiry was made last Session into this question, and the whole evidence respecting it had now been before the country for months. Moreover, these charges had been most industriously published throughout the country. He believed it was well known that they had been circulated by the authority of the New Zealand Company. The  Spectator 654 655 ex-parte ex-parte 656 657 s. 658 s.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  rose to move the Amendment of which he had given notice. He would not trouble the House with any observations whatever, but for the observations which fell from the hon. Gentleman the Member for Guildford. It was not his intention to go into the question at large. It was but fair to state what the question was. What was the case as to which it was stated that the Company were under a deception? The fact was, that what was alleged by the Company to be an agreement, was wholly denied by the Colonial Office to have any such character attached to it. The Company, it should be recollected, had bought lands from the natives in the island of New Zealand, and had sent upwards of 2,000 settlers into it before they ever applied to the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) then at the head of the Colonial Department on the subject in the year 1840. The question now was, whether that noble Lord had undertaken to find the Company land, or to make them compensation only, or then to confirm their previous purchases. The hon. Gentleman read an extract from a communication sent by the Company to the Colonial Office, dated Dec. 21, 1842, as follows:—
 "The Company asks Her Majesty's Government to interpose in the manner promised in Mr. Vernon Smith's letter of 28th May, 1841, and whatever may be the present state of the Commissioner's proceedings, or his ultimate decision, to do that which, without impugning his authority, or contravening any existing ordinance, would at once take the Company's claims out of his jurisdiction; and that is, forthwith to instruct the Governor of New Zealand to make to the Company a legal grant of the amount of land awarded by Mr. Pennington, in whatever spot within the district claimed by the Company in 1840, we
 689 "We did not believe that even the Royal power of making Treaties could establish, in the eye of our Courts, such a fiction as a native law of real property in New Zealand. We always have had very serious doubts whether the Treaty of Waitangi, made with naked savages by a consul invested with no plenipotentiary powers, without ratification by the Crown, could be treated by lawyers as anything but a praiseworthy device for amusing and pacifying savages for the moment. But we thought it most probable that, whenever possession of New Zealand should be actually obtained by Her Majesty, the view hastily adopted by Lord Normanby would be found impracticable, and abandoned." 690
 Mr. G. W. Hope : The instructions given were given in the words of the letter of the 12th of May.
 Mr. Aglionby  said that the hon. Member had misunderstood and misquoted two of his expressions. What he said was, that the hon. Member and others took an extraordinary mode of making a matter known to the public through the medium of the Colonial Office. It was also said that he had threatened repeated Motions for Papers in order to hang discussions upon them. What he stated was, that he had prepared Notices of Motion, but withheld them because they applied to the Company's affairs exclusively, and therefore he did not wish to mix them up with other matters. He had said that as soon as he could, after the public business allowed him, he would put the Notice on the Paper.
 Mr. Aglionby : No, I did not say any such thing. What I stated, was only that it had been alleged over and over again that such conduct had been pursued by the Government. I have merely stated what had been alleged against the Government, and what I believe could be proved before a Committee.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that although he seconded the Motion, he would not oppose the Amendment, especially as the hon. Gentleman the Member for Dartmouth, who moved the Resolution, had assented to it. He should have another opportu-
 694
 Mr. Aglionby  said, in seconding the Motion of his hon. Friend, it was not his intention to offer any remarks respecting the general question to which the Motion might give rise. In the observations with which he would presume to trespass on the House—and he should make them with considerable diffidence—his principal object would be to guard against any statements which might be made, either in that House or among the public out of doors, respecting the intention of the supporters of the Motion, to enter on that occasion into the whole question between the New Zealand Company and Her Majesty's Government. He believed that a notion of such an intention being entertained was generally prevalent, and he was stengthened in that belief by the inquiries which had been made of him by several hon. Members during the evening. But it was not at all the intention of the hon. Member for Dartmouth (Mr. Somes), and it certainly was not his intention, then to raise any discussion on a question which would probably come before the House on some future occasion. Hon. Gentlemen were well aware from the report of the Select Committee of last year, and the public at large were aware, through the usual organs of information to which they had access, of the allegations put forward on behalf of the Company and of the Colony. These allegations had been pub-
 646 647 l., s. "The Governor is not empowered to pass
 648 ex officio s. 649 650 651 ex-parte 652 l. l.,
 Mr. Aglionby  suggested, that a Standing Order, requiring Private Committees to attend carefully to this matter, and to report to the House upon it in every case, might be found to answer the purpose.
 Mr. Aglionby  should vote for the Amendment, to put an end to the scheming and jobbing intentions with which railways were often started.
 Mr. Labouchere  wished to inform the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury of a circumstance which had occurred at the morning sitting. He alluded to the Sugar Duties Bill having been read a first time, and though he did not believe there would be the smallest disposition evinced in the House to obstruct the progress of that Bill—and certainly none whatever to retard it in its last stage—still he thought it ought to be an understood rule in the House that no Money Bill should be passed through any stage at the early sittings without special notice of its introduction being given in the first instance. The right hon. Baronet would perhaps have the goodness to state to the House his views of this matter, as it would be most desirable to have it understood whether the usual course was in future to be departed from or not. He could see no difficulty in having the Sugar Duties Bill then read a first time, instead of at the twelve o'clock sitting.
 Mr. Bright  said, he was a ratepayer of the parish, and was acquainted with the circumstances under which this memorial had been raised. He could bear the fullest testimony to what had been said by the hon. Member for Rochdale, that there was a common dislike to the introduction of the New Poor Law. The right hon. Baronet said quite truly that there was no Poor Law in operation there, save the general law for the relief of the poor, and that law was in abeyance at this time; ninety-nine persons out of every one hundred in that parish were more or less hostile to the introduction of the law: and more than that, there was a general feeling among those who paid the rates, that the interests of the poor and of the ratepayers had been very well and wisely attended to by the vestries under which the old law was carried out. He said this with perfect impartiality, for he was one of fourteen who did not sign the petition presented to the House, and he had not in any way encouraged the opposition to the law. But he was bound to say, that among all classes of the people there was but one feeling with regard to its introduction; all had a very excusable attachment to the old forms of local government and a dislike to the government of the Commissioners. They
 720
 Mr. Somes  said, he had given notice of a Motion on the subject of New Zealand, which he would beg leave simply to move for the adoption of the House, without entering into any discussion upon it for the present. The Motion was as follows:—
 645 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, that She will be graciously pleased to give directions that there be laid before this House, Copies of all Correspondence between the Colonial Office and the Governor of New Zealand, respecting the issue of Debentures and the rendering them a legal tender: Of all Correspondence between the same respecting the Taxes proposed in the Legislative Council of that Colony: Of all Correspondence between the same respecting recent outrages by the natives in the Bay of Islands, and the abolition of the Custom-house of that district: Of all Correspondence respecting the measures taken by the Governor of New Zealand to fulfil Lord Stanley's agreement of 12th of May, 1843, respecting the grant of a conditional title to the lands of the New Zealand Company: Of all Correspondence respecting the disallowance by the Governor of New Zealand of any awards made by the Commissioner of Land Claims respecting the Company's lands: Of all Correspondence relating to a Proclamation issued by the Governor of New Zealand, allowing the sale of lands by the natives at a less price than that fixed by the Act of 5th and 6th Vice. 36."
 Mr. Borthwick  would not detain the House longer than to state his reasons for voting for the Motion of the hon. Member for Rochdale. The right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) had said tonight—what he was in the habit of telling them when questions of this nature were under discussion—that, after all the labour and attention devoted to the subject by the hon. Member for Rochdale, he had not said anything new. He would admit that the speeches of the right hon. Baro-
 722
 Mr. Mangles  said, it would be great presumption in him to attempt to answer any statement or speech made by the right hon. Gentleman opposite; but he had a strong reliance on the justice of the case and on the justice of the House, and with their kind indulgence, therefore, he would address them on the subject now under
 684 685 l. l. 686
 Mr. Gill  opposed the Amendment. Unless it were much more comprehensive, the companies might constantly evade it. They might, for example, run only one train, and that at so inconvenient an hour, and at so slow a rate of speed, that no one could go by it.
 Mr. Entwisle  thought the petition of the inhabitants of Rochdale scarcely received proper respect when it was considered in so thin a House, and treated so lightly. He would give his support to the Motion of the hon. Member for Rochdale; for the instances adduced in that House had fully evidenced the hardship of the Poor Law, and the horror with which it was regarded by the great mass of the people. He would appeal to the right hon. Baronet whether so strong a feeling of opposition and dislike, exhibited by so large a proportion of the population, ought to be disregarded.
 Mr. Ferrand : I rejoice, Sir, that I have caught your eye, for I am anxious to bear my testimony to the unanimity of that vast meeting at which this petition was agreed to, and the determined spirit which the inhabitants of Rochdale then exhibited, to stand by the principles which they on that occasion asserted. I also rejoice to have the opportunity of calling the attention of the House to the solemn pledges given by those who introduced this law, and the manner in which those pledges have been broken, as well as the fearful results which have accrued to the country by the enforcement of this law. I will prove that the inhabitants of Rochdale are justified in resisting the extension of the system into their neighbourhood; and that obedience, on their part, would be a crime, while resistance is a virtue. There were the most solemn pledges given when this law was introduced; this House was deceived by those pledges, and so was the country; and what can Parliament say now, when I prove that those pledges have been most unblushingly broken? Will it assert that the people of Rochdale are not justified in resisting a law which was carried by unjust and unconstitutional means; or will it aid the Poor Law Commissioners in enforcing it upon them? Sir, when this measure was first introduced by
 708 "As to the observation of the hon. Member for Marylebone, who hoped that the Commissioners would not interfere with parishes that were well regulated, he had to say, that he hoped they would not; the only mode in which, he trusted, they would deal with such parishes would be by following their example. When a parish was really well regulated, it need not entertain the slightest apprehension of interference upon the part of the Commissioners." s. s. 709 "Such a system (that is, the old Poor Law) deadens all sense of shame, all sense of real dignity; erases from the mind every feeling of honourable independence, and fits its victims only for acts of outrage or of fraud. Look at that volume (the  Poor Law Commissioners' Report, "That which I could not bear to think of, did I not know that the same hand which lays it bare to your eyes, and makes its naked deformity horrible in your sight, will be enabled by your assistance to apply to the foul disease a safe and effectual remedy; restoring to industry its due reward, and visiting idleness with its appropriate punishment; reinstating property in security, and lifting up once more—God be praised!—the character of that noble English peasantry to the proud eminence where, but for the Poor Laws, it would still have shone untarnished, the admiration of mankind, and the glory of the country which boasts it as its brightest ornament." "He had been Chairman of a Board of Guardians. He had seen the practical working of this measure, having for four years watched it with the greatest possible anxiety. In the Union with which he was connected, there was a large body of handloom weavers,
 710 "The law contemplated that on a given day the refusal of out-door relief throughout England and Wales should be general. … This rule prohibiting out-door relief, so far from being general throughout England, was, he must say, somewhat capriciously applied. It was applied to certain Unions in the south, but in the north the rule was not in operation. In Cumberland, in the Union of which he was chairman, they were bound by no such regulation. An ample discretion was left them; they were not fettered in the least; and if they had not been left to the exercise of this unfettered discretion, he was bound to say that he should not have held himself responsible for the conduct of that Union." "It was in the hope and in the belief that a new test would improve the condition of the labourer himself, and that it would teach him the happiness and pride of an independent position, that he had consented to the alteration in the law." 711 "He considered it to be at variance with every other clause in the New Poor Law Act. It was a renewal of the worst part of the old system — the allowance system. It would expose the new law to universal relaxation, and would in that respect alone be productive of the most pernicious consequences. It would create great dissatisfaction among the labourers, as it would divide them into two distinct classes, one of which would be entitled to relief out of the workhouse, and the other not, and that, too, without the slightest reference either to the goodness or the worthlessness of their character. By the cogency of such arguments, and by the want of uniformity thus created in the system of Poor Laws, the House would be compelled to break down by degrees all the efficiency of the present law." "Expressed his intention to support the Clause. So far was he from being willing to extend the authority of the Commissioners, that he had every desire to abridge it; for he
 712 s. 713 l.; l. l. l.; l. l. l. l. l. l.; l.; l.; l., l. l.; l.; l.; l. l. l.; l.; l.; l., l. British Almanack 714 "Another cause for a winter assize, he lamented to say, must be considered to be the steady increase of crime throughout the country and in their own county; that increase, too, being not so much observable in crimes of a petty nature, as in those of a more serious character. Within the last eight years, the number of prisoners had nearly doubled in their own county; and, though it was true that
 715 "The workhouse! No! A gaol, a gaol for me!" 716 717
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  said that notwithstanding the lateness of the hour, he thought it would be more convenient for him to proceed with the Motion of which he had given notice than to postpone it to another night. The subject he was about to bring under the notice of the House might appear from the nature of his Motion to be of a local character; but the House would be mistaken if they considered it to be of mere local interest, for it involved the question, whether the authority of the Poor Law Commissioners should be enforced in every corner of England that still resisted their authority. It was in fact the great question whether all the districts under Local Acts, or which still managed their poor under the Select Vestries' Act, should be compelled to bow their neck to the yoke of that sovereign authority which had been not inappropriately called the authority of the Three Kings at Somerset House. The Motion which he brought forward also raised the question, whether the New Poor Law Act should continue as it was, or whether it should be amended in such a manner as to render it more conformable to justice, to policy, and
 695 ex-officio mandamus mandamus. mandamus mandamus 696 mandamus, mandamus 697 698 s. l., l. l. s. d. s. "They asked persons whom they found in distress, had they applied for relief? 'They declared they had not; and appeared to me to have a pride in endeavouring to keep off the parish as long as possible.' Again, you will not fail to observe the small amount of out-relief given in some of these townships, compared with what is usual in the Poor Law Unions of the south of England. In Wardleworth, a population of 11,400, the weekly out-relief amounts on an average to only 10 l. l. 699 l. 700 701 "In the Poor Law Amendment Act first submitted to the consideration of Parliament, a clause was inserted which directed that all relief to able-bodied paupers out of workhouse should cease on the 1st of July, 1835. In the progress of the Bill the clause was withdrawn, and the Commissioners were charged with the important duty of fixing the time when in each Union that provision, which formed the first recommendation of the Poor Law Commissioners, and is in fact the main object of the Poor Law Amendment Act, should be carried into effect. We have not ceased to bear in mind this very important part of our duties; and we have carefully watched the progress of the districts first formed into Unions for the purpose of ascertaining at what time, and to what extent, this provision might be enforced in them." "No doubt can be entertained that it was the deliberate intention of Parliament, in framing the Poor Law Amendment Act, that all out-door relief to the able-bodied should cease at the earliest period that it could safely and with propriety be put an end to, and the question which we have successively to decide as to each Union is, whether the time may be fairly deemed to have arrived." 702 703 "But I have yet to learn that there is anything in the regulations issued by your Board, or in the advice given under your instructions, which would ever cause the guardians to oblige respectable married couples who require relief to enter a workhouse." "Article 1 — Every able-bodied person, male or female, requiring relief from any parish within any of the said Unions, shall be relieved wholly in the workhouse of the Union, together with such of the family of every such able-bodied persons as may be resident with him or her, and may not be in employment, and together with the wife of every such able-bodied male person, if he be a married man, and if she be resident with him, save and except in the following cases." 704 "The regulations respecting out-door relief of the able-bodied, which were in force in the several Unions, were generally observed, and we were not required by special circumstances to modify our general orders on this subject." "They have hitherto applied the prohibitory scale, with few exceptions, to able-bodied male paupers; but the guardians of many boards have been induced to investigate the claims under which widows and old persons have been for a length of time relieved; and to put to the proof the actual destitution of many long-established pensioners on the rates. Persons struck off by the guardians have appealed to the magistrates under the 27th clause, which gives them a limited jurisdiction with regard to paupers whom they can certify as wholly unable to work. The Commissioners say they have been called upon to explain the nature and extent of this power. They say it can go no further than to the extent that relief shall be given in the workhouse; but the amount and quality of the relief which is to be assigned to the individual is to be decided on and awarded solely by the guardians, by whom alone the power of doing and regulating the relief to the poor is (subject to our orders and regulations) to be exercised." "For most certain it is that anything more mischievous—anything more fatal to the country—anything more calculated to multiply indefinitely the numbers of the poor, cannot be conceived than the application to them of any
 705 706 707 "That the Petition of the Ratepayers and Inhabitants of Rochdale, presented on the 25th day of February last, be referred to a Select Committee of this House, to inquire into the administration of the relief to the Poor in that district."
 Mr. Stansfield  said, he should press his Amendment.
 Mr. Stansfield  thought that it ought to be made imperative on the companies to carry passengers and goods, after the great powers with which Parliament had invested them with a view to the accommodation of the public. He should move, therefore, the insertion of words which would make the first part of the clause read thus—"It shall be lawful for the company or their lessees, and they are hereby required to use."
 Sir C. Napier  said, that nothing could be more amiable in a Member who was the relative of a gallant officer serving abroad, than to get up and defend that officer when any charge was made against him. The gallant Colonel who had preceded the hon. Baronet who had just sat down, had proved Captain Fitzroy to have been engaged on an important survey, and had shown that he was a good surveyor; but a man might be a good nautical surveyor, and yet make a precious bad Governor. He thought the Government had committed a great mistake in sending out Captain Fitzroy as Governor to New Zealand, for he was better calculated to fill the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer. His plan to pay the National Debt with debentures entitled him, at least, to be kept at home, to assist the Chancellor, if he were not appointed to that office. He could bear his testimony to the merits of the unfortunate Captain Wakefield, than whom there was not a better or more gallant officer in the service. He regretted his untimely end; and he also regretted that, instead of shaking hands with his murderer, they had not executed him.
 Captain Pechell  regretted that the right hon. Baronet had almost repeated the same words as he had used when the hon. Member for Rochdale opposed the second reading of the Poor Law Bill. The law proceedings which were going on, gave no ground for rejecting the Motion. These parties had now come before the House to state the grievances they complained of. Although a local question, it was one in which all places not under the power of the Commissioners had a right to join, because it would not be very long after the wedge was introduced before every place now under Local Acts would be placed under the power of the Poor Law Commissioners. In all these places, wherever the New Poor Law had been attempted to be introduced, the people were united in resisting it. The people actually preferred going to prison rather than be detained in the workhouses. What a lamentable picture did the Report of the visiting justices of the town of Devizes present! Paupers had been sent to that prison not decent as to their clothing, or in a fit state of health; and the visiting Justices had made a report by their chief magistrate, that people were sent to prison in a state of destitution, and that they committed crime in order to get into prison. The right hon. Gentleman no doubt thought it right to give no reason for the refusal of the Motion, because a  mandamus mandamus,
 Sir J. Graham  said: I have now listened to the addresses of the hon. Member for Rochdale on this subject several times, and on all those occasions I never failed to testify the respect for him which I have always felt; but on this occasion I perhaps may be permitted to advert to a practice—in order to prevent its being made a precedent — which the hon. Member has adopted, and which is very inconvenient,—I allude to the practice of deliberately putting upon the Order Book of the House the form of a Motion which an hon. Member gives notice he shall submit, and then at the last moment varying materially his terms of the Motion which he actually makes to the House. I certainly came down to the House thinking that we were to discuss the question whether we should hear counsel at the Bar on behalf of the people of Rochdale, according to the Notice of Motion of the hon. Gentleman; but now I find that the hon. Gentleman has altered his Motion and asks for a Select Committee. Sir, the hon. Member has shown very great industry in the elaborate speech he has made to the House; I have given it all the attention which is due to the hon. Member's station and to the importance of the borough he represents; but he must permit me to say that I have

 718 719 mandamus mandamus mandamus.
 Mr. Pakington  wished to ask, whether something might not be done to compel the company to employ a sufficient police force, to prevent disturbances in the neighbourhood, and to preserve property through which the railroad passed. It was quite notorious that in many cases where a large number of unmanageable men were employed upon a railroad from all parts of the country, the depredations and disturbances which arose in consequence of there not being any sufficient power to keep them in awe were shocking to contemplate.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, that some expressions which had been used by his hon. Friend were not such as should have been introduced into that discussion. His hon. Friend had talked of the New Zealanders as a nation of children, and talked of them as having been roused to disobedience by the conduct of his hon. and gallant Friend Captain Fitzroy. He would take the liberty of saying, in the absence of the gallant Captain, that he felt it an honour to call himself his friend. So much, in the progress of that discussion, had been said against him—and not only against him, but also against the proceedings of Her Majesty's Government—in reference to the subject, that he could not help taking a stand in the matter, and saying that there appeared to him to be a fundamental error—a fundamental sin, he might almost call it—on the part of those who advocated the cause of the New Zealand Company; for he had heard in that House—and the hon. Member who had permitted himself to use the expression was then opposite him—that all the sympathies of their humanity were in favour of the savage and the slave, instead of in favour of the civilized man. He himself was not ashamed to say, that in the contest between the poor and the weak, on the one hand, and the rich and the powerful, on the other, his sympathies would always be with the poor and the weak. Could any one say that the inhabitants of New Zealand were a race for whom his sympathies should not be enlisted? He would not admit that the people of New Zealand were to be regarded as children. All the evidence which we had regarding them would justify us in placing them on a level with the English as they existed about eight centuries ago. They can trace their descent and the possession of their lands for twenty and twenty-five generations, that was to say for a period which extended back to about the time of the Norman Conquest. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Liskeard, with whom he had the pleasure of agreeing last night, although he could not have that pleasure on the present occasion, alleged, by the intimation given by him by a shake of his head, that that historical conclusion was unsupported by facts. All he could
 687 688
 Sir R. Peel  said, it was much to be regretted that the hon. Gentleman who seconded the Motion had not followed the example set him by his predecessor, and contented himself with some observations on the subject-matter of that Motion. No opposition would have been offered to it, with the exception of a slight alteration in
 676 677 C. Buller: C. Buller 678 "The spirit which Lord Stanley has manifested, showing that he is prepared to afford cordial countenance and assistance to the endeavours of the Company to execute to the greatest possible extent the public functions intrusted to them by their charter, is quite as gratifying to the Court as the letter of the actual arrangement." 679 "Their communications with that distinguished officer have assured them that his views of colonization are sound and enlarged, and that he will enter upon the discharge of his duties altogether free from any partial preference for any particular locality, or for any particular section of the general body of Her Majesty's subjects whom he has been appointed to govern. The high position in this country which he has voluntarily abandoned, in order to undertake the administration of the rising Colony of New Zealand, places it beyond question that he could have been actuated in such a step only by a sense of public duty, and by a benevolent desire of becoming an instrument of good, both to the British colonists and the natives of New Zealand. All these circumstances combine to give the Directors the most entire confidence, that they shall henceforward be able to carry out the great purposes of the Company's incorporation with a vigour and success commensurate with their importance." 680 681
 Sir R. Peel  felt bound to admit that he entirely concurred with the right hon. Gentleman in the general principle which he had laid down. He thought the best policy they could adopt would be, not to have any public Bill introduced at the morning sittings without a distinct prior understanding on the matter. With respect to the Sugar Duties Bill, he anticipated that there would be no division upon the first reading, or otherwise he would not have allowed it to be brought forward at the early sittings, but in future he would take care that no public Bill should be brought forward before the evening sitting.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he was convinced that Mr. Mandeville never expected that his
 644
 Sir Robert Peel : In reply to the questions put by the noble Lord, I have in the first place to observe, with respect to the communication which was presented by our Minister, and by the Representative of France, to the Government of Buenos Ayres, that the translation which has been read by the noble Lord to the House is substantially correct, and agrees in the material points with the original document which I hold in my hand. There is, as might naturally be supposed, some variance in the expressions used; but I must at the same time admit that the translation is in substance perfectly correct. In December, 1842, the Representatives in the Argentine Confederation of the two Powers of England and France did send in to the Governments of Buenos Ayres and Monte Video the representation contained in the letter which has been read by the noble Lord to the House; and I think in the following January they went forward and stated that they had good reason to believe that the combined fleets of England and France had sailed from Europe for the purpose which they had before stated. I do not know whether the noble Lord recollects that in the month of June, 1843, a question similar to that which he has now brought forward was put to me by, I think, the hon. Member for Dumfries. That hon. Gentleman asked me on that occasion whether the Minister Plenipotentiary of this country had been entirely justified in the course which he had taken towards Buenos Ayres;
 642 643
 Viscount Howick  said, in consequence of what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, it was clear that at no distant period
 682 683
 Viscount Palmerston  wished it to be understood that he did not require the production of any Paper that would retard the negotiation at present going forward. He believed, that in the first place, Mr. Mandeville had been officially employed in negotiating a commercial treaty with Senor Vidal, and he had been thus necessarily obliged to communicate with that functionary. If, therefore, any blame was to be attached to the publication of a portion of the correspondence that passed between them, he thought it lay with Senor Vidal, and not with Mr. Mandeville.
 Viscount Palmerston  said: I rise, Sir, to ask the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government some questions of which I gave notice a few days ago, with regard to the hostilities carrying on between Buenos Ayres and Monte Video. It is well known that between those two States there has existed, for five or six years past, a state of hostility more or less interrupted. And it is also well known that the British Government at one time endeavoured, by an offer of mediation between the two parties, to put an end to those hostilities. The questions which I am going to ask are founded on documents which have been published in the newspapers of Monte Video, in which appeared a Correspondence between Mr. Mandeville, the British Minister at Buenos Ayres, S. Arana, the Minister for Foreign Affairs at Buenos Ayres, and S. Vidal, the Minister for Foreign Affairs at Monte Video. From that Correspondence I am led to infer, that about the summer of 1842, the British Government determined to interpose, and put an end to those hostilities by forcible interference. I beg to guard myself against being supposed to express any opinion, one way or the other, whether the case was such as either to call for or authorise such an interference on the part of any third party, though it is perfectly true that the great commercial interests of this country were affected by that war; and that it would be of great importance to the interests of this country, that the war in question should cease. Nor is it necessary for me to say anything as to which of the two parties was in the right; or to give any opinion whether both of them were in the wrong. But this I may observe—that it appears by a letter written by Mr. Vidal, dated August the 30th, 1842, and sent in answer to a letter from Mr. Mandeville, bearing date the 25th of the same month, that the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs had a short time previously informed the Agent of the Monte Videan Government in this country that the British Government had determined to put an end to the war between the two Republics in question. It also appears, by a letter from Mr. Mandeville, addressed to Mr. Vidal, the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the Republic of Monte Video, dated the 9th of September, in the same year, that Lord
 640
 Mr. E. Ellice  rose to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the operation of the Income Tax. A benevolent society for widows and orphans, established in Fife for more than a century, had been charged with the tax, although the income was very much below 150 l. l. s. l.
 The Earl of Lincoln  did not think that any advantage would be gained by taking the second reading then, and the discussion upon going into Committee. He had made inquiries as to the practicability of abating the nuisance complained of, and within the last few days he had received additional information on the subject; but, nevertheless, he was not then prepared to enter into any particular consideration of the merits of the Bill. There was another reason why he wished the second reading to be adjourned. The House was aware that measures of a similar nature were contemplated by the Government; and the subject of his hon. Friend's Bill might be materially affected by the measures which the Government intended to propose. Under these circumstances, he hoped his hon. Friend would postpone the second reading of his Bill until after Easter.
 General Johnson  said, it was necessary that some alteration should be made in the law, because it was so oppressive that people in trade did not know what they were about. If persons did not know what they were worth, and if they offered to produce their books in case what they said was disputed, and a sum was still levied upon them at the will of the Commissioners, those persons must give up their entire property to the will of the Commissioners. This was a most unjust and iniquitous proceeding towards his Colleague, who was in a large way of business, and who was surcharged to an amount of 24,000 l.,
 Mr. Bernal  said, the hon. Member for Finsbury had not complained of the absence of appeal from the local Commissioners; but the case of the hon. Member for
 731
 General Johnson  seconded the Motion.
 Mr. Rice  seconded the Motion.
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  observed, that if the Minister were not allowed to avail himself of that tax, he must lay on some other of equal amount. His right hon. Friend at the head of the Government had given the House a full explanation of the subject then before them, and, for one, be derived great satisfaction from the manner in which that explanation was given. It had very truly been said, that in laying on a tax of this nature, the peculiar circumstances of this country must be taken into account. The circumstances of America were quite different from those of this country. The disposition of the people to bear such a tax should also be taken into account; and though indirect taxation might have its advantages, yet the considerations in favour of direct taxation were of great weight. No doubt if the feeling of the country were adverse to direct taxes, they ought to be given up. He had opposed all the Amendments brought forward on the present occasion, because he thought that improvements in a measure of this kind could only be effected by the Government, and not by the propositions of individual Members.
 Mr. Tatton Egerton  would not oppose
 760 l. l. l.
 General Johnson  asked why the Bill could not be separated into two Bills—one relating to clerks of the peace, and the other relating to magistrates' clerks? The last class of persons had never been heard of before the Bill brought them so prominently into notice. It would be far better to separate the two classes of clerks, and to fix the emoluments, though he certainly considered that fees were preferable to a salary.
 Mr. Miles  thanked the right hon. Gentleman for introducing a Bill so well calculated to remove an existing evil. He was glad to see the Solicitor General in his place, and wished to know from him whether fees taken under an Act of Parliament were illegal or not? He understood that upwards of thirty counties paid salaries to the justices' clerks instead of fees; and he also wished to know from the Solicitor General whether it were legal to pay them salaries? He did not think the accusation made against the clerks of the
 769
 The Solicitor General  said, he had been asked if those fees settled by Act of Parliament were legal. If they were so settled, most unquestionably it was perfectly legal to take them. But his hon. Friend had imposed a greater difficulty on him in asking him to state the law and the facts of the case. If his hon. Friend would state the facts, he (the Solicitor General) would do his best to state the law of the case. But there appeared to be some difference between the hon. Member for Somersetshire and the hon. Member for Winchester about the facts of the case; and it fortunately happened that there was no necessity for the House to determine which of them was right. But the reason why he should not venture to express an opinion was, that this was a question now pending before a Court of Law. He should have to argue this question in another place, and before a tribunal competent to decide it. The facts of the case would be there ascertained, and when the facts were known the law could be applied. He should, therefore, with great submission to the hon. Member for Somersetshire, decline to give an opinion upon the law, and leave the facts doubtful for the present.
 770
 The Solicitor General  thought the hon. Member for Finsbury had hardly done him justice, for he had never evaded answering a question that had been distinctly put. Had he heard the question alluded to, he should certainly have answered it. The question was—whether a party who had taken illegal fees, and which illegal fees were afterwards abolished, was entitled to compensation in respect of those fees? Did it require a lawyer to answer that question? He thought it did not require even the ingenuity of the hon. Member for Finsbury. Such an officer was certainly not entitled to compensation.
 Lord J. Manners  seconded the proposition of the hon. Member for Birmingham, because he was anxious to see an Income Tax made as equitable as possible. He thought it would be most unfair to tax that man to the whole extent of his income who depends for the subsistence of himself and his family upon his physical or mental exertions, and who, if he be a prudent or right-thinking father of a family, would endeavour to provide for that family by an insurance upon his life. Whether they viewed the proposition as an act of mere justice to a large class of deserving individuals, or, as a wise and paternal government ought to look at it—as a measure calculated to encourage life insurance, he thought it could only be considered as a wise and prudent step to effect such a result. He hoped that the House would sanction the principle involved in this clause.
 Mr. Hawes  remarked, that the injustice pointed out by the hon. Member for Kendal (Mr. Warburton) could be overcome in no other way than by rendering the Income Tax permanent. The hon. Member for the University of Oxford said it was not to be regarded as permanent; to which his hon. Friend (Mr. Warburton) very properly replied, "Let us deal with it as a permanent measure, and adjust the different degrees of annuitants to it." Surely the House were not to be deterred from doing justice because the tax was one nominally for three years only. It was nominally for three years in 1842; it was nominally for three years in 1845; and it would be nominally for three years in 1848; so that, in point of fact, it must be regarded as permanent. With regard to insurances for three years, the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) seemed to apprehend fraud; but he should recollect what powers were given to the Commissioners to enforce this odious and infamous tax—a tax that could only be made just in proportion as power was given to the Commissioners to decide the cases before them according to equity and justice.
 Mr. Hawes  was disposed to think the fees legal; but thought it unnecessary to raise that question, as those fees were now about to be put on an equitable footing. He approved of the measure before the House, and hoped no obstacle would be thrown in the way of the right hon. Gentleman who had introduced it, and who, he hoped, would succeed in carrying it into law.
 Mr. Hawes  must oppose the Income Tax, notwithstanding what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet; and he should pursue that course because that tax gave an independent revenue to the Minister without reference to the general articles of consumption, and because, but for it, the Minister must resort to sugar or to other articles of consumption, to raise the sum necessary for carrying on the engagements of the country. It was all very well to talk of a judicious mixture of direct and indirect taxation; but in his opinion it was altogether impolitic and improper to think of introducing direct taxation until they had placed their indirect taxation upon a fair and honest basis. Until direct taxation was placed upon a fair basis, the proposed commutation could never advantageously be brought about. All the opposition which he had offered to the measure proceeded upon that ground. He could not help observing, that while improvement was sought in one direction, other cases of really great importance were left untouched. The right hon. Gentleman had stated, fairly enough, that he did anticipate the continuance of the tax beyond the period of three years; he said so formerly, and he now said the same. Well, if the country be so charmed with the tax at the end of the next three years, nothing would be so easy for them as to declare their wish to continue it; but that could scarcely form a reason why all fair representations made on the subject should now be so much discouraged as they were. After having on more than one occasion stated the hardships of the measure, and the numerous objections to it, he could not now conclude without giving it his parting malediction, as a tax in itself most unjust, and as one which stood in the way of that wholesome reform
 757
 Mr. Hawes  wished the Bill to be referred to a Select Committee.
 Mr. Escott  was obliged to the right hon. Baronet for introducing this measure, by which very important objects would be attained. The objections which had been
 768 l. l. s.
 Mr. Darby  said, that the Bill would not only add greatly to the expenses of the counties, but it would also very much complicate the machinery of justice and of country business. He doubted if it could be carried out. The very best lawyers ought always to be employed as justices' clerks, and the Bill would effectually prevent that if they were not allowed to conduct prosecutions upon which so much of their emoluments depended. If that part of the Bill were persevered in, a very inferior class of persons would henceforward be found willing to act as justices' clerks.
 761
 Mr. Muntz  had great pleasure in seconding the Motion of his hon. Colleague.
 734
 Mr. Muntz  hoped the hon. Gentleman would take the noble Lord's advice, and also that he would alter his Bill in some important particulars. It was absurd to attempt, by legislation, to put down a nuisance which was so small that it was necessary to have inspectors to find it out.
 Mr. Aglionby  expressed his belief that, whether the Income Tax were permanent or temporary, it would be unjust to make the exemption now sought. The Motion of the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Spooner) had on the face of it something extremely plausible; but it seemed to him that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had completely answered all the points the hon. Member had urged. Whether the tax were temporary or permanent, he thought they ought not to allow a person who made a provision for his family in one way to evade its operation, while a person who made that provision in another way was subject to it. A person who had an income of 250 l. l. 743 l., bonâ fide l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was anxious to state the grounds upon which he objected to a proposition that appeared to have a benevolent regard to the interests of a large class of people. The proposal of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Spooner) was, that a deduction should be allowed to a particular class upon account of insurances on their lives, and he stated it was founded upon a benevolent principle; but the hon. Member did not accurately see the bearing of his own proposition. In the first instance he (Mr. Spooner) limited the advantages he proposed to give to a very small portion of those who paid equally the burden of the Income Tax. He confined them to classes D and E, viz., to persons embarked in trade and professions, or engaged in Government offices, paying a proportion of Income Tax of 1,700,000 l., l. 741 l. l. l. s. 742
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that taking the example of the antecedent Act, in 1842, he placed the mines in the same position as they then occupied in the measure now proposed by Her Majesty's Government. And it had been suggested to him by parties connected with mines that they should be placed in Schedule A, because that would give them longer time to calculate the averages. He had not heard a single complaint on the subject.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was obliged to the hon. Member for Finsbury for having answered the question of the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Hawes) as to the perpetuity of this tax. The declaration of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Wakley), that the tax would not last beyond the period of three years could not fail to be satisfactory to the hon. Member for Lambeth. But he must be as hardhearted with regard to the Amendment of
 746
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought that the proposition made by his hon. Friend (Sir R. Inglis) would, if adopted, lead to a greater degree of evasion and fraud than took place at present, and was liable to all the objections that had been urged against his hon. Friend's former Motion. In the first place, the hon. Baronet said, "You know the exact income of every man, and can make a deduction of 4 l. s. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s., 751 l. l. l. l. A l.,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed that the hon. and gallant Member opposite had asked how it was that civil officers in Her Majesty's service stationed in Ireland were altogether released from payment of the Income Tax, whilst naval and military officers employed in the routine of their duties there were obliged to pay it. The reason was, that the Government having determined to exempt Ireland from the tax, it was manifestly unjust to compel those to pay it who were permanently stationed there, and whose duties, no less than their salaries, were exclusively referable to that country; whereas, with respect to naval and military officers, they were not attached in any especial manner to the soil of Ireland, but their duties might lead them at one moment to be resident there, and in the next they might be called into any other part of the United Kingdom.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he could assure his hon. Friend (Mr. Spooner), that he gave him full credit for the spirit in which he brought his Amendments before the House. He could also assure his hon. Friend, that he did not resist his Motion on any of the grounds which his hon. Friend had alluded to. He would not say that the House had not time to be just. He agreed with his hon. Friend that they had time, and that they ought to have time, to act justly towards all parties who had claims upon them. But he resisted the Motion, because he believed the law as it already stood could be administered without operating unjustly upon the classes alluded to by his hon. Friend. The proposition of his hon. Friend was, that persons assessed under Schedule D should be allowed to deduct from their profits a certain allowance for the maintenance of the members of their families who laboured for them. It was not allowed to any person assessed under the Income Tax to make deductions on account of the maintenance of his family. His hon. Friend admitted in the early part of his speech, that any person who employed any members of his family, and paid them for the work which they did for him, had a right to claim exemption from the tax to the amount which he so paid away; and in those cases the law made no distinction as to whether the member of the family so paid resided with the head of the family or not. Therefore, when exemptions of this kind were required, all that it was necessary to prove
 735 bonâ fide "And whereas, it is enacted by the said recited Act, that the rental or parts of rental of premises used for the purpose of trade may be allowed as a deduction from gains and profits; be it enacted, that from and after the passing of this Act, a similar deduction shall be made for sums paid for poor rates and other parochial and local rates."
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had never heard of the circumstances to which the hon. Gentleman the Member for Finsbury had adverted till that moment when he had heard the statement. He did not know how that case arose, and knowing nothing of the circumstances, it was out of his power to satisfy the House with respect to it. But he knew this, that there was a power of bringing the case before the Commissioners of Somerset House, by an appeal, of which Mr. Fielden might have availed himself, to correct the error of the Commissioners in the country. The case was, therefore, not without a remedy; and he begged leave to point out that as the best remedy to which Mr. Fielden could have recourse to rectify the error of which he complained. There was an independent authority in the Commissioners in London to inquire into the circumstances, and to apply a remedy.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  regretted that the nature of the questions had not earlier been communicated to
 726
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that the case was a peculiar one. The Property Tax Act made an exception in favour of all enrolled friendly societies whose property was invested in public securities; but this voluntary association of Fife had invested its funds in lands and mortgages, so as to take it out of the exception. Of course, upon such small fractional sums as the hon. Member had mentioned, it must be very difficult to obtain a return of the tax; but within the last hour, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had communicated with the Tax Department; and he hoped that, even as the law stood, it would be possible to grant the relief sought.
 Mr. Warburton  said, he thought the same objections held good against this proposition of the hon. Member for Birmingham as those he had made on a former evening to the proposition of the hon. Member for Oxford. It appeared to him that the principle involved in the proposition of the hon. Member for Oxford and the hon. Member for Birmingham was precisely the same. The principle, no doubt, appeared at first sight to be fair; but when they came to examine it, or carry it into effect, it was really most unfair and complicated. He considered that
 740
 Mr. Curteis  said, that he felt when the question was put that the Bill be read a third time, that he ought not to abstain from moving that it be read a third time that day six months; finding, however, that so few hon. Members supported him, he wished to avoid giving the House the trouble of dividing. He was against the tax on account of its inquisitorial nature. It would be, he thought, a great advantage if the inquisitorial character of the impost could be avoided. He admitted that he entertained something of a party feeling in this matter, and he thought that a good rally had been made on the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Liskeard. On that occasion his noble leader, the Member for London, voted with the Government. He had always been proud and happy to fight as a humble follower of that noble Lord; and he had hoped that the noble Lord would have recorded his vote, if it were only once, against the measure in its present form, so that the people at large might jumble
 759
 Mr. Bright  said, there was a general feeling that the settlement of this question was a very easy matter. He thought that the perusal of the Report showed the extreme difficulty of legislation upon the subject. There was the greatest difference of opinion as to the principle of the Bill, and no lawyer in Wesminster Hall could explain its meaning. He thought the House might employ itself much better than in this peddling legislation, which never could be attended with useful and permanent results. He trusted, therefore, that the hon. Member would withdraw this Bill, and turn his attention to some more useful project of legislation.
 Mr. Trelawny  thanked the right hon. Baronet for his free-trade measures, and observed that had he gone much further in that direction he would gladly have supported him. He gave the right hon. Baronet credit for his abolition of the auction duty, which was a very severe tax upon persons disposing of their property under circumstances of distress. Had the right hon. Baronet adapted the Income Tax more to the circumstances of the various classes upon whom it pressed, he would have had a much better chance of perpetuating a system of direct taxation, than under the unequal pressure of the present tax he now had.
 Mr. Brotherton  saw no reason for putting off the Bill. The principle was good, only he did not think it was carried far enough. He thought it would be an improvement in the Bill, if magistrates' clerks were allowed to conduct prosecutions; but they ought still to be paid by salaries, and not by fees. Such was the practice in the borough which he had the honour to represent. The magistrates' clerks there had no interest whatever in sending persons for prosecution. At present, generally speaking, they were interested in sending cases for prosecution, because their fees depended on the numbers of such cases, and thus a heavy expense was thrown upon counties upon frivolous grounds; whereas, if the magistrates' clerks were paid by salaries, they would not be interested in sending cases to the sessions; the business of the country would be better done, and at a far less expense. It had been suggested that it was better to appoint a prosecutor, but of this he would say nothing.
 Mr. Henley  observed, that the magistrates' clerks had many other duties to perform besides those which related to prosecutions; such, for instance, as the appointment of proper persons for overseers, the choice of competent surveyors of the highways, and a variety of similar functions, for which they were remunerated by fees; and he feared if salaries were substituted for that sort of payment, those duties would henceforward be performed in a slovenly and ineffective manner. He feared that if clerks at petty sessions had fixed salaries, there would be a disposition to hurry through cases. He confessed that he had never been able to see any data on which they could calculate what would be a just salary to be given to clerks of the peace; he was by this Bill to be paid a compensation for his fees and emoluments; but he should like to know what was meant by emoluments; and it would be difficult to find any proper sum to assign to gentlemen
 762
 Mr. Forster  moved the Clause of which he had given notice:—
 "And whereas all persons, corporations, and companies, carrying on any mines of lead, tin, coal, copper, iron, or other undertakings of the like nature, are now chargeable under Schedule A; Beit Enacted, That from and after the passing of this Act the said persons, corporations, or companies so chargeable in respect of all such undertakings, shall be assessed for the same under Schedule D, in like manner, and with the same option of privacy, as other persons, corporations, or companies chargeable under that Schedule." 747
 Mr. Cobden  said, the hon. Member, in referring to the remarks made by his hon. Friend the Member for Durham, had stated that similar provisions to those contained in his Bill were in force in Manchester. Now, he believed the Corporation of that town had power to enforce similar provisions, but they had postponed enforcing them until the present month of March. His hon. Friend had formerly suggested to the hon. Member, and he would now repeat the suggestion, whether it might not be advisable to postpone this measure until the result of the experiment about to be made in Manchester had been ascertained. The people of Manchester were strongly in favour of putting down the smoke nuisance, and
 729
 Mr. Spooner  said, the right hon. Gentleman had misunderstood him. The right hon. Gentleman said that he (Mr. Spooner) proposed to introduce the tax-gatherer into every man's dwelling to inquire what part of his family was employed by him or not. He (Mr. Spooner) had not made any such proposal. All he said was, that the Government officer had before him, at the time of appeal, the returns from all those engaged in the same trade within the same district, and that he therefore had the power of ascertaining by comparison what it would be just for
 736
 Mr. Spooner  then moved the following Clause—
 "That from and after the passing of this Act, it shall be lawful for all persons chargeable under Schedules D and E, who may have effected, or may hereafter effect, any insurance or insurances on their respective life or lives, to claim deduction from the amount of the annual premium paid for such insurance or insurances; and whenever such deduction so claimed shall reduce the net annual income below the sum of 150 l., 739
 Mr. Spooner  then rose to complain of an evil in the operation of the tax, to which he thought a remedy might be adapted. The evil of which he complained arose from these words of the Act,—
 "And, whereas, by the said recited Act it is provided, in the first rule of Schedule D, relating to deductions, that no sum shall be set against or deducted from the profits or gains arising under that Schedule for any disbursements or expenses of maintenance of the parties, their families, or establishments." 732 bonâ fide 733 "Be it Enacted, that from and after the passing of this Act, whenever the person or persons so liable to be charged under the said Schedule shall employ any member or members of his family in carrying on his trade or profession, it shall be lawful to deduct such sum or sums of money as would have been a fair remuneration for such employment if any other person had been so employed."
 Mr. Spooner  said, the hon. Member would find on inquiry that a person who so withdrew an insurance would obtain a very poor return for the premiums he had paid.
 Mr. Spooner  said, after this division he would withdraw the 4th Clause of which he had given notice.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  wished to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to what appeared to him a manifest injustice; to which he trusted a remedy might be applied. The Department of Legacy Duties and the Assessments upon Incomes
 725 l. l. l., l. s. l. l.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  referred to the petition he had presented yesterday from 3,000 colliers of Durham, when he had stated that he would ask for further information today. The petitioners complained of the bad ventilation of coal mines, in consequence of which so many fatal accidents had occurred. The right hon. Home Secretary had sent down Commissioners to investigate the causes of a recent and most calamitous event of the kind; and the petitioners were anxious to know whether the attention of the Government had been directed to the subject, with a view to the introduction of a measure which may better secure the lives of persons employed in coal mines? If not, whether they would object to the appointment of a Select Committee to take the matter into consideration, and make the necessary inquiries? The petitioners seemed to be of opinion that inspectors ought to be appointed who had no local interest.
 Mr. Wakley , in explanation, said, that Mr. Fielden stated that he had appealed against this 24,000 l.
 Mr. Wakley  rose and said, that on a former occasion when the Property Tax was discussed, the hon. Member for Lambeth had referred to some injustice which had been done by the Commissioners to the hon. Member for Oldham—he meant Mr. Fielden. Since then he had received a letter from the hon. Member on the subject, and in order to make the case complete, he would read an extract from this letter to the House. The hon. Member stated that this year the same Commissioners, those who had treated him so severely before, had received a return from the firm to which the hon. Member belonged for three years, ending December, 1843, but the Commissioners were not satisfied with assessing them at 12,000 l. l. "I appealed against it in November last, and showed them a true statement in writing, which exhibits our loss at 24,000 l. 730
 Mr. Wakley  said, the principle of the Bill was universally approved of. Smoke was every where found to be a great nuisance. It was quite notorious that it might be got rid of, and it was in the power of Parliament to accomplish so
 728
 Mr. Wakley  said, this Bill professed to be a measure for levying a tax upon income, and by the Amendment of which he had given notice he wished to relieve parties from a tax upon losses. Some landlords complained that they received no rents for their property, in consequence of the tenants becoming bankrupt or insolvent, or absconding, and that in many cases their property was much injured by such tenants; and they desired that the Commissioners for general purposes should be empowered, on proof of such facts, to relieve the landlords from payment of the Income Tax upon these losses. This was so just a proposal that he thought it could not be objected to; although it had been urged that, because this Bill was to continue in operation only for three years, the tax ought to be endured without modification. But suppose a medical practitioner were to apply a large blister to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and say, "Oh, never mind it—it will only last for three years,"—would the right hon. Gentleman consider that a sound argument for such an infliction? He could assure the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government that the people out of doors fully expected that this tax would have ceased at the end of the three years. He was bound to say that no question could have been brought before the House in a more statesmanlike manner than was the proposal of this tax by the right hon. Baronet, and the question was left to the determination of the House. He had supported the general proposition; and if there should be a division on the third reading of the Bill, he would vote in its favour, for he thought the right hon. Baronet's proposal was for the advantage of the country. But
 745 "And whereas doubts have arisen whether the landlord for the time being of premises charged under Schedule A is liable to the Duty charged on the said premises under the said last mentioned Schedule, whether the said landlord shall or shall not have received the rent in respect of the said premises; Be it Enacted, and it is hereby Enacted, that it shall and may be lawful for the Commissioners for General Purposes, acting for the district in which the said premises are situated, on appeal to them made for that purpose by the said landlord or his agent, to discharge the said assessment, or such portion thereof, at the rate of 7 d.
 Mr. Wakley  said, the right hon. Gentleman seemed disposed to exercise more caution than the people, for they had got the blister fixed upon them, and they must endure it. He (Mr. Wakley) felt it was useless to press the Amendment to a division, and therefore he would not give the House the trouble of dividing.
 Mr. Wakley  thought the Solicitor General should have given a direct and explicit answer to the question—whether it was legal to grant compensation for fees which had been taken illegally? That was an important question; but whenever a question was put to a legal Gentleman in office, there was always a difficulty in answering it. The question was always sure to take him by surprise. It must be very unsatisfactory for a legal gentleman to answer every question respecting the state of the law, as hon. Members were in that state that they did not understand the laws which they themselves had made. The right hon. Gentleman who had introduced the Bill was entitled to much praise, and he (Mr. Wakley) hoped the same principle of reform would be extended to the higher courts. Only ten years ago he had the misfortune to publish a statement respecting a country magistrate, for which he thought proper to issue a criminal information against him. A printed paper was served on him, which contained no account of the accusation. On inquiry at the Crown Office, he was informed that certain affidavits had been filed. It was necessary that he should answer these; but he could not see them without paying 3 l. l.
 Mr. Mackinnon  was surprised to hear the observations that had fallen from the hon. Member who had just sat down; and it was quite evident he was not aware that a local Bill, having the same enactments as this, had been adopted by Manchester and Leeds. He believed there could not be a second opinion that smoke was a nuisance which could very easily be abated. He should accede to the request of his noble Friend, and postpone the second reading of the Bill.
 Mr. Mackinnon , after presenting petitions in favour of the Smoke Prohibition Bill, moved the second reading; expressing a hope the House would allow the Bill to be read a second time, and take the discussion at a future stage.
 Sir C. Napier  said, that all the officers engaged in the Civil Service and stationed in Ireland, were free from the Income Tax; but that officers of the Army and Navy stationed in that part of the United Kingdom were obliged to pay the Income Tax. Now, he wanted to have that explained.
 Mr. Ward  could not refrain from noticing the fact, that after all the strong opinions expressed against the Income Tax, hon. Members did not seem to like voting against it. For his part, he never expected to see the Income Tax removed; and he fully believed that whenever his hon. Friends near him came into power, they would find themselves under the necessity of laying on such a tax. He looked in vain for the elements of an Administration that could do without an Income Tax. The party to which he more immediately belonged, the free-trade party, supported views which the other Members of the Opposition did not seem at all inclined to espouse. He saw no disposition to take up those principles. As to the question before the House, it was entirely a question of degree. But this was a very important consideration, that whereas his hon. Friends near him talked a great deal about what they would do, the right hon. Baronet did what he said. It was only
 758 l.
 Sir J. Graham  moved that the Justices' Clerks and Clerks to the Peace Bill be read a second time.
 Sir James Graham  hoped he should not inconvenience the House if he followed his numerous Friends on this (the Ministerial) side, who, he was sorry to find, did not much encourage him in the progress of the Bill. He could assure his hon. Friends that he undertook the measure from an earnest desire to promote the better administration of justice—an object common to them all—and that he entertained an earnest desire to pay respect and attention to the various suggestions which had been thrown out by many men of great practical experience, and of much and attentive observation, in reference to the matter contemplated by the measure. At the same time he would observe, that on the present occasion they were discussing only the principle of the Bill. Many of the objections taken by the hon. Gentlemen on the same side of the House with him, and by some on the opposite side, applied rather to its details than to the principles of the Bill; but he admitted that in a measure of that kind, details and principles were so blended together in the discussion, that it was hardly possible to separate them. Let him first apply himself distinctly to the principle of the Bill. Shortly stated, it was this—that, on the whole, justice was better administered by public servants receiving salaries for the duties performed by them, than by receiving fees for these duties. That was the simple principle of the Bill; and with reference to the administration of justice, it might almost be considered an axiom of which it was altogether superfluous to adduce proof. The Bill before the House proceeded upon that conceded principle; and to that principle, he thought, notwithstanding all that had been said, there could be no serious objection. The application of the principle he admitted to be difficult; but still the principle was, that salaries, on the whole, with reference to the great body of the community—whose interests were involved in the pure and prompt administration of justice—were preferable, as a
 763 764 765 766 767
 Sir J. Graham  observed, that the disastrous case to which the hon. Member had referred, appeared to Government to require special investigation. Two men of science and reputation—Messrs. Faraday and Lyall — had, therefore, been sent down to make inquiries; and the hon. Member was probably aware, that they had made a Report in great detail as to the cause of the catastrophe—they had also suggested certain remedies. Copies of that Report had been sent down to the Lieutenants of counties in which coal mines existed, in order that they might be communicated to the coal-owners, and those coal-owners were invited to give any hints or information. Several objections had thus been stated, and reasons had been given why the proposed remedy would not be efficient or practicable. He had received within the last week three
 727
 Sir R. H. Inglis  would not have troubled the House on the present occasion, and he would only trouble it for a very few minutes, if he did not feel desirous of calling the attention of Her Majesty's Ministers to the Clause of which he had given notice, not so much with a view to their
 748 l. l. l. l. l., l. s. l. l. l. l. l. 749 l. s. R. Peel: l. s. "Provided always, that the said rates and duties shall not be assessed or taken upon any income whatever under the amount of 500 l., l. 750 l. l.
 Sir R. Peel  said: I am really much obliged to the hon. Gentleman for the manner in which he has expressed his opinion upon this question. The hon. Gentleman must see that his observations cannot result in any great good; yet he has put on record his parting malediction, as it were, of this Bill. I will not now enter into the question whether direct taxation is preferable to indirect taxation. I believe it would be extremely difficult to lay down any positive theory in the abstract, for I think that the question, whether direct taxation is preferable to indirect taxation, very much, and materially indeed, depends upon the circumstances of the country. If a country were heavily taxed, and the taxation pressed very grievously upon the industry of the country, and controlled the spirit of enterprise and commerce, and if in that same country property was entirely untaxed, I should think then that a direct taxation upon property might be preferable to a tax upon income. We must know, however, the exact position of the country, the amount of taxation, the way in which it presses, and how it affects particular classes, before we can properly discuss the question whether direct taxation is preferable to indirect taxation. But I feel that if you are to have a tax at all upon property, it ought to be a tax upon income, and not upon accumulated property. I think nothing could be more mischievous in every way than a tax upon accumulated profits—nothing, I think, could be a more dangerous
 754 l. l., 755 756
 Sir R. Peel  would suggest that hon. Members should read the Report of the last Committee, and then they would be able to judge if any further evidence was was required. The hon. Member for Finsbury seemed to have spoken under the impression that there had been no Report. He understood there were two or three different modes of abating the nuisance.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the Lords of the Treasury and the Commissioners of Somerset House were exceedingly desirous to obviate any inconvenience to which those who had to pay this tax might be exposed. If there were sufficient grounds for objection, the party on whom the demand was made might apply to two tribunals—the Special Commissioners and the Commissioners at Somerset House. He trusted that in the case of the hon. Member for Oldham, the Treasury would be able to afford redress. If he understood the hon. Member for Durham, he conceived that the Act gave no option of appeal from the local Commissioners. The Government had appointed the local Commissioners, because they thought that the appointment of Government officers would be less acceptable to the country. At the same time, it was possible that some individuals might have rendered themselves obnoxious in the particular districts in which they resided; but in such cases it was erroneous to suppose that there was no relief, for there was a power of appealing to another authority which could not be influenced by local prejudice, and whose only desire was to do justice.
 Sir W. Clay  could not allow the Bill to pass that stage without again expressing his opinion with respect to it. He thought that any advantages which were offered to the country by the other measures of the right hon. Baronet were purchased at too high a price by the payment of the Income Tax. The objections which were made to the injustice and inequality of this direct taxation in its operation by several hon. Members, had been answered by the right hon. Gentleman opposite in a manner which did not go to prove that the causes of objection were not real and substantial. What was said in reply to the objections to which he alluded? It was, forsooth, said that the hardships which were stated as likely to result from the tax were very severe, but that worse hardships could be pointed to by the Government, and that it was impossible to touch them without super inducing other evils. That was the description of answer which had been given to the statements of hon. Members who objected to the unequal pressure of this tax. Indirect taxation had the advantage of enabling a man to regulate to a certain extent the proportion of the burden to which he should submit himself; for by lessening his consumption of those articles which placed him most directly under the operation of this description of taxation, he could by his own act lessen the amount of it which he was to pay. The assessed taxes on carriages, horses, and such luxuries had
 753
 Mr. Rice  proposed an Amendment, the effect of which would be to equalize the tolls over the whole of the line.
 Mr. Tatton Egerton  opposed the Amendment. He knew that in many cases railway companies were exceedingly anxious to carry third-class passengers at a very cheap rate; but, he believed, if they were obliged to equalize their tolls over the whole of the line, that they could not act so liberally towards the third-class passengers as they would wish to do.
 Mr. Gladstone  should certainly be much surprised if the Committee should come to a very satisfactory conclusion upon this point, for he knew what a variety of conflicting opinions there were with regard to it. He believed that the proposed clause gave no more power to new railway companies than existing companies already possessed; and he felt quite confident, if the Committee carried any Amendment which should have the effect of charging equal rates upon the whole line, that hon. Gentlemen would not even then gain their object. This Bill would be delayed, and the clause would infallibly be expunged in the Private Committees. Look at a very common case upon railways. On the whole, a line might bear, comparatively speaking, a high rate of charge; and at the same time it might be necessary for the convenience of the public that there should be on a particular portion of the same line a very low rate of charge. Take for instance the Manchester and Birmingham Company; between Manchester and Stockport there was of course an immense intercourse, and it was of great consequence that the persons generally travelling there should be subject almost to a nominal rate of charge. Would Parliament interfere and say to that Company, "But you shan't charge at that low rate between Manchester and Stockport, unless you adopt the same rate on the whole of the line from beginning to end?" That was the case of a short distance on a long line. He would next take the case of a long distance. We should soon have a complete chain of railways from London to Edinburgh, Dundee, and on to Aberdeen: now, he thought it desirable that such railways should be enabled to compete with the steam-boats that plied to those places; but that could not be done unless they charged on the "through traffic" a lower rate than they did upon that of some intermediate parts of the line. To refer to the case of canals, he would say, that he knew railway companies possessed some advantages which canals did not. A railway company had the power of being carriers, and of varying their rates. The canals had neither. The question was, should they raise canals to
 780
 Mr. Collett  wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer respecting the payment of the Property Tax on the Three and a Half per Cent. Consols. The tax commenced on the 5th of April, 1842, and it was deducted on the dividends next payable on the Three and a Quarter per Cent. Consols. Now, in consequence of the advance of a quarter made in the payment of dividends on the 5th of October, and as there was no certainty of the ceasing of the Property Tax at any very early period, he wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman whether he intended to exempt the holders of these Consols, on the 5th of July next, from the quarter of a year's Income Tax for which they were in advance.
 Mr. Stafford O'Brien  was quite sure that the suspicion never entered into the minds of hon. Members on his side of the House, that the noble Lord had any intention to apply the quotation which he had made from the sacred writings to any one personally; and he could not help expressing his opinion that it appeared to be far easier to bandy texts and to quote impressive sentences, than to make charitable allowances for those who conscientiously, and with a fair and equitable purpose, happened to arrive at a totally different conclusion from that expressed by the noble Lord and other hon. Members. He should, however, pass to a different part of the subject under discussion, and observe that the noble Lord had, in the latter part of his observations, somewhat relieved the agricultural class from the hard and undeserved aspersions which he had cast upon them in the earlier portion of his speech, by admitting that there were no
 842 843 "A Select Committee to inquire into the causes and extent of the alleged existing agricultural distress, and into the effects of legislative protection upon the interests of landowners, tenant-farmers, and farm labourers." Hansard, "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the extent and causes of the existing agricultural distress. 844 animus animus 845 animus "At a meeting of the Committee of the Market Harborough Agricultural Society, held at the Swan's Inn, Market Harborough, the 11th of March, 1845, it was resolved
 846 "The humble petition, &c., showeth, that your House cannot fail to be aware, that your petitioners have been most materially injured by the late alterations in the Corn Law, the Tariff, and the Canada Corn Importation Act. That all these enactments were passed for the purpose of reducing in price all articles of which your petitioners are the producers, and that to an extent as was, by high authority, stated to be equivalent to the Income Tax. Thus, all classes, not being the producers of articles of food, were stated to be enabled to pay this tax without loss of property. Your petitioners, therefore, beg to remind your hon. House, that their annual returns have thus been further reduced in a sum at least equivalent to the Income Tax, whilst at the same time the occupiers of land have to pay an Income Tax on half the amount of their rent, although it is notorious that at the present, time they derive little profit from the occupation of the soil. Your petitioners complain of this as great injustice." "Your petitioners have carefully examined the financial measures lately introduced into your hon. House, and find that they—the suffering class—have been excluded from any direct benefit in the proposed reduction of
 847 "At a meeting of agriculturists and others, held at the Sun Inn, Ashburton, Devon, this 6th day of March, 1845, it was resolved,—That it is necessary to take some steps towards relieving the agricultural interest from the depressed state to which it has reached; that the distress is greatly increased by many burdens which fall almost exclusively on that interest; that among the heaviest of these burdens are the poor and highway rates, which in the opinion of this meeting should be made a national charge, inasmuch as it falls very severely on the agricultural interest to maintain those labourers which are thrown on them by the manufacturing interest when the manufacturers cannot profitably employ them, whereas the agriculturists must provide for theirs, and the reasonable course appears to be that all classes should contribute towards the maintenance of the poor and highways, which would be the case if it was made a tax on the nation at large, the incomes from the funds, railroads, and other sources having then to contribute towards the relief of destitution, accidents, &c., which must constantly occur under the existing enterprise and circumstances of this country." 848 "That your petitioners have viewed with regret that the financial measures which have lately been introduced into your hon. House by the First Minister of the Crown do not give the least hope that they are to participate in the proposed reduction of taxation in an equal degree with other parts of the community. Your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray your hon. House to review the said financial scheme, and thereby give that assistance which your petitioners are so fairly and justly entitled to." "We beg to express our fervent hope, that the members of this Society, and the tenant-farmers of Shropshire generally, will not suffer the good effects of this great demonstration,"—that was the dinner at Freemasons' Hall—"to be lost for want of energetic co-operation. Let them join the protective societies as one man; if they continue apathetic, or divided, inevitable ruin awaits them. United, they become invulnerable. The want of united resistance has occasioned all their distress; and that this great failing is known to their enemies, is proved by an extract from the speech delivered by Mr. Bright, the Member for Durham, on Monday, the 3rd of this month:—'But farmers are generally quiet men, and afraid to speak their minds and act up to their convictions; but he trusted that the time would come when they would show greater independence of spirit.' Let us show Mr. Bright and his fellow Leaguers, that the time is come, and that instead of attacking our landlords, and their agents, as he kindly advises us, we are determined to unite with them in resisting the attacks of a party who seem determined to achieve their own selfish ends, thought it might cause the ruin of every other interest in the State; and, lest we should be unable to unite efficiently, mark the value and truth of his next sentence—'They (the farmers) should unite together to obtain deliverance from those evils which were forced upon them in consequence of their own neglect of their own interests.'" 849 850 Howick: 851 852
 Lord Worsley  was anxious to address the House, because it was said that many hon. Members would be disposed to vote against this Motion, because it was proposed by a Member of the Anti-Corn Law League. That was not the reason which induced him to vote against it. He would have equally objected to the Motion of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. S. O'Brien), if he had brought it forward, because he thought that those Committees would only have the effect of raising hopes which would ultimately be disapointed. In 1836 a similar Committee was appointed, which was presided over by the right hon. the Speaker of this House, and notwithstanding that it had sat from April to June they came to no satisfactory decision. He was of opinion, however, that there was not only great distress, but very general distress amongst the agricultural classes; but he held that such a Committee as was now called for would only be holding out false hopes both to the tenant farmers and the agricultural labourers, and on those grounds he would oppose the Motion of the hon. Member for Stockport. The general opinion amongst the farmers certainly was that this distress was in consequence of the alterations which had been made in the Corn Laws and the Tariff by the present Parliament. If he was right in this belief, he could not see what result they could hope to gain from such an inquiry as was now called for.
 Colonel Anson  wished to offer an explanation of a mistake into which he had fallen, on the presentation of a petition from Lichfield, which was agreed to at a public meeting yesterday. He was mistaken in stating that it referred to the sliding scale adopted by the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government. He was sure the House would not accuse him of making any wilful misrepresentation. The petition had
 878 "At a special meeting of the Wolverhampton Agricultural Protection Society (duly convened), held at the Swan Hotel, on Wednesday, February, 26, 1844, the Earl of Dartmouth in the chair, proposed by Mr. Robinson, seconded by Mr. Whitgreave, and resolved unanimously,—'That this meeting rejoices to know that the manufacturing interests are in a state of prosperity; and regrets not only the ruinous condition of agriculture, but that a necessity exists for declaring that such distress is not local but general, arising from the unremunerating price which grain produces. That in the opinion of this meeting the landed property of the kingdom must be confiscated, and the capital of the tenantry sacrificed, unless they receive adequate protection against Foreign competition, or unless reductions are made in the fixed charges of the country equivalent to those which have been made in the products of industry. That the imposition of an Income Tax on assumed profit where none exists is an act of extreme injustice and oppression.' Proposed by Dr. Mannix, seconded by Mr. Oatley: resolved unanimously,—'That the sliding scale, however inadequate, was considered by the agriculturist as the amount or rate of his protection; but that in consequence of the Canadian Corn Law virtually admitting wheat from the United States free of duty, that scale of protection has been rendered nearly inoperative, and is, therefore, to a certain degree deceptive.'" 879
 Mr. S. Herbert  trusted the hon. Member for Norfolk, who had given notice of an Amendment, would allow him, as it would probably be for the convenience of the House, to state thus early what course the Government thought themselves bound to pursue with regard to the Motion of the hon. Member for Stockport. The speech
 811 812 "The landlords in every part of the United Kingdom, though in different degrees, have met the fall of price by a reduction of rent, except where during the war the rents on their estates had not been raised, or where by a large expenditure of capital, permanent improvements had enriched the nature of the soil itself. "The spread of the drill system of husbandry, a better rotation of cropping, a more judicious use of manures, especially of bones, extensive draining, improvement in the breed both of cattle and sheep, have all contributed to counterbalance the fall of price, and to sustain that surplus profit in the culture of the soil on which rent depends." 813 "In Ireland as far as the growing demand of the English market extends, agriculture is improving, the growth of wheat is rapidly increasing, and the gross amount of produce is considerably augmented. "The demand for lime and for manure is great throughout the province of Leinster; new roads have been formed, the inland navigation has been improved, the soil is fertile; and a progressive increase of the supply of wheat from Ireland may be anticipated. "With the war, however, the great contracts for salt provisions, which were drawn from Ireland, terminated; and it is doubtful whether any present demand from England for corn compensates for the loss which Ireland thus sustained." l. l. 814 815 Villiers: 816 817 Cobden: s., s., 818 819 820
 Lord G. Somerset  thought it would be better to leave the matter entirely to the
 782
 Lord G. Somerset  really did not think that this was a matter which it became them to discuss. It would be quite an era in legislation, and should be originated in
 783
 Lord G. Somerset  said, the suggestion seemed to be that the railway companies charged only according to the amount of competition with which they had to contend—that they charged as high as they could where there was no competition, and as little as possible where there was competition. That might be so; but he believed that if Parliament attempted to equalize the charge upon the whole of the line, the company would take good care to charge sufficiently high, so that on the whole the charges would probably be higher than they were at present. He
 779
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that his hon. and gallant Friend had mistaken the meaning of the clause, which was simply intended to punish the guilty person. By the preceding clause the public had a remedy against the company, and this clause then came in to give the company a remedy against their servant.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, this was by no means a novel proposal. The matter had been considered very anxiously in several railway committees. It had been felt always to be a case of considerable difficulty, and it was thought to be one which could be better argued on a general, than on a particular case. The object of the clause was, if possible, to equalize the charge with the expense, so that more might be charged where the cost of maintenance was very heavy than on a part where the cost was very light. He had certainly received a great many communications upon this subject from gentlemen connected with the Medway Navigation, and he must say that he thought the opposition to this clause had originated with that company. He trusted, however, that the Committee would support the clause.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, he believed there was an Act of Parliament somewhere compelling carriers speedily to deliver up goods intrusted to them to carry. He wanted to know why there was not a similar clause here?
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, he should like to know what protection would be afforded to the public by such a clause as that.
 781
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, if they stopped travelling by railways on Sunday, they should also extend the principle to omnibuses.
 Mr. C. P. Villiers  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down began his speech by remarking on what had fallen from his noble Friend the Member for Sunderland, and characterized his speech as one worthy only of the days of Cromwell. Now, the hon. Member must allow him (Mr. Villiers) to retort on him an observation upon the peculiarities of his own speech, which he must say was characteristic of the present day and of no other—it was indicative of the class to which he belonged—which he represented—and which, he must be allowed to say, showed manifest signs of decline and decay; and under these circumstances he must agree in the reasonableness of the hon. Gentleman's own remark, that it would be a fortunate thing for him if no other opportunity was offered to him of again expressing his sentiments to that House. The hon. Member must not take offence at what he said, for he was not very nice himself in his criticisms. He had just made some allusions to the respect for truth on the part of his opponents that were not over courteous; he had referred to his (Mr. Villiers') own statement on a former occasion on matters connected with the subject before the House, questioning their correctness—charging them with exaggeration, almost hinting that they were known to him (Mr. Villiers) to be incorrect. Now, with reference to those statements, he must contend that they were strictly correct, and defy the hon. Member to disprove them. He referred on that occasion to the year 1797, as a year of great embarrassment, and in which the labourers were ill off—the hon. Gentleman says, it was far from a period of distress. [Mr.  Wodehouse: 868 Wodehouse: Wodehouse: 869 870 from the Ministerial Benches. 871 872 s. s. R. Peel: 873 874
 Mr. Wodehouse  had no disposition to say anything in dispraise of the speech of the hon. Member for Stockport, nor of the truly comical speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down. His mind was determinedly made up to vote against the Committee; and for this reason, that men's minds were unsettled enough already, and if the proposed Committee were granted, they would never become settled again so long as the world lasted. The speech of the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland reminded him of the days of Cromwell. He had never heard a more accomplished ranter. The noble Lord was mistaken if he supposed that he (Mr. Wodehouse) had the least intention to shrink from entering into the fullest defence of the law by which protective duties had been imposed. He defied the noble Lord to deny that during the continuance of the Corn Laws, the commercial ascendency of this country had increased to a pitch that defied all comparison with any former period of our history or with the history of any other State. Then take the advantage of the Corn Law in a national point of view. Fifty years had passed during which the country had never suffered from the visitation of famine, and that could not be said of any other State in Europe. The noble Lord had alluded particularly to the Prohibitory Act of 1815; but he must remind the noble Lord of the time and the circumstances under which it was introduced. Though
 864 s., s. "There is not a pretence for asserting that when provisions are high, the agricultural labourer is well off. The contrary has always been the case whenever such periods have occurred; as in 1797, a year of great scarcity and high prices." s.; s.; s. "Whenever provisions have been low, the labourers have been well off; great demand for their labour, and their wages have given them a greater command over the necessaries of life." "On comparing these statements respecting the wages, subsistence, and mortality of those portions of continental Europe which have furnished returns, with the corresponding statements respecting England, it will be found that, on every point, England stands in the most favourable, or nearly the most favourable, position. With respect to money wages, the superiority of the English agricultural
 865 "We believe that the generally diffused opinion, that the rate of wages depends on the price of provisions, owes its origin to the fact, that the price of provisions mainly depends on the rate of wages. The labourers constitute in all countries an overwhelming majority. Their wages form the great fund out of which the price of provisions must come, and their wages also form the principal element in the cost of producing provisions. The administration of the old Poor Law facilitated the error which we have been exposing. Under the unhappy system prevalent during the forty years immediately preceding the Poor Law Amendment Act, a large portion of the labourers of England were treated, not as freemen, but as slaves, or domestic animals, and received, not, strictly speaking, wages, regulated by the value of their labour, but rations proportioned to their supposed wants." "In the case of a working man in a foreign country receiving wages of 6 s. s. s. s. 866 "It having been said that the great article of expenditure in the navigation of a ship is the wages; have you any suggestion to offer whereby that onerous charge could be reduced? Would any remedy such as you have already suggested produce any effect in bringing the rate of wages paid in a British ship to the same rate that is paid in a foreign ship?" "It is impossible to say, because there is a great variety of foreign ships, and a great variety of rates of wages and qualities of food in foreign ships; but if the price of provisioning the ship be greatly reduced, and at the same time provisions were made generally cheaper to the country [Cheers], and wages in general reduced, I can have no doubt that sailors' wages would fall with the rest." "Do I understand you, in the opinion you have given, to contemplate placing the workmen of this country on the same, or nearly the same footing as the workmen of other countries?" "I do not conceive that it is so clear a case that those trades would be annihilated if the protection was taken from them as a part of a general system of relinquishing all protection; but I am far from supposing that a change from a totally free system would not make many changes in the employment of the industry of this country; and it is possible that that change might lead to the relinquishing of some branches of the silk, and even of the cotton manufacture." juste milieu 867
 Mr. Horsman  supported the Amendment. The companies in making their different tolls were actuated, not so much, he believed, by a regard to the cost of maintaining particular parts of the line, but that they acted rather in relation to the amount of competition that they had to deal with. If a canal competed for ten or twelve miles, or more, with a railway, on that distance the tolls would be exceedingly low; so as to enable the company to carry goods cheaper than the canal; but to make up for that, they would place a higher rate upon that part of the line where there was little or no competition.
 Mr. Bankes  would confine himself strictly to the point before the House—namely, whether they should have a Committee to consider the distress prevailing in the country, and the propriety of giving protection to agriculture. Now it was tolerably certain that the annual Motion of the hon. Member who had just spoken would not be denied to them this year, whether they had a Committee or not. They knew, moreover, that, in respect to other matters affecting the agricultural interests, particularly as connected with the prevailing distress, there were other Motions in prospect—one standing on the Book for to-morrow. With these several opportunities likely so soon to happen of discussing the more general principles which applied to the question of agricultural protection, he asked whether it was either necessary or expedient to accede to the hon. Member's proposition for the appointment of a Select Committee? Giving the hon. Member for Stockport full credit for his candour, he still must beg leave to observe also that the agricultural interest would not receive with satisfaction whatever a Committee proposed by the hon. Member might promulgate. With regard to the question of protection, and the interests of agriculture, as well as the distress under which that interest suffered, they would to-morrow have an opportunity of considering that subject upon the Motion which his hon. Friend the Member for Somersetshire intended to submit to the House. He did not see that any advantage whatever could arise from withdrawing this discussion from the House, and confining it to the discussion of fifteen select Members of the House. Instead of being limited in that narrow way, he thought that the question was one in every way entitled to the consideration of Parliament itself. He could not see the necessity of retiring into a private room to consider a
 875 876 877
 Mr. Darby  must oppose the Amendment, for he believed that if acceded to
 778
 Mr. Muntz  said, no doubt the hon. Gentlemen who had spoken were quite sincere in their pious professions; but he knew that there were persons who could not afford themselves any relaxation or fresh air except upon a Sunday, and he looked upon it as a great advantage that those persons now had an opportunity of getting into the country at a cheap rate upon a Sunday. If they stopped this practice, they should not allow any gentleman's carriages to travel the streets on a Sunday, otherwise there would be one law for the rich and another for the poor. He submitted to the noble Lord that this was not a matter for the Committee to interfere in.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, there would be no reason for exempting the holders of the Three per Cent. Consols from the Income Tax payable on their dividends due at the time alluded to, as during the period of three years they would have paid the tax on six dividends, which was the proper proportion in which they should have paid during that time. In the case of the holders of the Three and a Quarter per Cent. Consols, who had the time of paying their dividends changed from one quarter to another, there would be an evident injustice in obliging them to pay an extra quarter's Income Tax; and a Bill had been accordingly introduced last year for the purpose of giving them credit for the quarter's payment made by them.
 Mr. Bright  said, that if he had entered that House with any doubt upon his mind as to the propriety of the vote he ought to give on the Motion before them, that doubt must have been entirely dissipated upon hearing the speech of the hon.
 853 854 d. s. 855 "He wished he could congratulate them in every respect; but, although the agricultural interest was labouring under a depression which none could deny, he would still congratulate them that the combined opposition which had been made against protection to agriculture had weakened rather than strengthened any unfavourable impression towards them. The philosophers who cried out for free trade, which would operate to the ruin of others, would very religiously exclude it from themselves. Protection was for them and them alone." 856 "But their opponents were not stronger than they were two years ago—their meetings were less numerously attended—their subscriptions had diminished in amount." "Their meetings were less numerously attended—their subscription lists were diminished both in number and amount—and their performances at the Theatre Royal, Covent Garden, which at first produced such a sensation throughout the country, were now looked upon as being less legitimate than the drama, and not quite as amusing or instructive." "Standing before them as their Representative, he was ready to justify every vote that he had given. Nor would he make any excuse for supporting the present Corn Law. He was persuaded that the protection under the old law was inordinate, and could never be maintained. He had even thought that 20 s. "He now thought that protection was not a whit larger than the agriculturists had a right to demand. The present law possessed this advantage—it rallied round it many who would have stood at a distance if the protection had been higher: it had also a greater stability; for no dispassionate man, looking at the burdens of the agriculturist, could say that it ought to be less. There was, moreover, a
 857 s. S. Herbert: d. 858 859 860 861 s. s. s. s. 862 s. s. 863
 Mr. Plumptre  referred to the practice of excursion trips on Sundays. Hundreds and thousands of persons were upon the Sabbath frequently carried into towns and suburban districts, to an extent which it was fearful to contemplate in a Christian country. He would suggest, humbly but forcibly, that this travelling on the Lord's day should be put an end to.
 Mr. Brotherton  thought it very desirable that there should be a uniformity of charge upon the whole of any line. See how the contrary would act; suppose that thirty miles from some large town through which the railway passed there was a colliery, and that ten miles further off there was another colliery; the company might purchase the nearer one, or might make the tolls upon the first thirty miles exceedingly low; but in order to prevent the coals from the other colliery coming into competition, they might place an exceedingly heavy toll upon that ten miles between the two collieries. Such a thing would be manifestly unjust; but he believed that something of the sort was practised now to a very great extent.
 Mr. Cobden  having presented a petition in favour of his Motion for a Committee of Inquiry, addressed the House as follows:—Sir, I am relieved upon the present occasion from any necessity for apologizing to the other side of the House for the Motion which I am about to submit. It will be in the recollection of hon. Members, that a fortnight before putting this Notice upon the Book, I expressed a hope that the matter would be taken up by some hon. Member opposite. I do not think, therefore, that in reply to any observations that I may have to make upon the question, I shall hear, as I did last year, an observation that the quarter from which this Motion came was suspicious. I may also add, Sir, that I have so framed my Motion as to include in it the objects embraced in both the Amendments which are made to it; I therefore conclude, that having included the hon. Gentlemen's Amendments (Mr. Stafford O'Brien and Mr. Wodehouse), they will not now feel it necessary to press them. Sir, the object of this Motion is to appoint a Select Committee to inquire into the present condition of the agricultural interests; and, at the same time, to ascertain how the laws regulating the importation of agricultural produce have affected the agriculturists of this country. As regards the distress among farmers, I presume we cannot go to a higher authority than those hon. Gentlemen who profess to be the farmers' friends and protectors. I find it stated by those hon. Gentlemen who recently paid their respects to the Prime Minister, that the agriculturists are in a state of great embarrassment and distress. I find that one gentleman from Norfolk (Mr. Hudson) stated that the farmers in the county are paying their rents, but paying them out of capital, and not profits. I find Mr. Turner, of Upton, in Devonshire, stating that one-half of the smaller farmers in that county are insolvent, and that the others are rapidly falling into the same condition; that the farmers with larger holdings are quitting their farms with a view of saving the rest of their property: and that, unless some remedial measures be adopted by this House, they will be utterly ruined. The accounts which I have given you of those districts are such as I have had from many other sources, I put it to hon. Gentlemen opposite, whether
 786 "Was there any man who had supported the law in the year 1842 who could honestly say that he had been disappointed in its workings?
 787 s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. 788 l. l. l. l. l. 789 "He knew this country well, and he knew that there was not a place from Plymouth to Berwick in which the landlords might not make improvements; but when the tenant was short of money, the landlord generally would be short of money too. But he would tell them how to find funds. There were many districts where there was a great superfluity not only of useless but of mischievous timber, and if they would cut that down which excluded the sun and air and fed on the soil, and sell it, they would benefit the farmer by cutting it down, and they would benefit the farmer, and the labourer too, by laying out the proceeds in under-draining the soil. There was another mode in which they might find money. He knew that on some properties a large sum was spent in the preservation of game. It was not at all unusual for the game to cost 500 l. l. 790 "He was aware that a spirit of improvement was abroad. Much was said about the tenant-farmers doing more. He agreed they might do more; the soil of the country was capable of greater production; if he said one fourth more he should be within compass. But that could not be done by the tenant-farmer alone; they must have confidence; it must be done by leases; by draining; by extending the length of fields; by knocking down hedge-rows and clearing away trees which now shielded the corn." "I say, and as one connected with the land I feel myself bound to say it, that a landlord has no right to expect any great and permanent improvement of his land by the tenant, unless that tenant be secured the repayment of his outlay, not by the personal character or honour of his landlord, but by a security which no casualties can interfere with—the security granted him by the terms of a lease for years." 791 "It is most desirable for the farmer to know the actual quantity of corn grown in this country, as such knowledge would insure steadiness of prices, which was infinitely more valuable to the agriculturist than fluctuating prices. But to ascertain this there was extreme difficulty. They could not leave it to the farmer to make a return of the quantity which he produced, for it was not for his interest to do so. If in any one or two years he produced four quarters per acre on land which had previously grown but three, he might fear that his landlord would say, 'Your land is more productive than I imagined, and I must therefore raise your rent.' The interest of the farmers, therefore, would be to underrate, and to furnish low returns." "He knew it had been thought that landlords were ready to avail themselves of such associations, on account of the opportunity it afforded them for diving into their tenants' affairs, and opening their eyes. An instance of this occurred to him at a recent ploughing match, where he met a respectable agriculturist whom he well knew, and asked him if he was going to it. He said, 'No.' 'Why?' Because he did not approve of such things. This 'why' produced another 'why,' and the man gave a reason why. Suppose he sent a plough and man with two superior horses, the landlord at once would say, 'This man is doing too well on my estate,' and increase the rent." 792 Christopher: "To pay the landlord 20 l. l. l. l. l. 793 C. Burrell; l. l. l. Chancellor of the Exchequer: 794 795 "The argument has again and again been used against an extension of leases, that the tenants themselves set no value upon them; but to how different a conclusion ought the existence of such a feeling amongst the tenantry of a country to conduct us! The fact itself shows that the absence of leases may render a tenantry ignorant of the means of employing their own capital with advantage, indisposed to the exertions which improvements demand, and better contented with an easy rent and dependent condition than with the prospect of an independence to be earned by increased exertion." 796 "The more I see of and practise agriculture, the more firmly am I convinced that the whole unemployed labour of the country could, under a better system of husbandry, be advantageously put into operation; and moreover, that the Corn Laws have been one of the principal causes of the present system of bad farming, and consequent pauperism. Nothing short of their entire removal will ever induce the average farmer to rely upon anything else than the Legislature for the payment of his rent; his belief being that all rent is paid by corn, and nothing else than corn; and that the Legislature can, by enacting Corn Laws, create a price which will make his rent easy. The day of their (the Corn Laws) entire abolition ought to be a day of jubilee and rejoicing to every man interested in land." l. l. 797 798 799 l., s., s. s. l. l.; l. 800 l. l. s. l. 801 802 s. s. s. s. s. l. 803 s. s. 804 s. s.; d d., 805 s.; 806 "West Suffolk Agricultural Association, established in 1833, for the advancement of agriculture and the encouragement of industry and skill, and good conduct, among labourers and servants in husbandry, President—the Duke of Grafton, Lord Lieutenant of the county; This is to certify that a prize of 2 l, (Signed) RT. RUSHBROOKE, Chairman." 807 "Conciliate your employers, and if they do not perform their duty to you and themselves, address yourselves to the landlords; and I assure you that you will find us ready to urge our own tenants to the proper cultivation of their farms, and consequently, to the just employment of the labourer." 808 s. s.; 809 810
 Mr. Cobden : I have only to remark that the course of this debate has been very much what I expected, and so, I believe, will the result of the division. A Member of the Government rose immediately on my sitting down, and intercepted two or three hon. Members on the Protection Benches. A right hon. Gentleman, a Member of the Cabinet, gave the cue, and it has been, I must say, very ably taken. The noble Lord who has just
 880 l. 881 s. s. Morning Herald,
 Mr. Spooner  earnestly joined in the recommendation of his hon. Friend the Member for East Kent (Mr. Plumptre). It frequently happened that an immense train of persons entered into a quiet country place just as divine service was about to commence, much to the annoyance of all well-disposed persons. Such a desecration of the Sabbath was a disgrace to a Christian country, and he called upon the noble Lord, as a Christian legislator, to do something which should stop such a practice, fraught, as it must be with evil to the morals of the country.
 Mr. Spooner  said, his chief object was to put a stop to those "pleasure trains," as they were called, or to take care that they should not arrive at or depart from a place just at the time of divine service.
 Mr. Entwisle  said, that the whole of the arguments which had been urged against the clause seemed to be based upon the supposition that the railway companies acted in some other capacity than that of mere railway owners; either that they owned collieries or were opposed to some canal; without those admissions it appeared to him that the arguments in support of the Amendment would be quite untenable.
 Mr. Hayter  said, if there were an Act regulating carriers, he should imagine that the same law would relate to one carrier as to another.
 Mr. Hayter  thought that the difficulty might very easily be obviated, by having two hands on the station clocks; one denoting the time at Greenwich, and the other denoting the time at another place.
 Mr. Mackinnon  wished to call the attention of the noble Lord to a subject which appeared to him to be of great importance, and with regard to which he had consulted some very eminent engineers — he alluded to the necessity for having some correct and certain standard of time. One degree of longitude made a difference of about four minutes in time, and Dublin time was about fourteen minutes later than London time, and when lines of railway should be carried far into the West of Ireland, there would be a difference of about twenty-five minutes in the time. He did not mean to propose any Resolution; but he thought it right to allude to the subject, because the inconvenience that must result, unless something were done, must be very great, especially in cases where there were many branches running into the main line.
 Mr. Pakington  supported the Amendment, and begged to direct the attention of the Committee to the injurious effect which the clause as it stood would have upon canal companies. In answer to the argument of his noble Friend, that some portions of the line cost more to maintain than others, and that consequently on those parts higher rates should be charged than on the other parts, he should say, let the railway companies ascertain the cost of working the whole of their line, and then apportion it equally, so as to secure themselves, whilst they extended the charge over the whole of the line.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, in answer to his noble Friend, he should beg to state that the trustees had since then considered the subject, and that Her Majesty's Government had also given it their consideration. The opinion of all parties was, that the law, as it at present stood, was confessedly defective, and that it afforded no protection for valuable works of art. The Government, therefore, intended to propose to the House a Billon the subject. They were at present in communication with his hon. Friend the Solicitor General about the preparation of the Bill for that purpose, and he trusted that they would be able to lay it on the Table at an early day.
 Sir Robert Peel  might take that opportunity of observing that an error, at which he was not at all surprised, had gone abroad with respect to some observations that had fallen from him during the recent debate on the New Zealand
 784
 Viscount Howick  said, he regretted that the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had refused to agree to the inquiry which had been proposed by the hon. Member for Stockport; and he should add that he thought the grounds which the right hon. Gentleman had assigned for opposing that inquiry were altogether insufficient. The right hon. Gentleman had told the House, that Committees to inquire into agricultural distress were of no use. That was, indeed, a new doctrine with hon. Gentlemen opposite; for he remembered the time when the appointment of Committees to inquire into agricultural distress was a favourite proposition with them. He denied the fact that—judging from experience—it could be said Committees to inquire into agricultural distress were useless. The right hon. Gentleman opposite had truly said, that some of the early Committees to inquire into this subject had made Reports recommending measures which it was most fortunate were not adopted; but let the House remember that the very fact of knowing the views of those former Committees on the subject was by no means without its use; and that the Report of a later Committee than that to which the right hon. Gentleman alluded was most important in its bearing on the question before them. The very first step which was taken in altering the system of protection established by the Act of 1815, grew out of the Report of a Committee, the majority of whose Members was composed of country Gentlemen; and it was worthy of remark,
 821 S. Herbert: 822 823 "The Committee of 1821 expressed a hope 'that the great body of the occupiers of the soil, either from the savings of more prosperous times, or from the credit which punctuality commands in this country, possess resources which will enable them to surmount the difficulties under which they now labour.' Your Committee, with deep regret, are bound rather to express a fear that the difficulties alone remain unchanged; but that the savings are either gone or greatly diminished—the credit failing, and the resources being generally exhausted; and this opinion is formed, not on the evidence of rent-payers, but many most respectable witnesses, as well owners of land as surveyors and land agents." 824 825 826 827 828 829 830 831 primâ facie 832 833 834 835 836 837 838 839 Indications of dissent from the Ministerial side. 'Behold, the hire of the labourers which have reaped down your fields, which is of you kept back by fraud, crieth: and the cries of them which have reaped are entered into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth.' 840 841
 Viscount Ingestre  begged to correct a mistake into which the hon. Member for Wolverhampton had fallen. The noble Lord to whom he referred as presiding at the meeting in Staffordshire was not, as stated, Lord Lieutenant of the county. The hon. Gentleman also referred to Resolutions passed at the county town of the county which he represented. Now these Resolutions complained, not of the sliding scale, but of protection being withdrawn, and of the burdens which pressed on the agricultural interest.
 Viscount Mahon  wished to renew the question which he had before put to the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government with respect to the preservation of works of art, arising out of the recent destruction of the Portland Vase. The House were aware that the punishment inflicted by the police magistrates on the individual who destroyed that valuable monument of antiquity was on account of the destruction, not of the vase itself, but of the glass case by which it was covered. When he before mentioned the subject in the House, his right hon. Friend said that the trustees of the British Museum were about holding a meeting on the subject; and that it would be advisable that that meeting should take place before any discussion was had on the subject in Parliament. That meeting having been since held, he now wished to know from his right hon. Friend, whether it was in contemplation to introduce any measure during the present Session for the better protection or better preservation of works of art.
 Sir D. Norreys  objected to the enormous powers given by the clause to engineers; the less care an engineer took in laying out his plans the greater was the latitude given to him by the Bill.
 Mr. Tatton Egerton  remarked, that many special Acts gave greater powers of this description than the Bill under consideration.
 Mr. Tatton Egerton  proposed an Amendment, giving parties whose property was taken, the option of arbitration or an appeal to a jury. Juries were usually, he thought, biased, and decided against private parties, and in favour of companies. His object, therefore, was to secure a fair trial before an arbitrator, if a party preferred it.
 Mr. Tatton Egerton  said, that if the option were also given to the company, the company would, in all cases, be guided in making its choice by the fact whether they could get a jury or an arbitrator most favourable to them. Small landowners were constantly bullied by
 890
 Mr. Bernal  thought that it was desirable that the question should be at once decided. On the first glance of the Motion of his hon. Friend, it would appear as if his proposition involved the imposition of a burden on the public in the shape of the drawback; and if that was the case, it was clear that it must originate in a Committee of Ways and Means. He did not say that this was the case, but it certainly appeared so on the face of the Resolutions. He was sure that there was no wish to evade the question; therefore it would be better at once to determine what step should be taken.
 Lord J. Russell : I am very glad to hear the declaration which has just been made by the right hon. Gentleman at the head of Her Majesty's Government. When the Government proposed their arrangement as to stocks on hand, I did not believe they were actuated by any motive whatever that might bear the character of hardship to individuals or to interests. I believed them actuated by no other motive than that stated by the right hon. Gentleman himself (Sir R. Peel)—a sense of public duty. I think the case which has been stated by my right hon. Friend near me (Mr. F. T. Baring) is the case which the right hon. Gentleman (Sir R. Peel) has taken into his consideration; that it is, in fact, an exception to the general rule. And I think it is to be understood as a case worthy of relief, provided, firstly, that it stands solely upon its own peculiar circumstances; and secondly, that in the giving of that relief fraud cannot be committed. Such, then, being the case, I think my hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth cannot do better than at once to leave the matter in the hands of the Government.
 Mr. Williams  said, he did not see the justice of the distinction made between parties who had sugars under the Government lock and those who had removed them to their own warehouses, both having equally paid the duty. He hoped an equitable compensation would be made in every case where loss could be proved to have been sustained.
 Mr. James  hoped he might be allowed to say one word in explanation, even although it interfered for a moment with the hon. Gentleman's reply. With reference to the speech of the hon. Member for Durham, he could tell him that when he became Chancellor of the Exchequer—which God forbid!—if he attempted to take off a protective duty on West India produce, that the planters could not continue to cultivate their properties, and that our market would be supplied by slave sugar. Not a farthing of the reduction of duties would go into the pockets of the planters; every sixpence of reduction would benefit the consumers.
 Mr. Hope , in answer to the questions of the noble Lord, begged leave, in the first place, to say, that the alarm expressed by the noble Lord in reference to the possible demoralization of the population in the West Indies and Mauritius, in consequence of the intended immigration, was quite unfounded. The fact was, that from the Papers which he proposed to produce to the House, it was quite apparent that no such apprehension could reasonably be entertained, the number of labourers which could be drawn from Africa being so very limited. With respect to immigration, a statement had gone abroad that in the Mauritius there was not work to be found for the labourers introduced. This was, however, quite a mistake. There was an ample demand for labour there; but there had been some labourers
 932
 Mr. Hope  could state with confidence that it was quite a misunderstanding that any such instructions as those alluded to by the hon. Gentleman had been issued by the Colonial Office. The instructions which had been sent out were laid before Parliament. He had, however, before heard the statement made by the hon. Gentleman. He had made inquiries, and he had ascertained that any difficulties which might have existed in the way of procuring labourers had been originated
 933
 Mr. Hope  should have stated that as to the guarantee no decision had yet been come to by the Government.
 Mr. Miles  wished to know whether he was to understand that the Customs' Duties Bill would not come on till Monday. He was most anxious that the subject should be brought forward with as little delay as possible. He found that all kinds of aspersions and taunts had been flung upon him and the Gentlemen with whom he acted. They had been accused of enacting a sham fight. At any rate, he wished to show that there might be one or two of them who really wanted a fair stand-up fight.
 Lord J. Russell : As the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Miles) has given notice of a Motion, which I am rather inclined to think, with the hon. Member for Stockport, will be a sham one, I wish to ask whether there is any measure which he wishes to propose? There is a vote about to be taken on cotton wool, which will remit 700,000 l., 936
 Mr. Miles  said, if the noble Lord (Russell) would look at the Resolution, he would find that it clearly stated—"That in the application of surplus revenue towards relieving the burdens of the country, due regard should be had to the necessity of affording relief to the agricultural interest." It was not his intention at all to interfere with the remission of certain taxes; but it was his duty, as he conceived, to lay before the House, previously to its agreeing to any further reduction of taxes, the state of the agricultural interest. He conceived it to be likewise his duty to point out to the Government, that though it was impossible for them directly to remit taxes, yet there were indirect means by which they could relieve the agricultural interest from a taxation which peculiarly pressed upon it—he alluded particularly to the county rates. He should ask the House to consent to remit this rate; and that remission would amount to about 400,000 l.
 Mr. H. Hinde  agreed with a great portion of what had been stated by the hon. Member opposite. He had no objection to a preliminary inquiry. However, he believed that under the motives of his hon. Friend there lurked a desire to delay General Railway Bills. The Board of Trade had reported in favour of those railways in every sense; but in a mercantile point of view, the witnesses who had been examined did not go the length of the Board of Trade in the opinions which they had expressed with respect to the disadvantage of this railway in a mercantile point of view. If this were merely a matter of philosophic inquiry, it might be a proper subject to refer to the inquiry of a Select Committee.
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  said, he was sensible of the difficulty of getting a Committee impartially constituted; but if there were any possibility of good arising out of it, he hoped the Government would not oppose the Motion.
 Lord G. Somerset  was willing to consent to the introduction of the Amendment, if the option between an arbitrator and a jury were not confined to the private party, but given to the company also.
 Lord G. Somerset  did not pretend to say what an appeal of the sort might cost; an  ex-parte
 Lord G. Somerset  apprehended that such an Amendment would be greatly in favour of companies who could afford to appeal, and against private parties who, perhaps, had not funds to enable them to pursue the case into the Court above. The practical effect must be to compel parties to resort to arbitration, in order to avoid the expense and inconvenience of a lawsuit.
 Lord G. Somerset  did not agree by any means in the general censure passed upon juries for partiality to railway companies. He doubted whether the landowner would be benefited by arbitration as much as was expected. He contended that if the option were given, it ought in fairness to be given to both parties.
 Lord G. Somerset  urged that allowance ought to be made for engineers, who might not be able in the first instance to lay out their plans and lines with as much exactness as afterwards. He could not consent to modify the clause more than he proposed by his Amendments in the hands of the clerk.
 Lord G. Somerset  added that such was the main object of his Amendments to the clause. He intended also to give private parties the Common Law remedy against nuisances, if companies erected brick kilns, coke ovens, or other annoyances near a mansion.
 Lord G. Somerset  observed that if his hon. and gallant Friend's Amendments were adopted, the clause would be valueless. He hoped that they would not be pressed; but that a solemn protest such as that just entered would be deemed sufficient.
 Lord G. Somerset  introduced an Amendment the better to secure mansions, ornamental grounds, and private roads from invasion by railway companies. It also altered the distance from 1,000 yards to 500 yards, with some minor changes of the same kind.
 Lord John Russell  said, the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies had made a statement which he did not clearly understand. What was it that the hon. Gentleman proposed to do? to lay certain Papers on the Table and take no further step? was that the course which he meant to adopt?
 Lord John Russell  said, that there was a subject intimately connected with the measures under discussion, relative to which he had addressed the House upon a former occasion, and with respect to which he thought that Parliament ought to have the fullest possible information. He alluded to the means used, or to be used, to enable proprietors in the West Indies and the Mauritius to command an increased supply of labour. He considered this an especially important question to this country, which had done so much for the destruction of slavery and the improvement of the condition of the labouring population in our West India Colonies. The country had a right to know all the steps which had been taken on the subject. Now, he had received letters in reference to this matter from many parties who slated that they had relations acting as missionaries in the West Indies and Mauritius, and that these gentlemen were much afraid of the effect upon the present Colonial population which the character of the proposed labourers would probably produce. When he spoke upon the subject before, he particularly adverted to Jamaica, and the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer told him that there existed no loan for the purposes of immigration into Jamaica. He believed that this statement was quite correct; but then, with respect to Guiana and Trinidad, he believed
 931
 Lord John Russell  said, he entirely agreed with the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), that whenever these subjects were brought before the House, an effort should be made to keep the charge against the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies, and the question of the policy of the Colonial Government, entirely distinct. He for one should wish that the charge made against the noble Lord of breach of faith should be at once entered into, and that every explanation which could be given upon it should be heard; and the result he had no doubt would be—as had been anticipated by the hon. Member for the University of Oxford—a large majority in favour of the noble Lord. Of that he could have no doubt: but there was another question remaining of a most important kind, which the House should not overlook—a question which was not merely confined to the character, or to the folly, or to the immediate interest of the Administration. It was the question of the government of that important Colony. For his part, he believed if the islands of New Zealand were properly colonized and cultivated, and rightly governed, they were destined to have great weight in the future condition of that part of the world. He believed that the 18,000 or 20,000 Englishmen who inhabited that Colony were destined to exercise a powerful influence in the future government of the greater part of that hemisphere. He thought, therefore, that they ought as much as possible to separate the consideration of that great question from all mere personal matters. For his part, he could not at present form an opinion as to whether the New Zealand Company were right in making any charge against the noble Lord, or whether the noble Lord were right in the course which he had taken in opposing their views; but of this he felt quite convinced, that the tone adopted by the noble Lord in writing to the Company, and the tone used by the Company in their replies, were of far too angry a character to be taken in negotiations between the Government of the country and a public Company. If the differences between the noble Lord and the New Zealand Company were to be
 902
 Mr. Cochrane  begged to ask the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury, whether the English Government had made any representation,
 903 entente cordiale
 Mr. Hawes  said, that his object in rising was to move that provision be made in the Bill for the drawback of the amount of duty reduced on such duty-paid sugar as now remained in the Queen's warehouses. This was not a question which involved fraud or collusion, which other cases of drawback might do. The case was not one of great public interest, but that of private parties, who would be affected in consequence of the measure now before the House having been brought forward under peculiar circumstances. It was the case of individuals residing in London, Liverpool, and other places, who might suffer in consequence of Her Majesty's Government having proposed an alteration in the Sugar Duties. He trusted that the House would agree to his proposition, as the alteration was made most unexpectedly, and at an unusually early period of the year. He asked for a remission of duty paid on all sugar yet in a bonded warehouse. In nearly all cases where goods were in a bonded warehouse the duty had not been paid; but according to the usage of the sugar trade it was customary to keep sugar in these warehouses after the duty was paid, and the Crown, or the officers of the Crown, had the complete control over the goods. If the amount in question was small, the parties whom he represented would not urge the House of Commons in this matter, or wish to obstruct a measure of this kind, as it affected their private views. He felt that he should be justified in stating this, when he had informed the House of the amount in question. The parties whom he represented were six of the principal wholesale sugar dealers in London; and they stated in the petition which he had presented, the quantity of sugar they had locked up in the Queen's warehouses, the duty on which had been paid, and on which they now prayed a drawback. It appeared that the house of Conway,
 908 l. "To leave out from the word 'That' to the end of the Question, in order to add the words 'provision be made in the Bill for the Drawback of the amount of the Duty reduced on such Duty-paid Sugar as now remains in the Queen's warehouse, instead thereof.'"
 Mr. Hawes  was willing to leave the matter in the hands of the Government, and he did so with entire and perfect confidence. He accepted the arrangement proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, and would, with the permission of the House, withdraw his Motion. He distinctly recognised the principle which the right hon. Gentleman laid down, and unless any other case came within the same special distinction, and unless fraud were quite impossible, he would join the right hon. Baronet in resisting any demand of the kind.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that he thought Her Majesty's Government had not sufficiently inquired into the difficulties which would attend the establishment of the principle of classification. The right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) stated the other night the grounds on which he adhered to the principle of classification. In referring to that statement, he was perfectly certain that if he addressed an impartial audience they would record a verdict in his favour, in seeking to expunge from the Bill the words "establishing the system of classification." He would ask the House to consider all the difficulties which would attend the practical operation of these words in the Bill, and he would take the sense of the House upon them. The right hon. Gentleman stated, that he had made extensive inquiries upon the subject. He stated that there had been a meeting of merchants, brokers, and others connected with the trade, to take the matter into consideration. But he did not tell them that they were unanimous, or that the great majority of them had decided in favour of classification. They were far from being unanimous. It was but by a small majority that the parties alluded to had come to a decision on this great question, and had decided in favour of what he was sure would involve the sugar trade in great confusion and difficulty. It was not, therefore, a clear and unmistakeable matter. It was a question on which the most skilful, intelligent, and the most experienced of men, might and would differ. He would again ask the right hon. Gentleman, and press for an answer, how it was that he was to establish the uniformity of which he was so sanguine. The right hon. Gentleman had stated that samples of sugar might be sent by railroad from London, with facility to the various ports into which sugar was introduced; and that the possession of these samples by the various officers at the different ports would enable them to act uniformly one with the other. But would that apply to Cork, or to any other place to reach which it was necessary that the sea should be crossed? But even if it did so apply, was that the mode in which they intended to test the quality of sugars?—a matter in which, it was admitted by the Chancellor of the Exchequer himself, that public
 925 ad valorem
 Mr. Hawes  said, that he wished for an explanation of this clause. It was exceedingly important that such explanation should be given, as the clause seemed to him to be in direct contradiction to the Warehousing Act. If they were about to repeal the Warehousing Act, he was sure they would all agree with him that such a step should not be taken by the Government without furnishing the strongest reasons to the House for adopting it. He referred to the Warehousing Act, 3rd and 4th Will. IV., c. 57, Clause 17, and said he was sure the House was not aware that the Government was about to deal with the most important clause of that Act. He wished for explanation, and if one satisfactory were not given, he should move that the clause be expunged.
 Mr. Hawes  observed, the right hon. Gentleman defended the clause on the ground of the duty being lowered. There were many articles on which a low duty was charged, that were reweighed.
 Mr. Speaker  said, that as the Notice stood on the Paper, the Motion of the hon. Member was intended to be made on the Question that the Speaker leave the Chair; but the hon. Member for Lambeth had a prior Notice on the Paper, and when that was disposed of, it would not be competent for the hon. Member to propose a second Amendment on the same Question. He apprehended also that the Motion could not be brought forward in the Committee on the Bill without a previous
 905
 Colonel Sibthorp  still entertained his objection to the whole clause, and was resolved to resist it. If he could not expunge it altogether in this stage, he would at least amend it, in order that it might not be so gross an attack upon private property. He entered his solemn protest against it, and hoped, if not here, that in another place, where landed property was more regarded, the clause would be rejected.
 Colonel Sibthorp  called attention to the situation of the poor man whose private property was invaded, or a nuisance erected in its neighbourhood, and who had no remedy beyond an action at law, the costs of which he could not afford. He considered the clause so oppressive, that if he found nobody to support him he would divide against it at the proper stage. He had not been sent there to protect the rights of gentlemen only; and if the notion of other Members was that all they had to do was to take care of the rich, who could take care of themselves, it was high time the House underwent a new reform.
 Mr. Cardwell  said, it was quite impossible in reductions of taxation to reimburse everybody that unfortunately suffered. That being the case, it would be unjust to all the others if one were to be made the exception. That general rule had been admitted by the right hon. Gentleman opposite. The parties who had kept their sugar in bonded warehouses had had, under all the circumstances, a longer notice than was usually given when a reduction of duty was contemplated. The House had been told, in corroboration of that fact, that several retail stocks had been kept low; and the arrangement of last year, which was termed by some hon. Members a disturbance of the trade, was in itself an intimation of subsequent settlement. That being the case, the question arose whether or no the subject before the House was one which could fairly claim exception from the general rule. If, however, the principle was admitted as regarded the Motion under discussion, in what consisted the difference between the wholesale grocer who kept his stock in bond, and the retail grocer who took his stock out of the Queen's stores? In principle there was no difference whatever. If the first exception was admitted, the second should be admitted also: and so the House would go on, from shade to shade in the matter, until it became impossible to draw a line of distinction between the exception and the rule, or say when one should end and the other begin. That would give rise to the greatest uncertainty in practice; and the multiplication of precedents established by it would lead to far graver acts than was anticipated. The case of the hon. Member who last spoke might be
 915
 Mr. Shaw , in reply, thanked the House for the attention which, at that late hour, they had given to the subject, and expressed his obligation to the Government for having granted the Committee. He would not then, as the Committee was conceded, detain them longer by replying to some of the objections, to which he thought he could have given an easy answer—he would only express his entire concurrence in the sentiment of his right hon. Friend (Sir Robert Peel), that the value of the Committee would depend upon its being constituted with the most perfect impartiality—and in that spirit he would, on Monday, propose to nominate it.
 Mr. Shaw  rose to move, according to his Notice, for a Select Committee to inquire into the merits of the Atmospheric System of Railway. He could have wished, at an earlier hour, to have dwelt upon the nature of the system, the progress it had made, and the great acquisition which he believed the discovery would prove in the science of railway locomotion; but at that period of the night, he would not trespass longer on the House than very briefly to state the grounds and refer to the Parliamentary documents upon which he hoped to gain the assent of the House to the inquiry which he sought. In the petition which he had presented to the House, and upon which he then moved, the patentees complained that they were prejudiced by the Report of the Railway Department of the Board of Trade on the Kentish and South-Eastern Railway; but he (Mr. Shaw) would greatly prefer to rest the case upon the public advantage to be derived from a preliminary inquiry being made upon a point of such vital importance, before the House became engaged in the unusually large amount of railway business they would have to discharge during the present Session. He should have liked to go through the various Reports of the Board of Trade relating to the subject; but as he fully appreciated the time of the House at that advanced hour, he should content himself by quoting from one Report, which, he thought, would sufficiently establish his case for a Committee—it was the Report upon the Newcastle and Berwick Railways. In that Report, the Board admitted that the result of the atmospheric system was likely to be "an acceleration of speed in
 939 940
 Mr. G. W. Hope  wished to explain that he did not observe the Notice of the hon. Member for Liskeard on the Book until late in the day, and he had afterwards no opportunity of stating his intentions to any of the hon. Gentlemen who had taken a part in the recent debate until coming down to the House, when he mentioned the matter to the hon. Member for Guildford. Having perceived that the Motions of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Dungarvon (Mr. Sheil), and of the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Ward), which had been fixed for Tuesday, were postponed until after Easter, he had come to the conclusion, that he could more readily bring the subject forward on that evening than on any other day before the recess, and he trusted that he would be enabled to do so when the time arrived.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said he wished to take the same course which had been taken
 893
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, the charge which he understood to have been made was this—that the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies had entered into what was stated to be an agreement with the New Zealand Company, and having done so, he undertook to give certain instructions to the Governor of New Zealand—that he gave one set of instructions as those which he had proposed to the New Zealand Company, and another set of instructions to the Governor, inconsistent with those which had been proposed to the Company; and thereby the Governor and Agent in the Colony was not in a position, or rather his instructions were not such, as to enable him to carry out the arrangements which the noble Lord had made with the Company.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, that it would be in the recollection of the House that certain charges had been made against his noble Friend at the head of the Colonial Office. The charge related to the alleged conduct of his noble Friend to the New Zealand Company, and the charge was, that he had been guilty of a gross want of faith, and of deception. The Government had not had as yet any opportunity of vindicating the noble Lord; for on a previous occasion, when it was brought under their notice, it was done in such a manner, that, though the Government were indirectly accused, they could not enter into their defence. He perceived that the hon. Member for Liskeard had given notice of a Motion for Tuesday, which had reference to the affairs of that Colony; but that notice, as was the case with the last which had been brought before the House on the subject of New Zealand, would give no opportunity for the vindication of the conduct and character of the noble Lord. He submitted to the House that such a course was not fair. The noble Lord had been distinctly charged in that House with conduct not becoming a Public Officer or a gentleman; and he (Mr. Hope) found that a petition was in course of circulation, and solicitations were being trade to persons of high standing in the City to sign it, imputing to the noble Lord misconduct as regarded the New Zealand Company. He thought the House would agree with him that it was not fair that a charge should have been made, and not have been brought forward and substantiated. And as he (Mr. Hope) perceived it was not the intention of the New Zealand Company formally to substantiate that charge against the noble Lord before the Easter recess, he thought the House would further agree with him that it was due to the noble Lord's character, and to that fair play which every Englishman was entitled to, that such charge should be brought forward and gone into. He should, therefore, on Tuesday next, give a formal notice for the production of Papers for the purpose of raising the question, and enabling the New Zealand Company to substantiate
 892
 Mr. Aglionby  was prepared to repeat and substantiate the charge which had been made against the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies either then, on Tuesday night, or at any other time; and he was therefore quite in the hands of the hon. Member the Under Secretary for the Colonies. He was willing, if the hon. Member wished, now to repeat the charge, and give his opinion of the conduct of the noble Lord, in order that the hon. Gentleman might be perfectly aware of what he had to meet on Tuesday.
 Mr. Aglionby  contended, that trial by jury, though on the whole a great good, was not in all cases, an unexceptionable tribunal. Juries were formerly mad against railways, whereas now they were mad in favour of railways. He did not mean to charge them with corruption, but it was certain that in most cases juries did not administer justice. On the other hand, a well-informed arbitrator was usually as impartial as he was competent; in Cumberland he could point out many gentlemen who would be able to give a fair and discreet decision in a dispute of the kind.
 Mr. Aglionby  proposed an Amendment, in order more effectually to give parties an appeal from the Sheriff to the Court above on points of law. A case had arisen whether directors on railways were competent witnesses; collectively it had been decided they were admissible, under Lord Denman's Act, inasmuch as they had no separate interest; but this was a point upon which high and legal authorities were at variance. He proposed a clause enabling either party to apply to the Court above in order to set right an error in the Court below.
 Mr. Aglionby  hoped that the noble Lord would pause until he had had time to make inquiries as to the expenses of such appeals; he did think that a Motion of the kind in the Court above would cost more than was within the means of a moderate man; it might not cost 2 l., l.
 Mr. Aglionby  expressed his gratification at what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet
 897 G. W. Hope: Mangles: dernier ressort, 898 899
 Mr. Aglionby  said, he would act upon the suggestion thrown out by the right hon. Baronet, and confine himself strictly to a statement of the facts. He was about to observe, that during all his interviews with Captain Fitzroy, that gallant Officer had another letter in his pocket from the Colonial Office, besides the letter of the 12th of May, though he and the Company
 900
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that considerable anxiety was felt in the country among retail dealers on the subject. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said that if they extended their indulgence to sugar in the Queen's warehouse, why not also extend it to sugar out of the Queen's warehouse? That might be received as an answer to the arguments of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere); but his point was, that
 914
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had no wish to let technical objections stand in the way of the Motion; but it was a matter of considerable importance that they did not establish a precedent which would give rise to serious evils. The right hon. Member for Portsmouth observed that he thought in Committee on this Bill they might make arrangements as to the levying the duty, and also as to the drawback. It should be remembered that the Sugar Bill was an annual Bill, and that it enacted specific duties for a limited period. They had already adopted in the Committee of Ways and Means the Resolution as to the amount of duty, and they had made an estimate of the sum that would be received. Would not a clause introduced in the Committee on the Bill, involving the question of drawback, imply the making a payment out of the amount of duty to be received under the Bill. If this were the case it was clear that it could not be introduced in Committee on the Bill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  agreed with the hon. Gentleman that this ought not to be considered as a party question. The settlement of these questions involved considerable difficulty, seriously affecting, as they did, the interests of individuals; and if he felt bound to adhere on this occasion to what he considered the best for the public interest, he could assure the hon. Member that it was not for want of considering the situation of those who might be sufferers by the change of the law. But he was impressed with the feeling that, if he attempted to relieve them,
 909 910 911
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  expressed his wish to give every facility to afford the hon. Member the opportunity to take the sense of the House on the question.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  considered that there was not such a departure from the Warehousing Act as to prevent the House from adopting the clause. When the duty was high, an opportunity was given for reweighing the article. By omitting to do that for the future, a saving of 8,000 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was the hon. Gentleman's good fortune, although it was, perhaps, his misfortune, that the hon. Gentleman did not hear what had fallen from him on this point on a former and very recent occasion. The whole matter was then fully stated on both sides. He had never pretended to deny that in the institution of a system of classification, there was, and must necessarily be, great difficulty. Since it had been announced that it was the determination of the Government to adhere to the distinctive duties, the number of persons who concurred in the possibility and propriety of such an arrangement, increased from day to day. They had
 926
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he had one objection to it, which was, that the hon. Gentleman had proposed, to a Bill which would expire in 1846, an Amendment which was not to come into operation until 1847. He thought it advisable not to stop the progress of the Bill by pressing the Amendment, and trusted the hon. Gentleman would suffer it to drop.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he would announce on Monday the course which the Government proposed to pursue. The case of the refiners was in many respects essentially different from that of the purchasers of duty-paid sugar in the Queen's warehouse, and he could assure the hon. Gentleman that there had been a large exportation, with great advantage to the refiners.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that after the decision of the House, he doubted whether the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets would act prudently in pressing the Motion for compensation to sugar refiners. It would be difficult to ascertain the particulars with respect to sugars which had been taken out, and were in process of manufacture; and the principle which applied to sugars in the Queen's warehouse did not apply to the former class.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was understood to intimate, in postponing the Order of the Day for the House to go into a Committee, that the Customs' Acts Bill would be taken the first thing on Monday.
 Mr. Labouchere  fully concurred with the general rule which the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had laid down, that in ordinary circumstances drawbacks ought not to be granted. But the question which the House had to take into its consideration was this—whetherornot there existed any peculiar circumstances in this case which would afford a fair ground for departing from the general rule; and, for his part, he must say that, having looked into the question with every disposition to take the line which the right hon. Gentleman had recommended, and fully impressed with the danger of departing from a rule which, in the main, was sound and proper, he still had come to the conclusion that the present was a case in which he did not think the House would act justly unless they made some reasonable arrangement which would mitigate the hardships of which the petitioners complained. What were the peculiarities of this case? He believed that the Government had pursued a course with regard to the dealers in sugar which was unprecedented in the commercial legislation of this country. Last year they had passed an Act altering the Sugar Duties, and enacting that the new duties should continue till the 5th of July, "and no longer;" and they now disturbed the arrangements on which dealers had a right to rely, and, three months before the expiration of the Act, they had passed another law subjecting the Sugar Duties to another alteration.
 912 l. 913
 Mr. Warburton  said, he should not allow the Motion to pass without dividing the House upon it. If mechanical improvements had taken place in the construction
 941
 Mr. Warburton  said, that after the speech which had been made by the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government, he would not divide the House upon the question.
 Mr. Bright : I will move that the House do go into Committee now, if the right hon. Baronet chooses.
 Mr. Bright  wished to ask whether there was any objection to allow the cotton duty to be repealed at once, and to take it out of the list where it now stood? It was placed unfairly with the "w's," although it began with a "c." There would be no difficulty in coming to a decision upon it, as they were all agreed about the remission of the duty; and, considering that there was at this moment an enormous amount of cotton bound up in consequence of the non-repeal of the duty, and that the quantity in the market was limited, and no regularity in the trade, he hoped the duty would be at once taken off. He had letters from Lancashire, making serious complaints on the subject. It seemed to him to be one of those simple things which an omnipotent Government could do in five minutes. It would
 938
 Mr. Bright  had had some conversation with a number of wholesale grocers who had attended at the first sale of Manilla sugar. From the circumstances which then took place, it appeared that the trade was quite of opinion that great difficulties would arise from the new classification proposed by the Government. Heretofore it had been the custom of merchants to sell sugar, duty-paid; but in this particular case the merchant gave orders to the broker that the sugar should be sold in bond; and when it was put up for sale there were no purchasers who offered to buy, and the reason they assigned was, that they would not take it upon themselves to buy sugar in bond, because it was impossible for them to tell what might be the amount of duty to which they would be liable under the new classification to which the Government had expressed itself resolved to adhere. Those wholesale grocers to whom he referred, were persons competent to form an opinion on this matter; and the opinion expressed by them was, that the classification would be a source of endless difficulty to the trade. He thought it was
 927
 Mr. Bright  observed, that the West India proprietors must not look upon this Bill as anything like a final settlement of
 930
 Mr. Humphery  said, there had been a time when, although duties had been paid and were in the King's coffers, they were stopped there, and new duties levied. That had been the case with tea. He was content with the arrangement proposed, if an equitable remuneration was given for losses sustained.
 Mr. Humphery  was sorry to hear that for the saving of a few thousands a-year, it was proposed to impose a tax upon individuals. It was not to be supposed that the merchant would pay for the quantity as imported into the warehouse. He would have it reweighed again, whether they charged duty or not, and as to the public
 928
 Mr. Parker  said, that he was disposed to vote in favour of this Committee. He thought that the House ought not to be deprived of any experience that existed on this subject, which was one of importance to the public at large. He thought that the public had a right to expect a fair examination into the principle of the atmospheric railway.
 Mr. Ricardo  supported the appointment of the Committee. The question was a national one, for it involved the expenditure of a large amount of capital. Before two years had passed, either the atmospheric or the locomotive principle would be established; and whichever was successful, all the capital expended in the opposite direction would be completely wasted. Let, then, a Committee be appointed, in order to enable the House to judge which principle they would adopt.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know what the fight was all about.
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer what objection he had to allow the Colonies the privilege of refining and sending their sugar into this country at the same rate of duty as clayed sugars were chargeable with? There was a protective duty of 2 s. d. s. d.
 Mr. Hume  asked, why should the importer suffer any loss at all. The Government ought to receive a duty on all that came into consumption, and no more. The Government ought not to get more than they were entitled to.
 Mr. Hume  suggested that the subject should be recommitted to the Committee of Ways and Means. He trusted that, in consequence of merely a technical objection, they would not be prevented from bringing the subject forward.
 Mr. Hume  hoped the House would not support the Chancellor of the Exchequer in resisting the Motion of his hon. Friend
 918
 Mr. Hume  had intended to have brought the subject forward when the House was in Committee of Ways and Means; but he had been requested by the right hon. Gentleman not to do so at that stage, as it was most desirable to pass the Resolutions without delay. The right hon. Gentleman had promised that facilities should be afforded for bringing it forward on a future day. It would be most unfair to the parties to prevent their case being heard, as it was evident that the impediment had been occasioned by a misunderstanding.
 Mr. Hume  said, his only wish was to have some definite time fixed on for bringing the matter forward.
 Mr. Hume  said, it appeared to him that they ought to separate distinctly the personal charge against Lord Stanley from the general charge against the Colonial Department. As it was clearly most desirable that the first of these matters should be disposed of with as little delay as possible, he would beg to suggest to the right hon. Baronet the propriety of taking one of the Government days fr bringing it forward, and of having it fixed for Monday next.
 Mr. Hume  thought the hon. Member should state the distinctive charge made against the noble Lord, and if the Papers which the hon. Gentleman was about to present had any reference to the charge, the House should be in possession of them before the matter was discussed.
 Colonel Rolleston  pointed out the particular instances in which railway companies had unduly invaded private property and ornamented grounds. Gentlemen's seats, mansions, and parks were exposed to most severe injury, and he hoped that nothing that could be done to protect them would be omitted in the Bill.
 Mr P. M. Stewart  remarked that difficulties existed in the way of introducing labourers into our Colonies. Some respectable mercantile houses in the city had obtained licenses from Singapore and Penang; but it was found that instructions had been contemporaneously issued from the Colonial Office to the effect that these licenses should not be allowed to be acted upon. Now, as numbers of willing labourers existed at Singapore and Penang, it was of great importance to know how they could be made available. The great point for the West India proprietors was to obtain labour, and that end accomplished they might do what they liked with the protective duties.
 Mr. Borthwick  contended that the protection to the West Indies, of which hon. Gentlemen opposite complained so much, was rendered necessary by the legislation of that House. He contended that it was not to the operations of the Government, but to those of the League, that they owed the necessity of taxing the people, in order to maintain the rights of West Indian proprietors.
 Mr. Borthwick : My hon. Friend the Member for Knaresborough rose to answer the question of the hon. Member for Montrose, and did so in a manner which the hon. Member did not expect. My hon. Friend answered the question when he spoke of another dissolution. In 1842, when the right hon. Baronet brought forward his Corn Bill, so humble an individual as myself was the only person who opposed him. By whom was I opposed? Why, by the very men who now cry out for agricultural protection—by those who now come forward and tell the country and farmers to look to them for protection. Now, in the present state of things, I shall not certainly attempt to purchase popularity by voting against the Government. We are a day behind the fair. What is the proposal of my hon. Friend
 935
 Mr. Mangles  ["Order"]. He did not see how he could be out of order in prolonging
 894
 Mr. Mangles  said, that having been the party who had, he believed, in the first instance, and in the strongest terms, given his opinion as to the conduct of the noble Lord, he might be allowed to say, in answer to what had fallen in the shape of accusation and taunt from the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies, that he should be quite ready to substantiate any charge which he had brought against the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies. But at the same time, he must say, that he should not allow the hon. Gentleman to dictate to him at what time he might choose to do so.
 Mr. M. Gibson  was most anxious that the preamble should set forth, as fully as possible, the whole policy of the measure. The right hon. Gentleman (Sir R. Peel) had told the House, that in addition to imposing certain duties on sugar, it was intended by the Bill to give protection to the West India planters, and to discourage the Slave Trade. He (Mr. Gibson) thought those objects should be distinctly stated in the preamble.
 Mr. Gill  said, the expense of a railway formed on the atmospheric principle was less than that of a locomotive line. In many parts of the Continent in which the atmospheric principle had been established, a locomotive line could not be introduced; and even in many parts of England, though not so mountainous, it would be beneficial to introduce the atmospheric in preference to the locomotive principle.
 Mr. Thornely  objected to any delay in considering the repeal of the cotton duties. There was an enormous quantity of cotton in bond; and he understood that the Resolution for the abolition of the import duties would not come on till Wednesday.
 Mr. Ferrand : I will tell the hon. Member for Montrose what it is all about. A few nights ago the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary stated that the agricultural labourers were in a state of poverty and distress, which could no longer be neglected. My hon. Friend the Member for Somersetshire means to call the attention
 934 Laughter from the Opposition.
 Mr. F. Baring  said, that the principle now sought to be maintained so stringently had been violated by the right hon. Gentleman opposite in 1842, in respect to the wine trade. If no drawback were to be allowed in any case, then, although it might be a hardship upon individuals, it would be equal upon all parties; but what the right hon. Gentleman did on that occasion with respect to wine, was a sufficient answer to the arguments of the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the speech of the hon. Secretary for the Treasury. The Chancellor of the Exchequer and the hon. Gentleman said, as they could not give relief to every body, they would give it to no one; but the right hon. Gentleman acted differently in 1842, for he granted a drawback on wine bottled by the great merchants, though he refused to give it to the small dealers. And upon that occasion the right hon. Gentleman justified the course he took by urging that if he had inflicted a hardship upon one party, that was no reason why he should inflict it on another, and declining to be bound by any general rule in particular cases. But, if a drawback was to be given to wine, why should it be refused to sugar? The next question to be considered was, whether the case was a special case or not? That it was a special case he contended; for there was no other which had such an Act of Parliament to govern it as sugar. The hon. Gentleman had asserted that the parties in the trade had received sufficient notice; but his reply to that assertion was, the Act which imposed the duties remained in force until the 5th of July. But it had been said that a memorial from the trade had been addressed to the Government, praying that the question might be dealt with as soon as possible. But were all other parties to be held as bound by that memorial—those parties who had not petitioned on the subject? What was the fact with respect to that memorial? In the course of years it so happened that the trade was in a state of great uncertainty, and they were anxious that the Government
 916
 Mr. F. Baring  could not help feeling strongly the hardship of the case. As he understood his hon. Friend the Member for Rochester, they could not now give the drawback, because it involved a charge on the public. He did not think that this could be a rule, as he could not conceive how a drawback could be regarded as a tax on the country.
 Mr. F. Baring  observed, that this was a very important question, and it was most desirable that it should be settled at once. He thought that the best course would be for his hon. Friend to make his Motion on the Question that the Bill be re-committed. He was not quite sure that because the Resolutions had been agreed to in the Committee of Ways and Means, as to the reduction on the duties, that they would not introduce arrangements to carry out the object of the Resolutions,
 906
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that hon. Members were too fond of putting forward cases of individual hardship; but, if the right hon. Gentleman opposite had been still Chancellor of the Exchequer, he believed that he would have acted in the same manner as his right hon. Friend, not alone by resisting the Motion, but by using the same arguments against it. The case of the wine trade, as adduced by the right hon. Gentleman as one in point, was a fact totally different from the case of sugar. In consequence of a treaty being on foot with Portugal, there had been a complete stagnation in the trade in wine, and it became necessary to take out a large portion of the stock in bond for bottling for immediate use. To effect that, the trade was put under an excise survey, and every person in the country holding a ten-guinea license was allowed to bottle wine, receiving at the same time a debenture,
 917
 Sir G. Clerk  felt obliged to object to the Motion of his right hon. Friend. The noble Lord had stated that he had been last year a Member of a Committee to
 943
 Sir H. Douglas  said, it was his intention to vote for the Motion of the hon. Member for Lambeth, because it was one deeply interesting to his constituents. He had presented a memorial signed by one hundred firms in the sugar trade, and, though much had been made of another memorial on the same subject, he was in a position to say that not a single wholesale grocer or sugar refiner in Liverpool had signed it. All these gentlemen were under the impression that the Act of last year would be suffered to expire, even in case there had been an alteration in the Sugar Duties; and, therefore, they were taken quite unawares by the proposal of the Government. The result of his own intimate and thorough conviction was, that the case of the memoralists as brought before the House by the hon. Member for Lambeth, was founded on equity, and should therefore have his support. He regretted the absence from illness of his noble Colleague, as he had no doubt that his voice and his vote would be also given for the Motion.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, he would wish to test the propositions of the hon. Member who had just sat down by a vote of that House; and if the hon. Gentleman, instead of bringing forward a Motion for the production of Papers on which there would be no division, would move a substantive Resolution respecting the conduct of the noble Lord, or for the production of some Papers to which the New Zealand Company were not entitled, they would then have an opportunity of ascertaining how far the hon. Gentleman's proposition was correct. He thought they should have some proposition submitted to them on this subject, on which no discussion had as yet taken place; and an opportunity for discussion would not be afforded to them, either by the Motion of the hon. Member for Liskeard, or that of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of the Colonies. If they had such a Motion brought before them, they could then have an opportunity of testing the truth of the allegation of the hon. Member who had last addressed them, as to whether the conduct of the Colonial Government was reprobated by every individual in the
 895
 Sir R. Inglis  stated, that if the hon. Member for Liskeard (Mr. C. Buller) were present he would consent to postpone his Motion, fixed for Tuesday next, until such time as the House was put in possession of the documents. It was most desirable that hon. Members should have an opportunity of inspecting the documents that were intended to be laid upon the Table before going into any fresh discussion on the question.
 Sir Robert Peel  observed, that the hon. Gentleman ought, perhaps, merely to state his facts for the present, without reasoning upon them at the same time.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he trusted the Government would not be pressed to adopt such a course, at a time when there was so great a necessity for bringing on the
 901
 Sir Robert Peel  said, after the discussion which had taken place on Tuesday last, it was natural that there should be, on the part of his noble Friend the Secretary for the Colonies, and of his Colleagues, an earnest desire that the sense of the House should be taken in some form or other on the policy pursued by the Colonial Office with regard to the New Zealand Company; and if any doubts were entertained by the hon. Gentleman on the subject before that evening, he thought they mast be effectually removed by the expressions which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Mangles). He believed that hon. Gentleman was a Member of the New Zealand Company, and upon the authority of the knowledge which he thus acquired he had declared it as his opinion that the Colonial Office, over which his noble Friend presided, was viewed by the commercial interests of the country as being at best but a nuisance. He thought the hon. Gentleman, after making such a
 896
 Sir R. Peel  considered that it was of the utmost importance in proceedings on Bills, and above all on Money Bills, to adhere as strictly as possible to the rules of the House. There were undoubtedly circumstances in this case which might offer some ground for departing from the rule; but the evil would be, if they once admitted an irregularity, that when the circumstance which gave rise to it was forgotten, it would be established as a precedent. He could, however, assure the hon. Member that the Government would not throw any impediment in his way in bringing forward the Motion. Suppose that when the Bill had passed through Committee and the House resumed, the Motion was made  pro formâ,
 Sir Robert Peel  was not at all surprised at the interest which his hon. Friend had shown on all matters connected with the destiny of Greece. He believed his hon. Friend had the advantages arising from a personal knowledge of that country in discussing any questions connected with it, and he showed a praiseworthy desire that Greece should furnish an example to the world of a popular Government coexistent with liberal institutions. He believed his hon. Friend had been influenced throughout by the sincerest desire to promote the interests of that country. As to Sir Edmund Lyons, he might say that in some recent discussions in that House, observations had been made about the incapacity of naval officers in conducting civil affairs; but that gallant gentleman was an example that affairs of great importance connected with a great country might with safety be committed to the hands of a naval officer. The opinion of Government, therefore, with respect to Sir Edmund Lyons remained entirely unchanged. With regard to M. Piscatory, the hon. Gentleman would, he hoped, excuse him if he declined making any public reference, as a Minister of Her Majesty's Government, to the conduct of the Representative of another Power. In respect to General Church, he should own that he entirely concurred with the hon. Gentleman in his expression of deep regret at the removal of a man from his office under the King, in a country to the
 904
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, I am sure the House will believe that it was the anxious wish of Her Majesty's Government to effect the necessary commercial changes with as little inconvenience and as little prejudice to the interests of individuals as possible. In effecting such changes all the feelings of the Government naturally incline towards making concessions to those interested in commercial pursuits, if such concessions can be made with a due regard to the public interests. I have received several deputations for the purpose of
 919 Humphery: 920 921 bonâ fide
 Sir R. Peel  thought that the best arrangement that could be adopted, and that which was most in conformity with
 907
 Sir R. Peel : We have never been able to get into Committee.
 Sir R. Peel  would not ask for any Votes but those which were necessary for the Public Service. Some of the Votes were necessary for the Public Service to be passed—as the Votes for the Half-pay. It would be very inconvenient for the Public Service if these Votes were not passed. He only wanted such Votes for the men as would enable him to pass the Mutiny Bill. He thought some arrangement could be made to take these Votes, and have the discussion afterwards. With respect to the Motion of which his hon. Friend (Mr. Miles) had given notice, he begged to say, that he did not mean to put the same construction on it as the hon. Member (Mr. Borthwick) who sat behind him. The Motion might be considered as conveying a truism in which he could concur, and in which any persons might concur who thought that "due regard should be paid to the necessities of the agricultural interest." The construction to be put on a Vote of that kind depended on the position of public affairs. It would be impossible for the House to affirm that Resolution without implying an opinion that the measures of Her Majesty's Government ought not to be carried into effect. Although the Motion might be abstractedly true, the inference to be drawn from acceding to it would be,
 937
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that any delays which might occur were not his fault. He had no objection to go on with the Customs' Duties Bill that night. He intended to take the articles of Customs in the order in which they stood, and to make as much expedition as possible.
 Sir R. Peel  said, the hon. Gentleman had had full opportunity of urging that point in the discussion on the Motion of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets; it was a little too late to bring it forward now.
 Sir R. Peel : The House would surely not go into Committee at that hour. He would much rather take the article in the order in which it was placed. It was no mistake of his that it was put among the "w's."
 Sir R. Peel  said, he thought, if there were doubts upon this subject, considering the particular position of the House with regard to railways, those doubts ought to be solved in favour of the appointment of a Committee. The weight which the Committee would carry with it would depend very much upon its constitution being without the least suspicion of its being formed with the view of favouring any particular system. He confessed, that upon the whole, considering the number of Railway Bills before the House, considering also the possibility that the appointment of one Committee might save some time in others, he was inclined to try the experiment; but, at the same time, he could not anticipate any very good effect from it. He did not, for instance, believe, that if the right hon. Gentleman obtained the Committee, it would determine any speculative point, for example, whether the Archimedean screw or the paddle-wheel was the best. Those points could only be determined after a vast number of experiments by practical men had been brought before the public, which would form its opinion, not upon the Report of any Select Committee, but upon the test of practical operations. If the Committee were appointed, he had also some doubts whether the object in view would be effected, although, let it be understood, that his impressions were strongly in favour of the atmospheric system; nor did he think the Report would be made in sufficient time to influence the decision of any other Committee; but he did think that a Committee appointed now, and proceeding to the consideration of evidence, might be able to suggest to individual Committees several important points. For instance, they could get exact and useful information concerning the Dalkey line, and upon the application of the system upon the Continent, imperfect as that system must be at present. They might collect a body of evidence which might be valuable in saving time; but the question still would remain, whether the system would succeed commercially. It was possible the Committee might clear up all doubts upon the mechanical part of the question—they might ascertain the exact expense of working; but the commercial success of the system depended upon a thousand considerations which no Committee of the House of Commons could decide upon. But upon the whole he should vote for the Committee, although there might be great
 945
 Sir William Clay  expressed his readiness to yield to the suggestion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, on the understanding that it did not close the case of the refiners. They considered their case one of as great pressure as that which had induced the Government to yield to the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth. The sugar refiners were obliged to take out a large quantity, in no case less than five weeks' whole consumption; for their process of manufacture, and the peculiarities of that process, obliged them to continue constantly supplying their stock. Nor had any large exportation taken place, to enable them to save themselves from loss. The Government had yielded in the former case on the ground of the impossibility of fraud; and he could convince them that, in the case of the sugar refiners, there was no posbility of anything of the kind. The proposition which he wished to make was,
 923
 Sir W. Clay  said, that in the absence of his hon. Friend the Member for Greenock, the task devolved upon him to bring forward a Motion on the subject of compensation to sugar refiners for the sugar now in process of refining. He understood that some difficulty arose as to the form of proceeding, in consequence of the manner in which the Notice had been given. He was anxious to ask the Chair whether it was competent for him, after the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth had been disposed of, to bring the question of a drawback forward, under the shape of an instruction to the Committee, or whether he could bring forward his Motion in the Committee?
 Mr. G. Craig  admitted the difficulty of obtaining a fair trial in many cases where appeal was made to a jury, and referred to the practice in Scotland, which was in conformity with the Amendment.
 Mr. Hutt  reminded the Under Secretary for the Colonies, that the noble Lord the Member for Bath (Lord Duncan) had given notice of an important Motion on the subject of the window-tax for Tuesday evening, and there were also some other Notices fixed for the same evening. Was it intended to bring on the debate about New Zealand on that evening or not?
 Lord Ebrington  rejoiced exceedingly that the right hon. Baronet had consented to the appointment of this Committee.
 Viscount Howick  did not think that his hon. Friend behind him (Mr. Warburton) had exercised his usual acuteness in the objections which he had urged to the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman. He (Viscount Howick) had been a Member of the Select Committee which had inquired into this subject, and he thought that it was an object of interest to the public to know whether this system should be adopted or not. He thought that this Motion ought to be adopted. He thought that the inquiry was called for under circumstances that would in every way justify the House in granting the inquiry. In the present year, a great number of Railway Bills would be before the House. In two or three cases there was a competition between the atmospheric railway and the locomotive system. It was the great advantage of the atmospheric system, that it was able to overcome gradients, to produce a great advantage in reducing the amount of construction. The Board of Trade had admitted that this system was greatly superior in point of speed, in point of safety; but they doubted its success on the ground of its mercantile advantage. Now, that was a question with which he (Viscount
 942 d. d.
 Viscount Howick  was very much inclined to concur in the opinion expressed by the hon. Member for the University of Oxford, as after all that had passed it was absolutely necessary that the policy pursued by the Colonial Office, and by the Government of New Zealand, should be brought under discussion in some manner by which the sense of the House could be taken respecting it. The hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of the Colonies would, of course, use his own discretion on the matter, and if he fixed on Tuesday next for that discussion, he would, for one, not make the slightest objection; but he would repeat that the matter ought to be brought forward in some shape or other, and that hon. Members ought, in the first place, to be afforded time for reading the Papers about to be presented to the House on the subject. They ought to have an opportunity, before coming to any decision upon it, of considering the whole of the policy of the Colonial Office with regard to New Zealand, and be thus enabled to arrive at some decisive result. After the recent discussion, and the proceedings of last year on the question, he considered the House bound to come to some decision, and not to leave the subject in its present most unsatisfactory state.
 Viscount Howick  thought that the hon. Gentleman had not answered one of the questions put to him by his noble Friend; he alluded to the intentions of Government in reference to any guarantee for those loans. He objected to the principle of raising loans, saddling future periods with their payment. Present expenses should be paid from presently provided revenues.
 Viscount Howick  thought if the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies meant to raise the whole question, the Papers ought to be produced before he grounded any Motion upon them; as also the Papers which had been moved for the other night; and the hon. Gentleman had better not, therefore, fix so early a day as Tuesday for bringing the subject before that House.
 Mr. Fitzroy  objected to the insertion of the words proposed. The power had long been vested in the Admiralty, and he did not see any reason for doing away with it now.
 Mr. Miles  said, that in answer to the request made by his hon. Friends, he must observe that he hoped and trusted that the House would give him credit for always being anxious not to interfere with the progress of public business. He had considered it to be his duty not to pursue a course calculated to clog or embarrass the Government; but in that House at present it might be supposed that the agricultural interest never had an existence, and that there was nothing to be regarded but the mercantile and commercial interests. If he assented to the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Hull, he should be throwing away the interests of agriculture, and should be claiming that from the Government which, after the disposal of the Tariff, could not possibly be conceded.
 Mr. Hope  had had no intention of imputing personal motives or unfairness of proceeding to the hon. Gentleman. With reference to the explanation desired, it was his anxious wish to make it as early as possible, and, therefore, if the Window Duty debate was over in good time, he would make that explanation on the next day.
 The Earl of March , in seconding the Motion, said that, after the very able speech of the hon. Member for Somersetshire, and the details he had entered into, he should not trespass long on the attention of the House; but representing as he did a large agricultural constituency, who exacted no pledge from him on the hustings, but who knew his firm and fixed determination to uphold the agricultural interest, he felt he should not be doing his duty by them, if he did not rise on the present occasion to state his entire concurrence with the Motion of his hon. Friend. The circumstance that protection to agricultural produce had, in the last few years, been reduced to so great an extent by Parliament—to an extent, in his opinion, greater than was called for, or than was compatible with the best interests of the country—gave the agriculturists a right to ask, not as a boon, but as an act of justice, that they should be relieved from a great portion of the burdens of local taxation which pressed most heavily on them, and on the inhabitants of the poorest cottage, and which sat but lightly on the wealthy millowner. If he had thought, when the new Corn Law was brought in by the right hon. Baronet, that it was to be followed by the Tariff and Canada Corn Bill, no power on earth would have induced him to vote for it. He conscientiously be-
 984
 Lord J. Russell  observed, that the hon. Member who had just sat down had alluded to an expression that had been made use of by him. The expression that he had made use of at the commencement of the Session was this — that protection was the bane of agriculture. If that expression required any justification—if it required any proof of its justice—that proof had been afforded by that which had passed that night. The hon. Gentleman who had brought forward this Motion stated various instances in which protection had been broken in upon. He went through different measures which had been passed by the present Government—he directed their attention to the Tariff in 1842, and to the Canada Corn Bill in 1843, and yet, having done this, the hon. Member did not venture to propose that any of these laws should be repealed; but there he left these questions, and having stated these evils, he merely proposed that 275,000 l. 1008 1009 s. s.; s. s. s. 1010 1011 "The only beneficial care that a Government can take of commerce is to afford it general protection in time of war, to remove by treaties the restrictions of Foreign Governments in time of peace, and cautiously to abstain from any, however plausible, of its own creating. If every law of regulation, either of our internal or external trade, were repealed,
 1012 1013 1014 1015 1016 Sibthorp; 1017
 Mr. Miles  said, he wished to come to some understanding as to the mode in which the Committee was to proceed. There were several articles in this list the admission of which acted entirely against British agricultural produce. Now, he did not wish to retard the business of Government, by preventing those articles being passed to which no objection was made. What he desired was, that all articles objected to should be left open, to be the subject of discussion on some future day. He objected tto he article grease.
 Mr. Miles  said, he was determined that this list should not pass without discussion; if, therefore, it was not agreed to postpone those items to which he objected, he would immediately move that the House should adjourn.
 Mr. Miles  was not to be told how he was to discharge his duty in that House; but he had observed that the hon. Member for Winchester (Mr. Escott) took every opportunity he could to act directly contrary to the agricultural interest. He had noticed it over and over again, that whenever it was possible to throw out hints and scoffs against the agricultural body that hon. Member was the first to jump up and utter his scorn against them. But he was not to be deterred by the scoffs or sneers of the hon. Gentleman. He would tell that hon. Gentleman (and he ought to have known enough of his character to believe) that whenever he stated his intention to adopt any line of conduct, he was always determined to carry it out. It was his intention not to allow this Tariff to go through without discussion. As to what had been said by the hon. Member for Durham about chalk, he for his part should have no objection to the introduction of chalk free of duty, because it was on some lands a most valuable manure.
 Mr. Miles  hoped the article basket-rods would be omitted.
 The Chairman : That article has already been passed.
 Lord Worsley  said that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down stated that he was a constituent of the hon. Member for Somersetshire, who had brought forward that Motion; and he had added that he regretted that the hon. Gentleman should be deluding the public by introducing such a Motion. But the hon. Gentleman the Member for Winchester had not stated that he represented the opinions of the constituents of the hon. Member for Somersetshire better than the hon. Member himself. Now he believed that the hon. Member for Somersetshire fairly represented on that occasion the opinions of the agricultural body of the district with which
 1021 s. s. 1022
 Captain Harris  did not think the agricultural interests were promoted either by the present Government, or their predecessors. The House had just passed an Income Tax for three years to come, and now or never was therefore the time for
 1039
 Mr. Smythe  said, he had not the smallest intention of intruding himself, especially at that late hour, on the attention of the House, had it not been for that severe, and crushing, and masterly reply, made by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Sussex to the speech of his hon. Friend the Member for Shrewsbury—not the one delivered this evening, but one delivered a fortnight ago. Remembering also that it was the fashion to reproach Gentlemen, even though they might not have an opportunity, with speaking after some delay and some preparation, he thought that he was not unjustified, and did not rise without some call to answer the speech of the
 1030 Cries of 1031
 Lord Ashley  observed, that he was most anxious for the passing of this Bill, not only for the satisfaction of his own feelings, but also because he knew that hopes had been excited out of doors on the subject. He could not conceive that hon. Gentlemen had not made up their minds on the subject; but after what had been said, and as Wednesday next had been given up to the Government, he had no other course to pursue than to postpone it until the first Wednesday after the recess, namely, the 2nd of April. He must, however, add that he was astonished that the Government should, after having scrutinized the principle, hesitate to limit the works now carried on for thirty-six consecutive hours.
 Lord Dalmeny  said, that he rose to put a question to the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department, relative to the Poor Law in Scotland. No doubt it would be in the recollection of the House that, a short time ago, he asked the right hon. Gentleman whether he intended, during the present Session, to bring forward any measure for the alteration and amendment of the Scotch Poor Law. On that occasion, the right hon. Gentleman returned an answer
 958
 Lord G. Somerset  certainly felt the difficulty with which he had to contend in the insertion of this clause. He had, however, no objection to the insertion of some such words as those recommended by the hon. Member for Maidstone (Mr. Dodd), but he should not like to go beyond that. It would be desirable in these cases that special companies should take care of their special interests, and it must not be imagined that this Bill was at all meant to interfere with special rights.
 Lord G. Somerset  saw the objection to the clause; and if the hon. Gentleman would propose some Amendment, with the object of confining its meaning, and not altogether destroy it, he would be happy, if possible, to introduce it on the third reading on Wednesday next. Perhaps it would be better to allow the clause to pass in its present form, and propose an Amendment on the third reading.
 Lord G. Somerset  brought up the Report of the Railway Clauses Consolidation Bill.
 Lord John Russell  suggested that the Chancellor of the Exchequer should consult the officers of the Customs, and see whether they could not make an alteration in the way that had been suggested.
 Mr. Disraeli : When I ineffectually attempted, Sir, to catch your eye, after the conclusion of the speech of the noble Lord the Member for London, I would then have presumed to offer some considerations to the House on the question respecting protection to native industry, which that noble Lord mooted; but such considerations I cannot presume to offer at the present hour of the night; and therefore, I am afraid, I must restrict myself to that principle of discussion laid down by my hon. Friend the Member for Winchester, and confine myself strictly to the Motion before the House. But, watching, as we all must, with great interest, the formation of the character of an individual so eminent as the noble Lord, who has been, as he informed us to-night, thirty years in this House, but appears not
 1023 1024 1025 1026 1027 Hansard 1028
 Mr. Hawes  drew attention to Clause 17, which gave power to the Admiralty to
 954
 Mr. Hawes  objected to Clause 31, and proposed its omission.
 Mr. Escott  considered these discussions as skirmishes between the Anti-Corn Law League and the Protection Society. With respect to both these bodies, he had nothing to say against them so long as they did not endeavour to compel him to join their ranks; for he did not believe the Anti-Corn Law League would be able, in the present state of the country, materially to depress the interests of trade, or that the Protection Societies would have weight enough to depress the interests of agriculture, on which no doubt they did press as a considerable incubus. One great reason for bringing forward the present Motion was the dissatisfaction of the farmers with their Representatives in this House, and he had heard sufficient reasons given for that dissatisfaction. There were two kinds of meetings at which farmers were accustomed to look for information on these matters to their natural leaders—one, those dinners which took place during the recess, in which persons engaged in agriculture congregated together convivially and socially to discuss matters affecting their own interests. He remembered the time when those meetings assumed rather an alarming character, and when it was thought proper to pass a sort of by-law to prevent the discussion of political and public questions. In the course of the last autumn he attended
 1018 1019 G. Bankes: 1020
 Mr. Escott  observed, that if the hon. Member for Somersetshire wished to bring the principle of protection into utter contempt, he was pursuing the very way to do so.
 Mr. Escott  could not imagine why the hon. Member for Somersetshire should attack him as being an enemy to agriculture, because he (Mr. Escott) had stated that such a Motion as that which the hon. Member threatened tended to bring the principle of protection into contempt.
 Mr. C. Buller  said, that there were several Italian woods adapted for furniture, besides other wood. For instance, orange wood, one of the prettiest of these woods.
 Mr. C. Buller  wished to ask a question of the Under Secretary for the Colonies, and to say a few words on a point personal to himself. He wished to ask the hon. Member whether he intended to-morrow to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice, for Papers respecting New Zealand, and then make a statement as to the conduct of Lord Stanley, in connexion with the New Zealand Company? He believed that it was intended that such statement should be of a limited character, and be confined to one specific matter. He thought it very hard that the hon. Gentleman opposite should attempt to represent him as converting this important public question into a mere personal matter, into an opportunity for unfairly aiming a side blow at the Colonial Minister. The Notice stood—to move for "Copies of all Correspondence between the Colonial Office and the Governor of the Falkland Islands, respecting the issue of inconvertible Paper Money;" and to this he had added—"Copies of any Instructions to the Governors of New Zealand, the Falkland Islands, or any other Colony, authorising the contraction of Debts, and the
 963
 Mr. C. Buller  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had stated in his Budget that it was intended to take off the duties on furniture wood; he had therefore thought that they would have been placed in one category. It appeared, however, that the names of several new kinds of furniture woods had been omitted out of this list. Was it intended to place such woods under the general heading of woods unenumerated? He could give the names of several Ceylon woods which were extremely well adapted for this purpose, which had been omitted.
 Mr. Newdegate  said, he admired the ability with which the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Home Department had
 1004 1005 Cheers 1006 l. 1007
 Colonel Sibthorp  opposed the 27th Clause, and proposed as an Amendment, that the distances of five hundred and two hundred yards on each side of the line given by the clause as land which might be taken by the railway companies, for temporary occupation, should be limited, in each case, to one hundred yards.
 Mr. Darby  was surprised at the speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down; for although his personal allusions might please for the moment, they would not secure to him the respect of that
 1029
 Mr. Dodd  suggested that provisions should be made for the full supply of gas and water wherever the natural channel of supply was interrupted by any railway.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that he must beg to decline entering into details until he made his explanation in introducing the general question.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  then
 961
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said,
 1043
 Mr. Kemble  hoped that the noble Lord would attend to the suggestions which had been made by the hon. Gentlemen who had addressed the House upon this subject. He had received communications from several gas and water companies, and he knew that they felt very strongly upon the matter.
 Mr. Labouchere  thought that Her Majesty's Government should encourage the introduction as much as possible of all these new kinds of wood to be used as furniture, and therefore, as far as they could, they should at once specify those woods in the Tariff. He believed that there were several kinds of woods to be met with in our Colonies, and more particularly in New Zealand, extremely well adapted for this purpose. To carry out the purpose of the Government they should allow all these new woods to come in under some general head.
 Mr. Bright  was astonished that the hon. Member for Somersetshire should not object to the introduction of chalk; for it might be called an agricultural produce, since it formed, he believed, a great part of London milk. It was very extraordinary that in order that goods should be admitted into this country, they should have the especial quality of being unfit for human food. The next article on the list was greaves for dogs. He did not think the House ought to be called upon to legislate upon food for dogs, whilst food for millions of human beings was to be protected from all legislation.
 Mr. Bright  wished to put a question to the Chancellor of the Exchequer relative to the Auction Duties. He had received a letter from Scotland on the subject of these duties. The writer of it informed him that it was common in
 959
 Mr. Masterman  observed that as he was the old Gentleman to whom allusion had
 962
 Mr. Plumptre  said, though a supporter of the principles for which the hon. Member for Somerset contended, he should objoct te the course which that hon. Gentleman had taken on the present occasion. He could tell the hon. Gentleman that a great many of his warmest Friends were very much dissatisfied with the Motion which he had brought forward, as they considered he had proposed a measure altogether inadequate to meet the distress under which the agriculturists suffered.
 Mr. Henley  said, it was a very stringent clause; it gave the Admiralty the power of stopping works after they had actually commenced, and he thought it ought to be modified.
 Mr. Hume  would, after the recess, bring forward a Motion respecting the services of that gallant officer.
 Mr. Hume  stated, that when the thanks of the House were voted to the soldiers and officers of the Indian army for their services in China, he had put a question to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government as to whether it were his intention to propose the thanks of the House to Sir H. Pottinger; he was told that the question was premature. Now that there was peace with China, and all matters in dispute settled, he wished to ask whether it were the intention of the right hon. Baro-
 960
 Mr. Bernal Osborne  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether it was the intention of the Government to found any measure on the Report of the Landlord and Tenant Commissioners? Considerable anxiety was felt on the subject in Ireland, and especially in the county with which he was connected.
 Mr. M. Milnes  referred to some communication he had had with Ministers upon this subject, and to the amount of capital invested in the growth of willows, which was in the hands of small proprietors. The cultivation was extremely expensive, and the returns slow, as it took four or five years before a crop could be procured. If foreign
 1042
 Mr. Walker  observed that the Act for allowing the grinding Foreign corn in bond would expire on August the 1st. It was a matter of great importance to many persons to know whether it were the intention of the Government to renew it.
 Mr. Greene  proceeded to read the list.
 Mr. Mitchell  stated that wainscot logs were used only for furniture. English oak was not adapted for articles of that nature, If Government would not consent to take the duty off those logs, he should propose that it be added to the list.
 Mr. Ferrand  begged to confirm the statement made by his hon. Friend (Mr. Milnes). The price of willows had already been reduced to nearly half in the last two or three years.
 Sir G. Clerk  replied, that only those furniture woods were inserted which had hitherto appeared in the Tariff. Any new descriptions of woods used for furniture could hereafter be inserted in the Schedule.
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that the subject of the encroachments which had been made on navigable rivers, harbours, and creeks, had been brought under the consideration of the House by the hon. Member for Montrose, and a Commission had been issued to investigate the subject of the encroachments complained of. If the clause were allowed to pass as it stood, no Railway Bill would be introduced where it was necessary, in executing the proposed line, to cross a river, creek, &c., without the parties interested having first obtained the formal assent of the Admiralty. This he thought was absolutely
 955
 Sir George Clerk  said, it was butter in an unfit state for human food, and mixed with tar.
 Sir G. Cockburn  replied, that the officer in command of the coast guard near the spot had been ordered to watch the case, but hitherto he had made no report.
 Captain Pechell , seeing the gallant Admiral the First Naval Lord of the Admiralty in his place, was desirous of asking him a question respecting the floating breakwater which had been placed off Shoreham, by Captain Taylor. He found, from pilots and fishermen, and other experienced persons, that this admirable contrivance had answered every purpose, and that many vessels had taken shelter under its lee during the late gales. He wished to know from the gallant Admiral whether the Admiralty had received any report as to this great work of art, and whether any one had been authorized by the Admiralty to make such a report?
 Sir James Graham  replied that, notwithstanding the multitudinous nature of the business which had occupied the time of himself and his Colleagues since the commencement of the Session, he would assure the noble Lord that he had not overlooked the subject-matter of the noble Lord's question. With regard to the time, he must claim indulgence until after Easter. On the first day after the recess, he would state definitively the course which the Government intended to take.
 Sir James Graham  observed, that he saw that the second reading of a very important Bill stood for Wednesday next—namely, relative to the Employment of Children in calico printing works. Although it had been ordered to be printed some time ago, it was only placed in the hands of Members within the last three or four days. He considered this a very important matter, and it was desirable that Members should have ample time to make up their minds on the subject. He therefore thought that it would be desirable to postpone it until after the recess.
 Sir J. Graham  said: Sir, it is my duty to rise on the present occasion to declare, on the part of Her Majesty's Government, their intention to resist the Motion which has just been made by my hon. Friend the Member for Somersetshire, and which has been seconded by my noble Friend the Member for West Sussex. And in doing so, although it will be my duty to comment with the freedom which our debates absolutely demand, on some of the arguments adduced by my hon. Friend and also by my noble Friend; yet, I need not say, that, entertaining for them, as well as for the Gentlemen with whom they act, the highest possible respect, I shall deeply regret if one word even should fall from me calculated in the least degree to cause pain either to my hon. or my noble Friend. Having made this very short preface, I think it is desirable that I should next discharge from the question under discussion everything that is extraneous to the matter of debate. In the first place, I would observe that we are not to-night discussing whether protection should be given to the agricultural interest. Upon that point I have the strongest possible feeling. I retain the opinion for which I have often contended in this House, and which I am prepared to contend for again, that, consistently with the interests of the entire community, protection must still be afforded and maintained for the agricultural interest. We are not to-night discussing whether this protection shall still be continued. Neither is the quantum of that protection now the subject of debate. My hon. Friend who brought forward this Motion has entered into very
 985 986 l., l. l. l. l. 987 l. d. d. d. 988 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.; l.; l., l. 989 l., l.; l., l., l. l. l.; l.; l.; l.; l. l.; l. l. l. 990 l. l. l. 991 l. l. 992 Member: l.; s. d. s. 993 994 995 996 l. l.; s. d. s. d. l.; 997 l., l., 998 s. s. l. 999 1000 1001 1002 l. l. l.; l.; l. l., l. 1003
 Sir R. H. Inglis  wished to learn from his right hon. Friend on what day after Easter he intended to move the second reading of the Bill which came down from the other House that night, relating to the Jews?
 Sir R. H. Inglis  had no hesitation in saying, that he must on principle object to the first reading of this Bill. He knew that it was usual, in regard to Bills brought from the other House, not to divide on the first readings. Within the last twenty years, he believed that there had been but three exceptions to this rule. Had the Bill originated in that House, he should have availed himself of the earliest opportunity of opposing it; but as it came from the House of Lords, he should, in conformity with the usual courtesy, allow the first reading to pass.
 Sir R. Peel  moved that the Bill be read a first time.
 Sir R. Peel  could not exactly state on what day he should move the second reading of this Bill. He must take the Estimates on the earliest days after Easter; but after the recess, he would mention on an early day when he would proceed with this Bill. He would take care that his hon. Friend had due notice. He presumed his hon. Friend had no objection to the first reading of it.
 Sir R. Peel  was sorry that he could not comply. If he gave way upon this article, there were many others in the same predicament which would have an equal claim.
 Sir R. Peel  moved the first Resolution—
 "That the Duties of Customs chargeable upon the Goods, Wares, and Merchandize hereafter mentioned, imported into the United Kingdom, shall cease and determine."
 Sir R. Peel : I shall in a very few sentences state the grounds on which I feel it my duty to offer my opposition to the Motion which has been made by my hon. Friend. I oppose that Motion, because the object of it being merely to transfer a certain sum from the county rate to the consolidated fund, in my opinion we should practise a delusion upon the agricultural interest by impressing them with the belief that such a measure can in any material degree operate to their benefit. My hon. Friend states that the total amount of relief which he means to propose is about 250,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1032 l., "I am directed to inform you that a communication from the Central Protection Society was laid before our managing Committee yesterday, of which the following is a copy:—'That it is the opinion of this Committee that a remission of several of the duties which Sir Robert Peel proposes to abolish in his remission of taxation, would tend materially to lessen the employment of the agricul-
 1033 l. l. l. 1034 1035 "The improvement, indeed, in manufacturing property has far exceeded all expectation; the transactions of the year present one unbroken series of remunerating prices for goods, and a very moderate cost of the raw material. At this season it has been usual to expect temporary stagnation; but at the moment all is activity. The spinners are full of orders, and steam power is taxed to the utmost to fulfil contracts. The woollen districts have much improved in condition, and may be pronounced to be busily and advantageously employed. The stocks of manufactured goods have been well taken off, and it is anticipated that the Colonial wool sales next month will be very brisk, and very full prices be obtained." "There are no unsound speculations in merchandise, as in the memorable year 1825; nor in American securities, nor an enormous bill circulation, as before the last panic; and our monetary relations with foreign countries are altogether favourable. All these circumstances combined again lead to the appearance of a moderate rate of interest for money." 1036 "As a remarkable evidence," says this circular, "of the increasing prosperity of the country, it is roost interesting to notice that the quantity of wheat sold during the last four months at the towns whose returns are made for the purpose of compiling the averages, amounted to 2,128,692 quarters, being no less than 247,707 quarters more than the sales of the corresponding period in 1843; while the quantity of foreign corn upon which duty has been paid during the whole of 1844 is nearly identical with that of the previous year." 1037 1038 "With reference to the accusation made on the other side of the House, that the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government had repudiated principles when in opposition which he had adopted when in office, that that charge had been made without due examination of the facts of the case." "The conduct pursued by the right hon. Baronet was in exact, permanent, and perfect consistency with the principles of free trade laid down by Mr. Pitt. His reason for saying this much was to refute the accusations brought against the present Government, that they had put forward their present views in order to obtain a change of Government, so as to get into power themselves."
 Sir R. Peel  hoped that the hon. Member would not consider that the answer which he was about to give manifested even the slightest mark of disrespect to the gallant officer in question, of whose abilities and character it was impossible that he should not entertain the highest sense. He had often had occasion to notice the high and distinguished services of this gallant officer; but with respect to the course suggested by the hon. Member, all he could say was, that it had not been the usual course to vote the thanks of that House for civil or diplomatic services. He thought that public inconvenience might arise from adopting such a course. As for reward, Her Majesty had already marked the sense she entertained of the distinguished services of Sir Henry Pottinger, by conferring on him a Baronetcy and the Grand Cross of the Bath.
 Sir Robert Peel  replied that it was intended to renew it.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the subject was under consideration. The evidence had not been in the possession of the Government a sufficient time to enable them to determine what measures to adopt. He trusted that they would be enabled before long to lay some measure on the Table.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that if the words, "all woods used for furniture," were inserted, they might introduce any description of wood under that name. If wainscot logs were to be admitted, what was to prevent all oak from the Baltic being also admitted free of duty, as it was adapted for articles of furniture.
 Sir Robert Peel  had not any wish to press any particular article against which there existed any particular objection; but he thought the Committee were going on very harmoniously. Whenever any serious
 1045
 Sir R. Peel  said, he should have no objection to consider it as omitted if it could be done.
 Sir Walter James  wished to ask his hon. Friend the Member for Somersetshire to be good enough to postpone the very important Notice that he had on the Paper for that evening, until after Easter. He begged to say that he made the request entirely on his responsibility, and at his own suggestion, and not having spoken one word to any Member of the Government on the subject. He certainly had asked the opinion of his hon. Friend the senior Member for the City of London. As there were four Members for London, it was rather difficult to distinguish them; but he had only mentioned the matter to his hon. Friend in consequence of the high character which he bore in that House. Of course he did not mean anything personal, but merely to allude to the excellence of the opinions of his hon. Friend on commercial subjects. His hon. Friend had assured him that if the settlement of the Tariff was postponed, it would prove most injurious to the commerce of the country, and would materially affect several branches of trade. After what fell from the right hon. Baronet the other night, he thought that nearly every one would be satisfied that the Motion of the hon. Member for Somersetshire could not have any immediate effect. If his hon. Friend wished to make a protest against the course pursued by the Government, he could do so equally well after Easter as at the present moment, although he (Sir W. James) would not say that he thought any such proceeding either prudent or politic; for 99 out of every 100 men who possessed common sense, must see that it could make no difference to the county Members whether they brought forward their Motion before or after Easter. Under these circumstances, he put the question to his hon. Friend in the most amicable spirit. He respected his hon. Friend's character and station as a county Member; but he thought if he brought forward his Motion at the present time, the country would be of opinion that on his hon. Friend and those who supported him alone rested the onus of delaying this important measure, and thus clogging the course of trade for a time, and so causing considerable national inconvenience.
 Sir W. Clay  supported the Amendment. He thought it was very unfair, after allowing a company to go to the expense of surveying and beginning their works, to permit the Admiralty to interfere and put a stop to their further progress.
 Sir W. Clay  wished to draw the attention of the noble Lord to Clause 18, which related to the interruption of the supply of gas and water by any railway company. He feared that at present the clause was too stringent, and would very materially interfere with the gas and water companies, and that much to their detriment. There were deputations in attendance outside the House from several large gas and water companies, and he knew that they were exceedingly anxious upon this point. He would recommend that the noble Lord should permit those persons to suggest some alteration in this clause which might be sufficient for the purpose they had in view; and he had no doubt, if allowed, that they would be able to propose such alterations as might be useful. It was quite true that they could put in special clauses in the special Bills; but it must be remembered that the projectors of every railway would be highly fortified in their position by being able to say, "Here is a Consolidation Bill. In it the
 956
 Mr. Hutt  asked what was mean by the article grease?
 Mr. W. Miles  rose, pursuant to notice, to move, as an Amendment—
 "That it is the opinion of this House, that in the application of surplus Revenue towards relieving the burthens of the country, by reduction or remission of taxation, due regard should be had to the necessity of affording relief to the Agricultural Interest." l. l. 964 965 from the Opposition benches. s. 966 s. s. d., s. d., s. d., s. d. 967 s., s. d.; s. s. s. s. s. d., s. d., s. d., s. d., s. d., 968 s. d., s. d., s. d., s. d., s. d.; s. d.; s., s., s. s. d., s. d., s. d., s. d., s. d., s. d., 969 s. d., s. d., s. d., s. d., s. d., s. d., 970 s. d.; s. d. s. d.; s. d. s. d.; s. d. s. d.; s. d. s. d.; s. d. s. d. s. d., s. d., 
 
 1841 1842 1843 1844 
 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. 
 First class inferior beef 3 3¾ 3 3 2 9¼ 2 7 
 Second class middling 3 72–12 3 7½ 3 2¼ 3 0¾ 
 Prime large oxen 4 1¼ 4 0¾ 3 7¼ 3 0¾ 
 Prime Scots 4 5½ 4 3½ 3 11 3 10¼ 
 First class inferior sheep 3 4¾ 3 5½ 3 5 3 2¾ 

 Second class inferior sheep 3 10¼ 3 9¼ 3 4½ 3 4 
 Prime coarse woolled sheep 4 5¼ 4 1 3 8½ 3 8 
 Prime Down sheep 4 9¼ 4 6 4 2¼ 3 11¾ 
 Lamb 6 7 5 3¼ 4 10¼ 4 10½ 
 Coarse calves 4 10¾ 4 1 3 9 3 9¼ 
 Prime small calves 5 4½ 5 0¾ 4 4¼ 4 3½ 
 Large hogs 4 5½ 4 4¾ 3 5¾ 3 3¾ 
 Porkers 4 10¾ 4 10½ 3 10¼ 3 10¾ 971 
 
 Price of compared with 
 Beef. Per stone. Per stone. 
 1 8¾ d. Lamb 1 s. 8½ d. 
 2 6 
 3 7¼ Calves. 
 4 7¼ 1 1 1¾ 
 Sheep. 2 1 1½ 
 1 2 
 2 6¼ Large hogs 1 1¾ 
 3 9¾ Porkers 1 0 
 4 10 s. d. s., s. d. s. s. 972 973 "I know a manufacturing establishment where 600 persons are employed, and a capital of at least 120,000 l., l. s. d. l., l., l. s. "As a manufacturer, he found that when it was well with agriculture he was getting a good price for his goods. The aristocracy and the gentry of the land were not the men who hoarded up money in the funds—they spent it, and thus spread abroad their incomes over the whole community, doing thereby a public benefit, by supporting trade, for, to use a known phrase, money, like manure, is worth nothing till spread abroad; trade created a demand for agricultural commodities, and thus they went hand in hand, both interests flourishing together. As a manufacturer, he had no sym-
 974 l, l. l. l. l. 975 s. s. s. l. l. s., s. 976 977 "The whole subject of the county rate is particularly worthy of a separate consideration. The improved arrangement of the gaols, admitting of the classification and separation of criminals; the payment of the cost of prosecutions, both at the Assizes and Quarter Sessions, not only of felonies, but of misdemeanors, whereby the want of a public prosecutor in England is now supplied; the vast expenditure on bridges for the improvement of the great inland lines of communication, an object of national importance—all these are growing charges imposed by law, levied by county rate, and borne principally by land, anomalous from the circumstance that purposes of general utility are thus defrayed by local taxation, subject to abuse, because placed under the control of authorities not personally response-
 978 l.; l.; l.; l. l., l. 979 divisum imperium; l. 980 l.; l. l. l., d., l. s. d. d., l. s. d., d., l. s. d., d., l. d., l., l. 981 "I know it will be said that the principles I have laid down are capable of much farther extension, and that I ought to have been led, in deference to those principles, to still more extensive reductions in taxation." "But," continued the right hon. Gentleman, "it is our object, while we establish good principles, at the same time viewing the state of society—the magnitude of the interests involved—the consequence to those interests of hasty and rash interference—our avowed object is to realise the utmost degree of good
 982 "He then thought that the amount of protection was so excessive that it could not be maintained—that 20 s. 983
 Lord Marsham  was of opinion that the clause was a very salutary one, as it made the companies aware that they must obtain the sanction of the Admiralty before they could attempt to interfere with any Admiralty works. It would be well if companies always received the sanction of the Admiralty prior to their bringing any Bill before Parliament, which would encroach upon navigable rivers, &c., which were exclusively under the management of the Admiralty.
 Lord Duncan  rose to move, pursuant to notice,
 "That a Select Committee be appointed, to inquire into the present mode of assessing, levying, and collecting the Window Duties in Great Britain, and to report their opinion thereupon to the House." 1055 l. "I beg to inform you that in almost all the poorer description of houses in the metropolis and large towns, owing to the window tax, there are sure to be some of the appurtenances left unlighted and unventilated. These appurtenances are, for the most part, the privies and; the wash-houses, the very places most requiring air and ventilation. In every old street in London, built before the tax was heavy, it will invariably be found there are a much larger number of windows than in the new ones, which have been built with a view to evade the tax. In every one of the houses that I have built since the re-survey in 1840 and 1841, I have, most reluctantly, been forced to give up three out of every four of the apertures for ventilation which ought to be placed, as a
 1056
 Mr. Edward Ellice  rose to bring before the House a practical grievance which pressed hard upon the linen weavers in Scotland. Their manufacture was generally carried on in buildings adjoining to and communicating with their own houses, and in each of these places there were from one to five looms; and as each loom required a window, they were brought within the operation of the tax. Manufactories were certainly entitled to exemption; but, as these buildings communicated with the dwelling-houses, they were brought within its operation. The weavers had tried to evade the tax by opening their shops to the public road, which certainly exempted them. But it was found that, from the dust blown into their shops from the road side, it was impossible to carry on their trade with the cleanliness which was requisite, and they had therefore been obliged to stop up the communication with the highway, and were thus again brought within the operation of the tax. He was assured, from his personal knowledge, that these were the facts of the case; and he left the case in the hands of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, satisfied that if the right hon. Gentleman would afford them relief, he would confer a great boon upon a very industrious class of persons.
 Mr. Williams  knew no tax more objectionable than a tax upon light and air. There was no tax which interfered so much with the comforts and the health of the inhabitants of towns especially as the window tax. It operated most oppressively, and if a Committee were granted for inquiry into its operation, he had no doubt that cases would be made out which would induce the House to make material changes. For instance, his constituents suffered extraordinary hardships from the tax. It was imposed upon houses and buildings generally—those houses, however, which were used for manufactures being exempt from it; whereas if a manufacture were curried on in the same building which was used for a dwelling-house, all the windows in the dwelling-house as well as in the manufactory were charged. It happened that his constituents carried on an extensive trade in weaving. They required a great deal of light, and the upper part of the house was devoted to their manufacture. The consequence was, that they were liable for every window in the house. This was a great hardship and injustice, and if an inquiry were granted, he was sure the Government would be inclined to consent to the removal of such a grievance.
 Lord Duncan  said, in consequence of the eagerness of the House to come to the New Zealand debate, he would only trespass upon its attention with a few words. The right hon. Baronet opposite had said he preferred the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose to his. He would only say that he (Lord Duncan) had humbly endeavoured to imitate the example of the right hon. Baronet when he sat at that side of the House: he would agree to nothing, but objected to everything. He was glad this discussion had taken place, as he thought it would do much good. As to his Motion necessarily leading to a repeal of the window tax, that was not the case; because there had been Committees upon the timber duties, tobacco, tea, and the import duties, none of which had been repealed in consequence. He could not follow the advice of the right hon. Baronet, but must take the sense of the House upon the Motion.
 The Solicitor General  said, the right hon. and learned Gentleman had talked with great fervour, but had not added much to the enlightenment of the House on the subject under its consideration. He would admit that the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. C. Buller) had temperately and fairly brought this question before the House, and he was quite sure that the House felt the propriety of entering on a debate of this nature, which was likely to involve so much personality, in the spirit in which the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard had opened it. He wished to call the attention of the House to the real question before them, and he trusted he should be able to show that there was no foundation whatever for the charge which had been made against the noble Lord—a want of good faith in sending out instructions not in the spirit of an agreement he had previously entered into with the New Zealand Company. He trusted he was able to show that the noble Lord had strictly pursued the terms of the agreement entered into between him and the Company, and that his Lordship had openly and candidly communicated everything that it was necessary the Company should know in connexion with this transaction. It was necessary to go back a little to the origin of the dispute, which arose upon the construction of an agreement entered into by the noble Lord then at the head of the Colonial Department (Lord J. Russell) and the New Zealand Company. Prior to the cession of the sovereignty, the Company, although not recognized by the Government, had become the purchasers of land from the natives to a very considerable extent. A question arose whether under their agreement with the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, then the Secretary for the Colonies, the Company was bound to make out their title to this land before they could receive a grant of it from the Crown. That continued an open question; and it was important that the House should bear this in mind, because it would afford a clue and an interpretation to many of the expressions in the correspondence upon
 1128 primâ facie primâ facie primâ facie 
 "1. To purchase 50,000 l. l. l. l. "2. That the town lots be purchased by auction, and that they be offered at the upset price of 100 l. "3. The suburban lots to be sold by auction. If the Company apply at one and the
 1129 l. "4. The country lots to follow the rule established by the Land Sales Act. "5. That credit be given to the Company by the Land and Emigration Commissioners, for the sum of 50,000 l., "For the purpose of effectually settling the question of the Company's title, and of quieting the minds of their purchasers, they suggest that your Lordship should forthwith direct his Excellency to make to the Company a conditional grant of the lands selected by their agents; the Company obtaining within the district so selected, the whole title which the Crown may have the power to grant: and having the option, in the event of prior claims being set up, of either excluding from the selected lands such portions as may appear to be subject to such prior claims, and in that case receiving a corresponding number of acres in lieu, or of including such portions, subject to the prior title, but obtaining from the Crown, in respect of them, the exclusive right of pre-emption enjoyed by the Crown." primâ facie l. 1130 primâ facie l. "We are to have 50,000 l. s. l. 1131 "You will there perceive, that Her Majesty's Government have conceded to the Company, as regards the district included in the original agreement, that with a view to facilitate the adjustment of their titles, the Local Government of New Zealand should be directed to make to the Company's agents a conditional grant of the lands selected by them on the terms definitely stated in that correspondence, the principle of that concession being to allow to the Company a  primâ facie primâ facie "That there was no reason for saying Government was indebted to the Company for any given quantity of land, or that any specified quantity of land was due to them from the Government (unless under direct purchases from itself), or that the Government was bound to make a compensation to the Company for its expenditure." 1132 "We rely on the satisfactory arrangement of every subject connected with our own land claims, as soon as Captain Fitzroy's arrival in New Zealand shall enable him to carry into effect your Lordship's instructions; but, at the same time, it appears essential that the public should be apprised of the nature of those instructions; and we should feel most thankful if your Lordship would communicate those instructions to us, and thus enable us to inform the public of the grounds on which we feel assured of the prompt and satisfactory arrangement of these land claims." 1133 "We offer these suggestions in full reliance on their being entertained by your Lordship in the spirit of candour, confidence, and anxiety for the well-being of the Colony. In whatever course may seem best to you for attaining the object we must equally have at heart, your Lordship may depend upon our cordial co-operation. Having laid the truth before you, we leave the matter in your Lordship's hands, with entire reliance in the benevolence and justice which will influence your decision."
 Mr. Rice Trevor  rose merely to acknowledge that the hon. Member for Liskeard had frankly stated his regret for having applied to Captain Fitzroy the expression which he had used with respect to that gentleman, during the discussion upon the subject which took place the other night. A communication to that effect had been made to a mutual friend immediately after the debate. He was happy, on the part of his friend Captain Fitzroy, to have this opportunity of acknowledging the hon. Gentleman's courtesy; and he thought that he might congratulate both the hon. Gentleman and the House upon the improved tone in which this discussion was now carried on.
 Mr. Rice Trevor  wished merely to state the impression on his mind, from what had been said on this and on the former occasion. It had been complained that Captain Fitzroy had not communicated the contents of certain letters he had received from Lord Stanley. The letter of Captain Fitzroy, expressing his doubts, was written on the 15th of June, and the reply of Lord Stanley was on the 26th of June; but Captain Fitzroy could not mention the private letter he had received from Lord Stanley conveying his Lordship's advice. Whether he was right or wrong in withholding it, it was quite clear that he could only have communicated it on the 26th, 27th, or 28th of June. He noticed this fact merely to show that there could have been no clandestine correspondence purposely concealed.
 Captain Rous  would pledge himself that, when the facts were investigated, Lord Stanley should be acquitted in the opinion of every impartial man in the House. If the advice of the New Zealand Company had been taken, at this moment a war of extermination would have been going on between the red man and the white man. All these evils had been prevented by the moral courage shown by the noble Lord. He had been at New Zealand himself, and knew the character of the New Zealanders; and the Company had formed a most erroneous estimate of it. They had estimated the character of the New Zealanders as similar to that of the people of New Holland; but they were as different to the people of New Holland as the high-bred Hindoo was to the Negro. Lord Goderich had allowed the independence of the country, and had given the people a flag. In 1839, the independence of the country had been acknowledged by England; but because certain gentlemen chose to speculate in land, in open defiance of what had been done, it became necessary to send out a Captain of the Navy there, to protect the people and keep order; and because one party had done an illegal act, the Company at once took possession of the land of New Zealand, of its forests and its minerals, and held the land of the Crown. He looked on the whole transaction as most unprincipled. The New Zealanders had just as much right to their property as any one in England. They spoke of the dispute between the Company and the Colonial Secretary, but entirely forgot the lords of the soil. They went on the good old principle, that
 "He should take who has the power, And he should keep who can." 1135
 Captain Rous  seconded the Motion. In doing so he had no wish to embarrass the Government in their financial arrangements for the present year. He was satisfied that a tax producing 1,700,000 l., 1066
 Mr. Hawes  observed, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer said that an inquiry would lead to no practical results, but would only raise unfounded expectations, and on that ground he refused the Committee. Now, would the right hon. Gentleman permit him to recall to his recollection instances in which Committees of inquiry had been granted, and which
 1091
 Mr. C. Buller  said, the House, in justice
 1105 1106 1107 1108 1109 1110 "Lord Stanley directs me to state his assent to these proposals, and to intimate farther, that he will be prepared to issue to the Governor of New Zealand, instructions to the effect proposed in your letter, for effectually settling the question of the Company's title to land in that Colony," 1111 1112 Hope: 1113 1114 primâ facie 1115 1116 1117 "That the Company may take land without the districts now claimed by them in exchange for an equal quantity of land claimed by them within those districts, provided that their purchase be satisfactorily proved. That the Company are to have 50,000 l. bonâ fide 1118 1119 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, that She will be graciously pleased to give directions that there be laid before this House, Copies of the Correspondence relating to the Manakon New Zealand Company."
 Mr. C. Buller  put it to the right hon. Baronet whether he thought it quite fair to quote the passage he had read to the House? In order to raise a feeling in the House against the New Zealand Company, he had gone into matter which he apprehended would show that the New Zealand
 1142
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that however anxious he was to vote for the remission of any tax, he did not think that in this case a Committee was desirable, as it would only tend to excite false hopes. If a proper duty could be laid by the square yard upon those enormous plate glass windows which were used only for show, and a proportionate relief given to the poor occupiers of small houses, he thought that would be the best way in which the inequalities of the tax could be remedied.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  thought that the House would not expect the production of those Despatches which had passed between the Colonial Office and the Governor of New Zealand, at and from the beginning of February. He could not consent to the production of Papers of such recent date. It would not be fair to Captain Fitzroy were they to be made public; and he trusted that the Motion would be modified in compliance with these views. He apprehended that the object of the hon. Member in proposing his Motion, he having gone at length into the entire case, was to enable him to make what further statements he might think necessary. Now, in the first place, he regretted that the hon. Member had not followed the course which he had himself adopted, and confined himself strictly to the subject before the House. The hon. Member had thought it necessary to refer to the original arrangement and consequent proceedings of Government, and to cast reflections upon the course pursued by the noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Office, as having evinced a disregard for the interests of a large body of Her Majesty's subjects inhabiting New Zealand. Now, the hon. Member ought to have stated that which he had not stated—namely, the difficulties which stood in Lord Stanley's way, and why it was that he had refused to grant what would avail as a title to the lands claimed by the New Zealand Company. He regretted that the hon. Member had only stated the question by halves. After mentioning what he had mentioned, on one hand, he ought to have stated, on the other, that the difficulties which stood in Lord Stanley's way were the claims of third parties—the natives and aboriginal inhabitants of New Zealand. The House should recollect what the circumstances I were of the settlement of New Zealand, I and should bear in mind what the condition of these parties was at the time when Lord Stanley undertook his administration. New Zealand was settled contrary to the wishes and intentions of Government. The Company in 1839 sent out an agent to purchase lands, and, concurrently with this, sent out a large body of settlers to take possession of them. In consequence of that expedition, Lord Normanby sent a Consul out to treat for the sovereignty of the island, giving him at the same time instructions that when he obtained it he should recognise no title acquired by Europeans, and that he should guarantee to the natives the possession of their lands.
 1121 l. 1122 1123 1124
 Mr. G. W. Hope  then said, that he believed it was fully understood in the course of the discussion the other night, that the general question respecting New Zealand and the affairs of the Company, should be left untouched until after the recess. He therefore, proposed to himself on the present occasion, to abstain entirely from entering upon it; and he hoped other Gentlemen would follow his example, and reserve the discussion of the question, to a future opportunity, of the state and condition of the Colony, and the measures which had been adopted in reference to it. He would make no apology for trespassing on the present occasion upon the attention of the House, as he thought it his duty to give the explanations which he now proposed to give relative to the personal charges as regarded the noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Department, and under whom he had the honour to act. And in giving these explanations he was most anxious to begin the discussion, because he believed that on the occasion on which he had recently addressed the House upon the subject of New Zealand, he had certainly addressed the House with some feeling and warmth; nor was it at all extraordinary that he had done so, understanding at that time, as he did, that a charge of a personal character was made against the honour and conduct of the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Colonies. On the present occasion, feeling convinced, as he did, that the explanations which he was about to give would satisfy the House, not even excepting the hon. Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Aglionby), of the impossibility of any deception having been practised by the noble Lord, he was led to the determination to avoid every irritating topic, and to confine himself strictly to his explanations, trusting, as the noble Lord the Member for London said, that they would be able to approach the discussion
 1095 1096 "For the purpose of effectually settling the question of the Company's title, and of quieting the minds of the purchasers, they suggest that your Lordship should forthwith direct his Excellency to make to the Company a conditional grant of the lands selected by their agents; the Company obtaining within the districts so selected, the whole title which the Crown may have the power to grant; and having the option, in the event of prior claims being set up, of either excluding from the selected land such portions as may appear to be subject to such prior claims, and in that case receiving a corresponding number of acres in lieu; or of including such portions, subject to the prior title, but obtaining from the Crown, in respect of them, the exclusive right of preemption enjoyed by the Crown, the Governor and Council being instructed, as soon as practicable, to establish some general rule for defining native titles, and settling the claims to land, and to do their best to aid the agents of the Company in effecting the necessary
 1097 1098 l., l. l. "My views of the existing arrangements are chiefly, that out of a certain extent of land in New Zealand, said to have been purchased by the New Zealand Company, the Government will confirm their title to as many acres as they have expended crowns in purchase and emigration, &c., provided that they prove the validity of their purchases." 1099 "On the first point I have to refer you to the correspondence with the New Zealand Company, enclosed in my despatch to the acting Governor of New Zealand of the 19th ult., No. 35. You will there perceive that Her Majesty's Government have conceded to the Company, as regards the district included in the original agreement, that with a view to facilitate the adjustment of their titles the local Government of New Zealand should be directed to make to the Company's agents a conditional grant of the lands selected by them on the terms definitely stated in that correspondence; the principle of that concession being to allow to the Company a  primâ facie 1100 "On the second point, I have certainly no difficulty in authorising you to assist the Company in making good their claims so far as may be consistent with a regard to the interests of other parties and of the community at large, on which point also I must refer you to the correspondence already referred to." "That the Company are to have 50,000 l. 1101 "On the third point, I would refer you to Lord John Russell's instructions to Captain Hobson of the 22nd of April, 1841." "I quite concur with you, that there is no reason for saying that the Government is indebted to the Company for any given quantity of land, or that any specified quantity of land is due to them from the Government (unless under direct purchases from itself), or that the Government is bound to make compensation to the Company for its expenditure." 1102 "I told you last evening, I think, when speaking of our new Colony, that I had just received a note from Mr. Elliot, urging us to submit our intended letter explaining our intentions respecting Auckland, as the answer to that already submitted with regard to the new Colony was waiting for the other communication, and could not be much longer delayed. I find, on coming here to-day, that it was through a misapprehension of our Secretary that a proposal for a now settlement was sent to your office at all. It was a draught prepared and approved conditionally by our Directors whilst we were in actual communication with the Land and Emigration Commissioners and Captain Fitzroy; but, owing to the turn which our discussion took, was not intended to be sent. We shall to-day send a letter to the Land and Emigration Commissioners, embracing both subjects, written at the suggestion of Mr. Duller, after seeing Lord Stanley; and we shall be much obliged if your Department will allow us to withdraw our letter of the 22nd of June." 1103 "Although I have thought it best to communicate to you this correspondence entire, it is not necessary that you should adopt measures with reference to any, except the first point to which I have adverted. The remaining questions will be reserved for the newly-appointed Governor, who will shortly proceed to the Colony; but I should wish you in the meantime to afford every facility to the agent of the Company for giving immediate effect to the arrangement which has been entered into for the acquisition of them by land in Auckland and its vicinity." 1104 "We should have failed in our duty to the public, as well as to your Lordship, had we not laid the truth fully before you; and, having done so, we leave the matter entirely in your Lordship's hands, with entire reliance"—[I beg the attention of the House to these words]—"We leave the matter entirely in your Lordship's hands, with entire reliance in the benevolence and justice which will influence your decision on the fate of the Company and its settlements."
 M. Aglionby  was sure the right hon. Baronet did not wish to misrepresent him; but he certainly had never stated that he would speak with more freedom if the noble Lord were present. What he had said was, that he spoke with the feeling which noble minds always express when referring to the absent.
 Mr. Aglionby  begged to explain. He denied having spoken in the name of the Company when he accused Lord Stanley of a breach of faith. The Company never said that the noble Lord had been guilty of such a gross breach of faith that they would hold no further communication with him; and he did not think the right hon. Baronet was justified in putting such a construction upon what had fallen from him. What he stated was, that he would, individually, hold no communication, or would not discuss with Lord Stanley matters which required plain dealing or good faith.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that having been frequently alluded to in the course of the debate, he felt called upon to offer a few observations to the House. It was true that he had said that there was a breach of faith and want of candour on the part of the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies; and how far he was justified in making that charge would appear by the facts he would state to the House. He had no fault to find with the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies (Mr. G. W. Hope); but he could not say so much for the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General, who appeared to him to have assumed the character of an advocate. When the noble Viscount opposite (Viscount Ingestre) declared himself to be connected with the New Zealand Company, there was a laugh. ["No, no."] There was a cheer, at any rate; but he (Mr. Aglionby) begged to say, that there were persons belonging to that Company as honourable in station, as high-minded, and as well known, as any of those who sat on the Ministerial Bench. The Solicitor General had totally and entirely misrepresented the wishes and intentions of the New Zealand Company. The hon. and learned Gentleman said that the Company were anxious to go to Auckland and colonize it; but that was entirely a mistake. On the contrary, it was only when it was represented to the Company that Auckland was in a state of distress, that they were induced to go and deal with the circumstances in the best way
 1136 1137
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that of the many duties which devolved on the individual who filled the situation which he had the honour to fill, none were more disagreeable than to be called upon to defend the continuance of a tax which gentlemen wished to have modified or repealed. It was impossible to deny that every tax in itself, however wisely apportioned, was an evil; and pictures might be drawn of the operation of any tax upon some particular class of the community, which would induce Gentlemen in that House, as well as those out of doors, to wish that such a tax should no longer
 1067 1068 1069 1070 1071 1072
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was not aware of any such order having emanated from the Post Office Department as that alluded to. With respect to the other subject to which the hon. Member referred of packets sent by post being opened in the Post Office, he rather suspected that the hon. Gentleman had been led into error by the account which he had received. It was certainly true that in consequence of a pair of scissors, and also a part of a deceased body in preparation, having been forwarded through the Post Office, it became necessary to make an order that articles such as bottles, and flesh, and fish, by which other parcels going in the same bags might be injured, should not be allowed to pass through the Post Office. He had given a copy of that order to the hon. Gentleman, and it might happen that under it parcels, containing such articles as scissors, might, when necessary, be opened, but there had been no other order whatever authorising the opening of parcels issued from the Post Office. He had heard of but one complaint of any other description of parcels being opened, and that was under investigation.
 Mr. Hume  was sorry to see the House so inattentive to a subject of such great importance. It seemed to be the opinion of some parties that the noble Lord the Member for Bath (Lord Duncan) had acted injudiciously in bringing forward this question at the present moment; but he (Mr. Hume) thought, on the contrary, that this was the very best time at which it could be brought under discussion, and for this reason—the right hon. First Lord of the Treasury was now engaged in the very laudable task of revising and altering the system of taxation in this country; and as an hon. and learned Member had last night stated in his (Mr. Hume's)opinion most correctly, that the right hon. Gentleman was carrying out alterations which would conduce most materially to the welfare of the country. Taking it for granted that the
 1078 1079 l., l., l., l., l. s. d., l., l., l.; l. l. d. 1080 "The window duties, as now assessed, operate as a premium upon defective construction. The Legislature now says to the builder, plan your houses with as few openings as possible; let every house be ill-ventilated by shutting out the light and air; and as a reward for your ingenuity you shall be subject to a less amount of taxation than your neighbours. The Board is, of course, aware that windows are now charged by a scale—the tax increasing at an average rate of about 8 s. d. l. s. d; l. s. d., l. s. s. "I hope there is no occasion to remind the noble Lord the Chancellor of the Exchequer of the pledge he gave us some time ago relative to the tax on windows. I am quite sure, that the noble Lord is desirous of rendering it as little oppressive as possible; and that if he cannot reduce its amount now, he will endeavour to do so next Session. If the noble Lord would limit the tax to its present amount, and allow every man who has paid the window rate for an entire year to continue to pay the same composition, and to open additional windows, it would be a very great relief. It is not at all uncommon in old-fashioned houses,
 1081 "I have now to beg leave to bring up a clause which was suggested to me by the hon. Member for Oxford, enabling persons to open fresh windows in houses at present existing without any additional charge. As I apprehend there will be no objection to the clause, it will be unnecessary for me to trouble the Committee with any observations upon it. I will, therefore, only say, that it cannot occasion any loss to the Revenue; its only effect is to prevent an increase of the Revenue in the case of houses already existing."
 Mr. Milnes  had only a sentence to utter, and that sentence was not his own. It was a passage from the lectures of Professor Merivale, who declared,—
 "That never had there been a commercial undertaking in which the love of gain was
 1143
 Mr. Sheil : Nothing has been said in relation to Captain Fitzroy in this debate tending to affect his reputation. He appears to me, after perusing the Papers laid on the Table of the House, to be a most appropriate representative of the Colonial Office. It has been justly observed, that my hon. Friend the Member for Liskeard, has said nothing of Lord Stanley's intentions—of his intentions the noble Lord has the best, and almost the only cognizance; but it must be remembered that with good intentions a consummate unfitness for Government may be combined. This case lies within a very narrow compass. The first document to which I shall call the attention of the House is an extract from a letter of Lord John Russell, dated May 20, 1841. He says,—
 "The Company are entitled to receive 531,929 acres of land at present, and they are hereafter entitled to receive 400,000 or 500,000 acres more." 1125 "That credit be given to the Company for 50,000 acres of land, in consideration of their abandoning their claims to 50,000 acres out of the quantity to which they were already entitled." assumpsit 1126 Hope: hiatus valde deflendus? "We hope that no practical evil will result from this misunderstanding." [Hear, hear. I will read on:] "But it is not the less fatal to our utility that there should be any possibility of their occurring. It is alike destructive of our energy and prejudicial to the policy of the Government, that in the infancy of a Colony we should carry on the all-important work of providing it with inhabitants, without concerting beforehand everything that relates not only to the carrying out of the emigrants, but to the policy to be adopted towards them after the establishment in their new homes." 1127
 Mr. Mangles  expressed his regret that so much acid had been thrown into the debate by the Solicitor General. He was quite satisfied to let the matter go before the country on the debate of that night.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  hoped that his noble Friend was about to divide—and on the ground upon which the question was put by Her Majesty's Ministers—namely, that the Motion was tantamount to a repeal of the window tax. It was upon that account he regretted that his noble Friend had changed his former Motion for a repeal of the tax into a Motion for an inquiry. His constituents wanted no inquiry on the subject. They had had sufficient experience of the tax already, and their wish, as expressed to him was, that it should be repealed as soon as possible: and, therefore, when he heard that this
 1092
 Mr. Wakley  asked whether they were to understand the tax was to be given up? On that subject the most extraordinary silence prevailed on both sides of the House—a silence which appeared perfectly inexplicable. Was the tax aban-
 1086 1087
 Mr. Ewart  wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, on the subject of the Post Office. It had been the custom, since facilities had been given by the penny postage, for London tradesmen to send down small parcels by post to their customers in the country, and it had become a constant and extensive practice. He had understood that, in consequence of an order which had been lately issued, various parcels of this description had been opened. He did not believe that it was the intention of the order to give any such authority to the Post Office officials. A case had occurred in Regent-street, which had come under his cognizance, in which a parcel had been opened. He, however, felt convinced that it was not the intention of the Government to sanction such a practice; and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would give him an answer to that effect, so that it might be conveyed to the public. There was another question upon, the subject of the Post Office, which he wished to bring under the consideration of the right hon. Gentleman. If newspapers, sent from one party to another in London happened to have the
 1054 d., s. d.
 Sir C. Napier  would not have interfered in this debate, if he did not represent a large body of constituents who were deeply interested in this question. The noble Lord who had brought forward this question had shown great industry and ability in the statement of the case, and had clearly shown that the tax was unequal—that it pressed more heavily upon the poor than upon the rich. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had reminded the noble Lord that when persons were making inquiries as to particular measures, it often happened that the persons who furnished them with the information misled them. Now the noble Lord had stated several instances of houses being shut up in consequence of the operation of this tax; and there were only two cases in which it appeared he had been mistaken; and even in these cases, it was
 1076 l. l. l. l. 1077
 Mr. F. Baring  feared, after what had been said by his hon. Friend who had just sat down, that he must trouble the House with a few observations, though he had hoped that he should not have been obliged
 1082 "I perfectly recollect having stated that I would bring the subject before the House; but I do not recollect saying, and I am pretty sure that I did not say, that I should concur in the proposition." Hume: 1083 1084 "The Board relies upon your discrimination in not making any charges which may reasonably be considered by the public in the light of vexatious taxation." l. 1085 l.
 Captain Pechell  said, whatever doubt they might have as to the policy of agreeing to this Motion, there could be no doubt whatevever that it had been introduced by a most talented and excellent speech by the noble Lord. A more convincing argument he had never heard, and the facts which the noble Lord had brought forward with such diligence showed very clearly the injustice and iniquity of this tax. He thought that there could be no difference of opinion as to the manner in which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had replied to it. The principal topic of the noble Lord's speech was in respect to the vexatious way in which this tax was levied and assessed. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had, however, wholly avoided grappling with that part of the subject. He should wish to refresh his
 1073 1074 s. d., l. 1075 s. l. s.,
 Sir R. Peel  said: I consider, Sir, it is the duty of every Government, before coming down to this House to propose the remission or alteration of any particular tax, to take a general view of the bearing of the whole system of taxation, and upon that to submit to the House those measures which it appears to them that the circumstances of the country require. That is the course we have pursued during the present year, and we have every reason to believe that that course has been satisfactory to the people.
 1088 1089 l. Duncan: l. d. l. d., d. l.; d. l., 1090 l.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that was all he meant to convey in the construction which he put upon the hon. Gentleman's words. But he begged to ask whether the hon. Gentleman had not the whole of last Session to make any charge he liked in the presence of the noble Lord? From the 1st of February, when the New Zealand Company were put in possession of the letter which his noble Friend had written to Captain Fitzroy, until the close of the Session, he had a full opportunity of challenging Lord Stanley in his presence; and yet he did not avail himself of it. Another hon. Gentleman said that the contents of that letter were not known to the Company until June; but the Committee did not examine any evidence until that month. The first witness was examined on the 23rd of May, and the second day of examination was in the month of June, so that there was, after all, no ground for that objection of the hon. Member. But why, he would beg to ask, in moving for the appointment of the Committee, was not the conduct of
 1139 Hutt; "We should have failed in our duty to the public as well as your Lordship, had we not laid the truth fully before you; and having done so, we leave the matter in your Lordship's hands, with entire reliance in the benevolence and justice which will influence your decision on the fate of the Company and its settlements." 1140 "We did not believe that even the royal power of making treaties could establish, in the eye of our courts, such a fiction as a native law of real property in New Zealand. We always have had very serious doubts whether the Treaty of Waitangi, made with naked savages by a Consul invested with no plenipotentiary powers, without ratification by the Crown, could be treated by lawyers as anything but a praiseworthy device for amusing and pacifying savages for the moment. But we thought it most probable, that whenever possession of New Zealand should be actually obtained by Her Majesty, the view hastily adopted by Lord Normanby would be found impracticable, and abandoned." 1141
 Sir R. Peel  said: I consider that I was perfectly justified in referring to the document alluded to by the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard. The hon. Gentleman tried to justify his charge of want of faith against my noble Friend by saying that my noble Friend, in his letter to Governor Fitzroy, had used the expression that he (the Governor) should aid the objects and claims of the Company "as far as was consistent with the interests of other parties and with those of the community at large." The hon. Member stated that this construction was a breach of the original agreement with the Company. I conceive, therefore, that I was justified in showing that there existed good reason for an instruction, which, after all, is only in conformity with the terms of a letter of the 8th of May, from Mr. Somes, on the part of the Company, and which asked Government to do its best to help the Company in their purchases of lands. My noble Friend directed the Government to do so; but to do so in the manner that should be most consistent with the rights of other parties—of the natives and the community at large. How far, after the previous expression of the Company's views, these words can be construed into a breach of faith I will cheerfully leave the good sense of the country to judge.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the impression which had been left on his mind as the result of the discussion was one which he thought must be shared generally by the House—namely, that his noble Friend the Secretary for the Colonies was entirely acquitted, either of any intention to deceive, or of any actual deception. He inferred that to be the impression of the House, because all those hon. Members who were present when the debate commenced, and who heard the explanation of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies, had, with very few exceptions, left the House; and he thought they would have remained and taken an opportunity of stating their opinions, if they had entertained sentiments adverse to the statements made by the hon. Gentleman. He now saw on the first Bench opposite, out of the four hon. Gentlemen who were occupying it, three members of the New Zealand Company. There were four Gentlemen on the second bench, and they were all members of that Company. There were eight Gentlemen, therefore, on the opposite benches, and seven out of the eight were members of the New Zealand Company. [Mr.  Mangles: 1138
 Mr. Hutt  wished to correct one misstatement, which had just procured for the hon. and learned Gentleman the cheers of his party. At an early period of the
 1134
 Viscount Ingestre  totally differed with his hon. and gallant Friend. Having been for some years connected with the New Zealand Company, he rose for the purpose of saying that he had given his perfect acquiescence to all the acts of that Company; and he would further state, that their acts had been guided solely with the view of promoting the general good of the Colony; and the more that question was gone into the more that would be apparent. He could not, however, agree in the words of the hon. and learned Member for Cockermouth, that the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies had been guilty of fraud and deception. No one who knew the noble Lord would ever attribute such motives to him.
 Lord Duncan , seeing the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General present, begged leave to call to his recollection the conversation which had ensued on the occasion of his accompanying a deputation lately in an interview which the hon. and learned Gentleman had granted. The hon. and learned Gentleman then stated that great inconveniences, he was aware, had arisen in consequence of the passing of this Act.
 The Solicitor General  said, he did not think that he should be called upon to answer this question. He hardly thought it fair (a conversation having taken place upon an interview with a deputation) to state in this House the casual observations which might have dropped from him when these tradesmen had waited upon him. He did not recollect exactly what he had said at that interview; but he did state that they must have suffered great inconvenience indeed if, as they had declared, they were not able to recover the debts that were due to them, and he asked them whether they could suggest any remedy. He certainly threw out several suggestions himself, most of which were rejected by them. Nothing at all tangible was agreed upon.
 Lord Duncan  wished to ask a question of the right hon. Baronet upon a subject of some importance to the trading interests of this country; he alluded to an Act of Lord Brougham's, which was passed last Session, to amend the Law of Bankruptcy. In Section 57 of that Act, the power of arrest upon actions for debt not exceeding the sum of 20 l.
 Mr. Beckett Denison  said, that as many rumours were in circulation respecting the proceedings of the Railway Department of the Board of Trade, and that arrangements had been made between contending railroad companies, under the cognizance, and at the suggestion, of that Department, he wished to put two or three questions on the subject to his right hon. Friend the Vice President of the Board of Trade. The first question was, whether the Railway Department of the
 1155 Gazette
 Mr. Villiers  was not about to defend the agricultural interest, but he could not avoid saying that in this case a portion of that interest had been very ill used. It seemed to him that the Member for Essex had as good a right to object to the repeal of the duty on grease, as any other agricultural Member had to object to the repeal of the duty on other produce. If the House recognised the principle or protecting agricultural produce for the purpose of raising its price, why should not the hon. Member (Mr. Bramston) claim that advantage for grease? The hon. Member for Essex represented the grease interest as others represented the corn interest, and fully bore out the statement of the hon. Member for Stockport, that one of the greatest absurdities connected with the protective system was the protection amongst the agriculturists themselves of one county against another. They were divided when they were robbing each other, and they were united again only when they were protected, or, to use a coarser expression, all robbing the public together. In the present case, the hon. Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Aglionby) stated that he was an agriculturist, and that he had a great number of sheep which he wanted to grease, of course it was therefore important to him to have grease cheap; whilst, on the other hand, the hon. Member for Essex, who was also an agriculturist, who did not live in Cumberland, and had no sheep to grease, but had grease to sell, was desirous that there should be a good price for grease. They both represented branches of the agricultural interest—sheep and grease; and the representative of the sheep interest pressed the representative of the grease interest not to divide, as he was desirous that
 1174
 Sir W. James  said, that hon. Gentlemen had of late been in the habit of giving the names of certain dramatic characters to one another; the hon. Member for Shrewsbury, for instance, had designated the Prime Minister as the political Petruchio, and another hon. Member had given a name to the hon. Member for Montrose. As that was the practice, he (Sir W. James) suggested that hon. Members opposite attempting to stand between the two parties in that House, were something like Captain Macheath between his two charmers in the  Beggars' Opera. 1175
 Mr. Gladstone  recognised in the arguments of the hon. and learned Member an old friend. The same statements he had heard made in 1842 with greater force and plausibility in respect to the supply from the River Plate. He was sorry that a discussion should take place on that point; but having taken place, it behoved them to deal with it in the usual manner. It appeared, on the whole, most desirable to try the experiment of admitting a large number of articles in a raw state, or the next state to it, without any duty, for the benefit of trade. The question that then presented itself for solution was, whether or not the article before the House was one of them. On the ground of consistency, as well as on the ground of principle, he
 1177 d. d.,
 Sir J. Tyrrell : The hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Ward) has now, this evening, made two vituperative speeches against the agricultural interest; and the hon. Gentleman the Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. Villiers) thinks that he is on all occasions perfectly justified in imputing the basest and most interested motives to that interest. By that hon. Gentleman, and by other hon. Gentlemen beside him, the most unmeasured abuse is poured out upon us in this House night after night. I had not the honour of being present the other night to take a part in the debate introduced by the hon. Member for Stockport (Mr. Cobden). Had I been present I should have, in all probability, taken part in that debate. I thought that, at the early period of this evening, it was conceded, on all hands, that the question of principle was for the present to be sunk, and that such hon. Gentlemen as
 1186 Wyndham; 1187
 Mr. Villiers : The hon. Baronet the Member for Essex, who has just sat down, says that he has listened twice to-night to vituperative attacks from an hon. Gentleman on this side of the House upon the agricultural interest. Now, I ask hon. Members present, which of them heard a single word in what had been said to-night to justify the words which the hon. Baronet has used, more especially toward myself? He says that charges have been made against him. I never imputed base motives to him, or to any interest with which he might be connected. I have stated freely and frequently what I conceive to be the pernicious effects of the law which the hon. Baronet, and hon. Gentlemen beside him, obstinately uphold. I state what I have before stated again, and the only answer I get from
 1188 John Tyrell
 Mr. Stafford O'Brien : If the question was only one of mere personality, I would not have risen on the present occasion. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Sheffield says that he can hardly express his contempt for us interfering in these matters; and he used the word, as he admitted, in a Parliamentary sense, in which he was perfectly justified. He says that he totally differs from us, and that it is unworthy of our position, as the representatives of a great interest in this country,
 1189 1190 John Tyrrell: 1191
 Lord J. Russell : I agree with the right hon. Baronet that nothing can be fairer than that the hon. Gentleman should have a discussion upon what he believes is of considerable interest to his constituents; and also I agree with him that it was impossible to make much progress in discussing the Tariff after half-past one in the morning. But with regard to this and similar articles it seems to be that the conduct of hon. Gentlemen opposite is not satisfactory. If hon. Gentlemen are bound by their duly to their constituents to discuss these questions—if that be true with regard to lard, why is it not also true with regard to other articles of agricultural produce? Why is it false with regard to others? or why should not hon Gentlemen consent to a diminution of protection—(I stop not to inquire what is protection or what is free trade)—with regard to large as well as with regard to these small commodities? I still think that there ought to be some candour to one's constituents in these matters. Undoubtedly, argument and authority are upon one side, but yet there are a great many people who say that the other is the right side. Well, then, let them fairly say so, and act up to it in all things; not merely with regard to lard or grease, but with regard to the higher and more important interests of the country. If you maintain protection, do not support those who remove it; but remember the counsel which the right hon. Gentleman gave to Mr. Handley in 1841:—
 "If you think that protection is the wisest policy, and yet support the Government, you are acting like the policeman who sees a madman in the street brandishing a sword about on all sides, and yet does not rush forward to stop him and to prevent the injury he is sure to do."
 Mr. Gladstone  said, whatever might be the advice which the noble Lord addressed to those numerous Members of the House who were charged with the duty of especially supporting agriculture, they would not fail to remember that a great and important system of national policy was often rendered ridiculous by its constant application to petty details. In opposition to the noble Lord, the substance and meaning of whose speech was, "If you want to continue the Corn Laws, why do you vote for a duty of 2 s. s. s. s. l. 1199 s.
 Sir W. James  would only detain the Committee whilst he made one remark, in answer to a question of the hon. Member for Stockport, which he was unwilling should go forth to the country without a reply. The hon. Member had stated that the object which his party had in view was abundance, and he had asked what was the object of hon. Members on that side. Their object, he begged to say, was abundance, with security for its continuance.
 Mr. Gladstone  said, that the trade to which this article applied had increased about 50 per cent. by the reductions which had already been carried out.
 Sir W. James  said, that as his Amendment received no support, he would not press it.
 Mr. T. Egerton  said, that the abolition of this duty would seriously injure the county he represented. Nothing could be more serious than diverting the course of trade; great reductions had been from time to time made in the duties on silk, and now the reduction of 1 s. 1201
 Sir W. James  said, that though it was somewhat dangerous for any Member now to get up and support protection to any existing interest, he yet felt bound to lay
 1200 s. d. s. d. s. s. d., s. d.
 Colonel Wyndham  intended to speak openly and plainly, and the House, he was sure, would indulge him in so doing, as it was not very often that he occupied their attention. In 1841, the manufacturing Members as he had before described them to be, were like jacks in the box, continually jumping up and down in their places, and presenting themselves to the disgust and ridicule of the country; and be was now sorry to see his agricultural friends following their example. He did not hesitate to tell the House that the agricultural interest would profit by the measures of the right hon. Baronet. When the right hon. Baronet brought these measures forward, his ultra friends on that side of the House clamoured out, "What was there for us?" He then undertook to say to them, "Gentlemen, there is nothing for you." They had a Protection Society in Bond Street, at which noblemen, gentlemen, and farmers attended, and that society issued its dictates to the minor associations in the country, and those minor associations took it upon themselves—and he considered that in so doing they took a great liberty—to dictate to Representatives of constituencies in Parliament. He himself was a staunch friend to the farmer. He was favourable to protection, nor would he abate in the least degree his zeal for the agricultural interest, which he thought should be protected; but he begged the House to understand that he was not one of those ultra gentlemen of whom he had just spoken. Could it be supposed, he would, ask, that a farmer, entirely occupied as he generally was with his fields, his crops, his sheep, and his calves, could have a comprehensive view of the state of affairs, or of what was fitting to be done for the country? He would tell the House and the country that he held his opinions free and unfettered, and that he would not vote for any man, or for any measure at the dictation of any one. He had been in that House since 1841, and considered that he had done his duty as a Member of that House. [Mr.  Cobden and others: 1183
 Lord Arthur Lennox  would not have risen on that occasion to address the Committee, but for the statement which had been made by the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had just taken his seat. He could not discover how it was that his hon. Friend could venture again to address his constituents, one of whom he (Lord A. Lennox) had the honour to be—having in the extraordinary speech which he had just made, asserted that the farmers of Sussex knew little of any matters but their turnips and their fields, and that they were not competent to form opinions upon matters which affected the well-being of the State. He was sure that his hon. and gallant Friend in using such terms, did not mean to insult the men to whom they referred. He thought, however, that if his hon. and gallant Friend went back again to that constituency, he was not very likely to be again returned.
 Lord G. Somerset  fully concurred in the justice of the remarks of the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, that it was most advisable to secure the benefits of proper religious instruction for the great numbers of people thus brought together; but on the other hand, he fully agreed with the hon. Member for Lambeth, that it was better to leave this to the good-will and proper feeling of the companies themselves, who were connected by locality with those communities, than to have it done by means of special provisions
 1146
 Lord G. Somerset  then moved some Amendments of which he had given notice, which with an additional clause were ordered.
 Lord G. Somerset  regretted, both for the sake of hon. Members and the Speaker, that they had been obliged to have recourse to the present proceedings; but particular reasons had rendered it necessary that these Bills should be passed as expeditiously as possible, as it was considered that great public benefits would be conferred by them. It was found impossible to proceed with this
 1148
 Mr. Hawes  would take that opportunity of asking the noble Lord opposite, whether there would be any objection in framing the Standing Orders so as to require all railway companies intending to conduct any works likely to interfere with navigation, to give a notice of their intention so to do to the Admiralty, similar to that they were called upon to give to Parliament. And after this it might be expedient to pass an Act empowering the Admiralty to exercise their authority in preventing such works as might be deemed obstructions to navigation. At all events one result would be, of carrying out his proposition, that there would be time sufficient for Parliament to be acquainted with the full merits of any case that might arise between any public company and the Board of Admiralty. He would take that opportunity of saying, in reference to the manner in which that House had been recently occupied, that he hoped they would never have these morning sittings again. He thought such sittings would be perfectly impossible for the remainder of the Session, if they were to do common justice to the great quantity of private business which had to be transacted. He presumed these morning sittings would not be continued after Easter; but if they were, he conceived it would be next to an impossibility to have a House, as more than four-fifths of the Members would be occupied in Private Committees, and consequently it could not be expected that the public business would be fairly or satisfactorily done. At the close of a Session there might be some reason for morning sittings; but, for his part, he should strongly protest against any renewal of the morning sittings after Easter.
 Mr. Hawes  could not avoid bearing his testimony to the great liberality evinced in respect of the matter alluded to by several great railway companies; and he conceived that this spotaneous consideration for the spiritual wants of those neighbourhoods which were in any way connected with them was more praiseworthy than if they had been compelled by compulsory enactments to do so. That these companies felt the responsibility which rested with them in this respect was evident by the course they were pursuing. The Great Western Railway Company, for instance, were, at one of their stations, near Swindon, erecting a church and a school; and the London and Birmingham Company were also doing the same at one of their stations near Wolver-ton. And this mode of meeting the spiritual wants of the population around them was much more creditable and advisable than were it done under the compulsory provisions of an Act of Parliament.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that the bottle dealers could by law obtain the drawback of duty by exporting their bottles; and he did not see, therefore, the object of the Chancellor of the Exchequer in refusing to grant them the drawback on the remission of the duty. It would only compel them to export, and would be injurious to the Revenue.
 Mr. Hawes  was surprised at the answer of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Wine merchants could not by possibility export their bottles, as it involved the export of the wine.
 Mr. Newdegate  would advise hon. Gentlemen opposite to abandon the tone in which they frequently indulged towards the agricultural classes. He could tell them that whilst such a tone did little to advance their purposes, it went far to
 1182
 Colonel Sibthorp  expressed his full concurrence in what had fallen from the hon. Member for Lambeth. The fact of hurrying through two such important Bills as were then before them was almost unheard of in the previous legislation of this country; and for the many years' experience he had in that House he had never known any similar proceeding. If the constituencies of the country could only see them at that moment, with hardly a dozen Members present—legislating at what he might call railroad speed—disposing of two most important measures, at morning sittings, they would have very little confidence in their Representatives. He would take that opportunity of saying, that though he had, at the request of a large and respectable portion of his constituents, presented, as he should be always ready to present when asked by them, two petitions in favour of a railroad, his own sentiments on this system still remained unaltered. He gave the noble Lord near him (Lord G. Somerset) every possible credit for his desire to perform the public business most fairly and efficiently; but at the same time he should enter his strong protest against the manner in which these two measures had been carried, and he hoped they would never again witness a repetition of such scenes as that House presented at the recent morning sittings.
 Mr. Horsman  asked the noble Lord opposite (Lord Jocelyn) whether any measures had been adopted for placing sugar, the produce of our possessions in Penang on the same footing with regard to import duties, as sugar the produce of other parts of our East India possessions? The sugar growers of Penang were, at present, subject to much hardship. Some time ago an Act had passed authorising the consignment of East Indian sugar at the low rate of duty. The Penang planters, imagining that their produce would be treated on the same terms with the produce of our other East India dominions, had invested much capital in making arrangements for its growth, but the privilege had been hitherto confined to the produce of the East India Company's territories. Representations of the grievance had been made to the Board of Control, and that department promised to send out a communication on the subject to the Governor General in Council. This was a year ago; but the merchants and growers of Penang had as yet received no information as to what they were to expect. A Deputation from the planters and merchants of Penang had since waited on the Board of Control. It had been graciously received, and was dismissed with assurances that the case would be taken into favourable consideration. He (Mr. Horsman) wished to ask the noble Lord whether any instructions had since been sent to the Governor of India on the subject? If a fair opportunity were given to our Penang settlements we might import thence an amount of 20,000 tons of sugar yearly.
 Mr. Strutt  was anxious to say a few words, as the Representative of a town (Derby) where the silk manufacture was carried on. The noble Lord the Member for Sunderland observed, that it was melancholy to see those who were, in the abstract, friends of free trade, become with respect to matters affecting their own interests immediately advocates of protection. He hoped, in his own case, to show an instance to the contrary. He would draw the attention of the House to a memorial which proceeded from his own constituents. In that memorial they stated that, though the abolition of the duty on thrown silk might be injurious to them in a pecuniary point of view, yet, as they were fully satisfied of the justice of free trade and the blessings it would confer on the country, they were willing to bear any loss which the removal of that duty might cause to fall on them. They were of opinion that private interest should not be allowed to interfere with the public good, and therefore they were not opposed to the abolition of the duty in question; and they moreover stated that they were desirous that all duties levied for protection, either with respect to trade or agriculture, should be immediately abolished. He would not add one word to that memorial, except to say, that it was signed by a majority of the silk throwsters of Derby, and to express his hope that the noble example set by them would be followed by other protected interests.
 Mr. Sergeant Murphy  declined to divide against the expressed opinion of both sides of the House.
 Mr. Serjeant Murphy  said, that the question before the Committee was one in which his constituents were very much interested. There were no less than fifty tan yards in Cork, and he understood that those engaged in that branch of trade would suffer very considerably in their interests by the removal of the duty from tanned hides. He had been instructed that the manufacturers of leather in this country obtained no equivalent in the
 1176 d. d.,
 Mr. Bankes  said, the hon. Member who had just sat down had undoubtedly given an instance of a Representative voting avowedly against the interests of his constituents, ["Oh, oh!"] Yes, against the interests of a particular body of his constituents, on account of a public principle. [Mr.  Strutt: 1203 l., 1204
 Mr. Darby  did not know any thing that tended more to the improvement of agriculture than the growing of tares; he should therefore be sorry that anything should be done to check the system of growing tares.
 Mr. Darby  was sorry that the present
 1194 1195
 Mr. Darby  said, with reference to the statement as to those small articles, that he thought every Member had a right to bring forward any subject which affected his own constituents.
 Mr. Aglionby  would suggest to the House that it was neither expedient nor just that these personalities should continue. He took the questions as they came before him. He did not ask if they were brought forward by one class or another. He dealt with the articles on their own merits. He was very desirous that the Tariff should pass, and he would in-treat hon. Gentlemen not to throw impediments in the way. If he had constituents who were interested in the question, he would willingly consult their interests as far as was consistent with the interest of the public at large; but in all questions of a general nature he should only consider the general good. The Motion of the one hon. Member for Essex and the observations of the other seemed to him to be somewhat like a schism in the agricultural interest. The agriculturists in the northern parts of England and in Scotland, would receive a direct and immediate benefit from the reduction of duty in the article under discussion. Some sheep farmers in these districts expended from 300 l. l.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, it had been represented to him that the hides included in this Resolution were a manufactured article in an advanced state; and were, therefore, not within the principle recognised in the Tariff. If they were a manufactured article, he would ask, ought they to be included in the principle applied to raw material, or material in an early stage of manufacture; and if they were not a manufactured article, and were properly within the principle of the Tariff, he would ask the Government to consider whether they ought not to allow to the manufacturers some time to dispose of their stocks?
 Mr. Aglionby  explained: He had no objection to any hon. Member becoming jocose, particularly when it was done in perfectly good humour; but they had a character to sustain with the public, as well as with themselves, and he therefore did not choose that any hon. Member should misrepresent what he (Mr. Aglionby,) had said in that House. He had been represented as if he had said that either he, or some one connected with him, or for whom he had been interested, had a great desire to have grease at a cheap rate, and that therefore he wished the hon. Member for Essex to withdraw his Motion. He (Mr. Aglionby) had never said a word to that effect; and he never recommended the hon. Member to withdraw his Motion. He said the hon. Member for Essex mistook, if he supposed that it was a one-sided question which was involved in that Motion, and that all farmers would be equally benefited if his proposition were carried. He (Mr. Aglionby) was a landowner, but he had always supported the views of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, instead of maintaining the pettifogging interests of the farmers against the public at large.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was very desirable that a definite answer should be given, because if parties chose to export their bottles within a limited period they had the power to do so. He had considered the claims of different parties, and did not think it possible to grant this request. It would lead to a similar claim from wine merchants and others having large stocks of bottles.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that there was no article of manufacture as to which predictions of ruin from reduction of duties had been so completely falsified as in the case of silk. He believed that the changes now proposed, which met with his support, would be equally beneficial to those engaged in manufactures with the previous ones. As the right hon. Gentleman had referred to the subject of a general revision of the silk duties, he could not but express his regret that that great question had not been proposed simultaneously with the present changes. The state of the silk duties was such as to cry aloud for revision. An alteration could not but be beneficial to the Revenue itself; for now all the advantage was reaped by the smuggler, to whom some of the duties offered a premium of 50 per cent., although nominally of only 15 per cent. A change in the duties could not but benefit the manufacturer. There was now the less reason why they should not be revised, because those commercial negotiations with France which were assigned by the right hon. Baronet, in 1842, as a reason for not revising them, had ceased.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, a very important question was involved in this discussion; and that was whether the House should continue to have morning sittings or not at this the busiest part of the Session. There were some occasions, however, which would only permit a choice of evils, whatever inconvenience might arise from those early sittings. However, he hoped this practice would not be continued or adopted as a precedent; the principle he did not approve of. On the present occasion, however, he did not mean to blame the Government for the course they had pursued. These measures were of importance and of a pressing nature; and if not taken at the early sitting their discussion would in all probability obstruct a great deal of other business.
 Dr. Bowring  said, there was no article of production in which the superiority of this country was more striking than leather. There was no country in which its superiority was not recognised; and being relieved from the disadvantages under which it had heretofore laboured, there could be no doubt it would acquire an unprecedented improvement.
 Mr. Bright  said, the hon. Baronet who had just sat down had spoken in a tone of lamentation; and he deplored with him the great depression into which the interest he represented had sunk, when even the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Borthwick) had the courage to attack it with so little mercy as he had shown tonight. The hon. Gentleman had, however, thrown his shield over Her Majesty's Government, and that with so much earnestness, that he trusted they would appreciate his services. He had heard of persons being visited with the tender mercies of the Attorney and Solicitor General, on the charge of bringing the Government into contempt; but in his opinion nothing out of doors could tend so much to bring the Government and the Parliament into contempt as the extraordinary arguments which had been used in recent discussions. In another place—which he supposed he was not at liberty to allude to more particularly—there was one illustrious individual who had openly and publicly taken to himself the title of the coroneted fishmonger. Another hon. Gentleman came there manifesting a great concern for butter; another
 1170 1171
 Mr. Brocklehurst  was prepared to show that silk throwing in this country had been stationary since 1824. Of his own knowledge two or three of the largest silk mills in Manchester had been turned into cotton mills, in consequence of the alteration of the duties. The right hon. Baronet
 1207
 Mr. Masterman  thought the bottle dealers had a claim on the justice of the Government for a drawback.
 Mr. Ricardo  asked whether an intimation had not been made to one or both of these companies that such a coalition would make a difference in the Report of the Board of Trade?
 Mr. Hume  had, during the past year, visited various establishments in France and Belgium, and likewise the establishment of his hon. Friend (Mr. Brocklehurst), which was most perfect. He was surprised, therefore, that his hon. Friend should express any alarm at the proposed change of duty. With respect to the south of England, the alterations that had taken place had arisen from causes which no Government could control. He thought that the present proposition was calculated to benefit the community; and, as such, he should support it. Nothing could be more advantageous to the English weaver than to give him his materials on the same terms as the weaver in other countries, and he did not fear the effect of competition. The proposed reduction of duty, so far from tending to lessen employment, must have quite an opposite effect. He thought, at the same time, that the Government ought to have removed the duty from manufactured silks altogether. By doing that they would have prevented the smuggling that now existed. It was well known that every day in the year goods that ought to be valued at 100 l. l.,
 Mr. Somes  wished to ask the noble Lord the Member for South Staffordshire, whether he intended to bring forward any Motion during the present Session, respecting the invisible shell and long range of Captain Warner?
 Mr. Borthwick  was not surprised that the hon. Member who had just sat down should congratulate the House, and especially his own side of it, upon the recent discussions; for, if anything was calculated to hasten the total abolition of the principle of protection, it was the last discussion of the question in this House. And this night, he supposed, there was to be another great stand-up fight—grease, tares, hides, lard, animal oil, hempseed, rosin, poppyseed, and seeds of all sorts or descriptions were to be prohibited to the English grower. It would be better to state fairly, and at once, that they would not permit him to purchase his seeds in the cheapest market; and that that was the kind of protection which they would afford to the agriculturist. The hon. Gentleman who moved to omit grease, told the House that he had not consulted any other Member as to his Motion. But the hon. Member forgot that the House was consulted about it yesternight, when they were told by the hon. Member for Somersetshire, who was the great champion of agriculture, that if they did not afford this opportunity for another great stand-up fight, he would then divide the House. The hon. Vice President of the Board of Trade said, that this was positively a boon to agriculture; and the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland would bear him witness that this was a great boon to the agriculturists, for without this article it would be impossible for the sheep farmer to preserve his flocks in winter, except at a greatly increased cost. And the hon. Gentleman who wishes it to be omitted, brings forward this extraordinary argument—he would not have grease admitted, because he was afraid of butter. He had no objection to grease in itself; he was too good an agriculturist not to know the value of this article, which was so much used in agriculture, and he believed for no other purpose whatever; but he was afraid of butter being imported under the disguise of grease. That might be a good argument for improving the machinery of the Custom-house; but it was none against the importation of the
 1165 Midsummer Night's Dream, l. l. l. 1166 1167 Bankes: Bankes: Cries of" 1168
 Mr. Cobden  thought he ought to divide the House on the subject, if it were only for the satisfaction of other Members.
 Mr. Cobden : I would not have said a word on this occasion had not the hon. Gentleman who just sat down undertaken to define the tenets and the principles of the free traders. He laid it down that we desired only to attain every commodity at the cheapest possible rate. We desire to obtain the greatest possible abundance of those commodities desirable for the sustenance of the people. If by cheapness the hon. Gentleman means abundance, then are we perfectly agreed. But if he puts any other construction on the word cheapness, then we are not agreed. I ask him then—if abundance is our object—what is his? I will tell him. It is his object to produce the greatest scarcity. ["No, no."] Well, you desire to produce dearness? ["No, no."] Then let us know what it is you want. Our object is abundance — as your object is scarcity. ["No, no."] Then is your object abundance? ["Yes, yes."] Yes! Then you cannot have abundance without having cheapness. In the old phraseology of your own political prayer book, abundance and cheapness are convertible terms. There is no way of making articles dear but by
 1192 s. s. s. 1193
 Mr. Monckton Milnes  could not compete with the hon. Member for Durham in the fine humour with which he had tessellated his speech; but he would say, as the hon. Member had chosen to make a peculiar allusion to him in a matter which he had the other night suggested to the House, that it was not the habit of Members on this side of the House to reprove hon. Members on the other side, when a Motion connected with the manufacturing interest was brought on, that, from the habits of their life, they had every chance of knowing something about the matter. He did not think that he was subject to any great reproof, because he had ventured to bring forward the question of willows, not too prominently, or with undue importance, simply because he happened to know something about the process, the history and the effects of their cultivation. He did not think it was impertinent in any Member of the House to bring before them matters which they might call matters of detail, but which involved the interests of thousands of their fellow-subjects. What was the question before the House at the present moment? The question was, that the Government should be allowed to introduce a certain article free of duty. Hon. Members did not object to the article itself coming; but they objected to another article coming in under its guise, the production of which gave employment to a great number of persons in the grazing counties. The question before them was simply one of fact; and he thought from what had been stated by the hon. the Vice President of the Board of Trade, that
 1172 Ward:
 Mr. Bramston  was desirous, after the discussion which had taken place, to withdraw his Motion.
 Mr. Bramston  rose, pursuant to notice, to move that the word "grease" be omitted. The question whether an article
 1162 s.
 Mr. Gibson  thought that when so much sympathy was expressed for the breeders of pigs, there ought to be some felt for the consumers of what came from pigs, and if there were many poor persons who kept pigs, it should be recollected that there were also many who did not. He should vote for the remission of the duty.
 Mr. Grimsditch  believed that the importation of thrown silk into this country was greater than the right hon. Gentleman had stated. He complained of the injury done to the trade by former changes in the duty. When the last reduction was made, he formed part of a deputation to the Board of Trade, and had then understood it to be admitted that the 1 s.
 Mr. Long  hoped the hon. Member for Cork would divide against the remission of the duty.
 Mr. Long  would then press for a division.
 Mr. Aldam  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury, a question upon a subject of great interest to this country. It appeared that the President of the United States, in addressing the Representatives in Congress respecting the conduct of the British Government, said,—
 "The slaves, when captured, instead of being returned back to their homes, are transferred to her Colonial possessions in the West Indies, and made the means of swelling the amount of their products by a system of apprenticeship for a term of years; and the officers and crew who capture the vessel receive, on the whole number of slaves, so many pounds sterling  per capita 1152
 Mr. Entwisle  said, that when he heard that the duty was to be taken off thrown silk he communicated with his constituents on the subject; and their answer was, "Give us free trade, and we care nothing about the removal of this duty." That scintillation of a "great fact" in his neighbourhood was a significant hint to him. At the same time, he could not understand how the hon. Member for Stockport should be continually in the habit of offering seats in that House to Gentlemen who were ready to support the object of the great fact; but perhaps he would hereafter be called upon to explain that matter. He (Mr. Entwisle) should vote in accordance with the answer he had received from his constituents.
 Mr. Ewart  begged to correct an error into which the Vice President of the Board of Trade had fallen with respect to butter converted into grease in order to evade the duty. He could assure the
 1173
 Mr. W. Williams  said, that foreign countries were making great strides in manufactures; and unless this country was placed upon an equality with those countries with whom they were entering into competition, he was quite convinced that distress of the most appalling character would visit almost every department of our manufactures. Place his constituents on an equality with regard to the price of provisions with the artisans of other countries, and they would not want protection.
 1208 d.
 Sir Charles Napier  wished to know whether any particular distance was specified as to the extent of the long range.
 Sir C. Napier  would ask the right hon. Baronet whether there could be any objection to let Captain Warner make a trial at his own expense, and blow up the hulk of a line-of-battle ship. They had already placed an old hulk for the  Excellent
 Sir C. D. O. J. Norreys  would feel obliged to the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department to inform him whether the Government intended during the present Session to bring in any measure respecting medical charities in Ireland; and also, whether it were intended to institute any general inquiry into the operation of the Poor Law in Ireland?
 Mr. Grogan  moved that lard be omitted. The hon. Gentleman dwelt upon the injury that would be inflicted by the introduction of Foreign lard upon the poor Irish peasant whose subsistence mainly depended upon the breeding of pigs.
 Mr. Grogan  replied. He had studiously avoided any remark which could have given rise to a personal discussion; but after the vote to which the House had already come, he should not feel justified in pressing his Motion to a division.
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that no question had been brought more frequently before Parliament than that of the silk throwsters, though they had been always told that a reduction of duty would cause the ruin of the trade; and yet they found that since the reduction of duty the proportion of Foreign thrown silk introduced into this country, in reference to raw silk, had not increased, but had rather diminished. The introduction of improvements in machinery might not make the use of Italian thrown silk so necessary as it now was, but the manufacturers still desired it for some kinds of warps. The proportion of silk thrown in this country was much larger than it was. Twenty years ago out of 1,000,000lbs. of silk there were not 80,000lbs. thrown in this country, and now more than 9–10ths of all the silk imported was thrown here. To enable the manufacturers to make certain descriptions of silk, they must be allowed to import what was to them the raw materials; but to show that there would be no great injury to our throwsters he might state, that the expense of silk throwing at Lyons was as great, if not greater, than in this country. The quantity of silk coming from China and from our possessions in the East was yearly increasing; and he believed that in giving greater facilities to the manufacturers they were not only conferring a benefit on them, but were taking the most effectual means of extending and improving the manufacture of silk in this country.
 Sir G. Clerk  referred to the former reductions of duty, under which no injury had happened, and contended that there was no cause for alarm in the total abolition of the present duty.
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that no case could be made out for the retention of the small duty upon lard. This article was acquiring additional importance from its conversion into oil, useful for application to the finest descriptions of machinery, and as that oil was produced in much greater purity in this country than as imported, it was of great importance to allow of its importation free from the 2 s.
 Sir G. Clerk  regretted that his hon. Friend had thought it necessary to object to the removal of the duty on this article, and the grounds on which he had done so. He was certain that the hon. Gentleman could not be aware of the facts of the case, or he would have known that the admission of this article was a great boon to agriculture. In the language of the Custom-house grease meant butter that had been damaged, which was unfit for human food. [Lord  Howick: 1163
 Sir G. Clerk  moved the following Resolution:—
 Resolved 
 Grease Greaves for dogs, and Tallow Greaves Hides, not tanned, tawed, curried, or in any way dressed, dry and wet —or pieces of Hides, raw or undressed, and unenumerated —Tails, Buffalo, Bull, Cow, or Ox —tanned, not otherwise dressed Lard Oil, Animal Oil —Lard Oil Hempseed Rosin Seed, Poppy Silk, thrown, not dyed Stone in Blocks, shaped or rough scalped. 
 Seeds, Beans, Kidney or French —Cole —Coriander —Rape —Tares.
 Sir G. Clerk  could state that no such intimation had ever been made. The Report, in detail, on these rival lines
 1157
 Sir G. Clerk  replied, that to the best of his belief no such suggestion had ever been made.
 Sir G. Clerk  said, he had no hesitation in giving an answer to the questions of his hon. Friend respecting the Railway Department of the Board of Trade. In answer to the first question, he could state most distinctly that no suggestion as to any negotiations between contending lines, or inducements for the Direct Northern and the Cambridge and Lincoln to unite, had been made; and no facilities were given to these railroad companies which were not given to his hon. Friend and the other promoters of the London and York Company; and with respect to the second question, as to whether the Cambridge and Lincoln and Direct Northern Companies were not invited to attend the Board of Trade, some days before the 11th of March, and that a coalition was suggested as a condition of being favourably reported on, he (Sir G. Clerk) could state that no such invitation had been given at any time. The facts of the case were simply these:—On the Saturday before the day on which these railroads were reported on in the  Gazette, 1156
 Sir G. Clerk  replied, that he had intended to have communicated to the House that his noble Friend at the head of the Board of Trade had assured him that no suggestions for a union had been made on the part of that Department to the two companies. The first time that he had heard of the circumstance was only on the Saturday previous to the publication of the Tuesday's  Gazette,
 Sir G. Grey  said, he was glad that this discussion had taken place, as he thought it would convince those who were concerned that their interests would not be prejudiced.
 Mr. Ward  said, nothing could be more delightful — nothing more successful—than the arguments of the right hon. Vice President of the Board of Trade. They on his side of the House had cheered the superfluity of his proofs that there was no possibility of butter coming in. If it was fit for food—if there was any chance of it increasing the comforts of the poor man—the right hon. Gentleman showed that he would take good care to exclude it. That was the point they cheered; and the hon. Gentleman had gone on reasoning and arguing, quite unconscious of the cause of their somewhat noisy approbation. He besought the hon. Gentleman—not as a free trader, in which capacity he knew he should not be listened to, but as connected with land, which he happened to be—to spare him in future the humiliation of such advocacy and such arguments. To argue for the monopoly of food as if England were the fee simple of the landholders, and to refuse to admit a grain of wheat or barley without their permission, why there was something grand, something noble in this; but to come forward with their paltry, nasty, dirty monopolies to insist upon butter being mixed with tar lest it should diminish the amount of their protection—this, instead of being according to the intelligence of the time, or the high spirit of the class who sought protection—instead of being like the old feudal Barons issuing from their castles and levying tolls and taxes from all foreigners—this was being nothing better than an area-sneak, the lowest creature of modern civilisation. That was the policy advocated by the agriculturists. He wished them joy of it. Any thing so fatal to the principle of protection as these dirty, petty pretensions, so wretched and miserable in their details, so impossible to go down with an intelligent
 1164
 Mr. Ward : I admired, in the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Sussex, the kindness of soul, the excellence of
 1184 versus 1185
 Sir James Graham  replied, that it was not the intention of the Government to bring forward any measure this year on the subject of medical charities, nor to institute any general inquiry respecting the Irish Poor Law.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that he was not made aware of the nature of the question which it appeared the noble Lord was about to put to him. The statement, however, of the noble Lord rather confirmed the view which had been taken by the hon. Member for Portsmouth last night. With respect to the question itself, he was not aware that any general inconvenience had arisen from the measure of last Session. He only knew this fact, that the gaols of this country had been heretofore crowded by a large number of poor debtors, from whom it was, he believed, hopeless to expect payment of the debts for which they had been incarcerated. These gaols were no longer filled by such a class of persons. Neither was he aware that the effect of the measure was to reduce to any extent the amount of credit which had been usually given to the working classes. Under these circumstances he must say that he was not at all prepared to recommend any material alterations in the Bill.
 Sir J. Tyrell  seconded the Motion.
 Sir. J. Tyrell  said, as he was one of those who were instrumental in reserving this question and other articles for a separate discussion, he would not now shrink from the part he had taken. He regretted that the hon. Member for Somersetshire was not now in his place; but he was sure the House would sympathise with the reason when they were informed that it was owing to a domestic affliction—and, therefore he trusted no Gentleman would indulge in ill-timed remarks on his absence. With regard to the question now before the House, he for one would admit, frankly and fairly, that all the ostensible—all the clap-trap arguments used by hon. Gentlemen opposite, who called themselves, but in his opinion very improperly, free traders—he would admit once for all—that these arguments were in their favour. But still he would contend that the mass of the articles reserved for separate discussion, did, upon the whole, constitute a grievance—did upon the whole diminish the amount of protection which they were entitled to enjoy on account of the burdens which they were called to sustain. He regretted as much as any man that the time of the House should be occupied with trifling discussions; and if the sense of the House could be taken upon one or two of them, such as lard or tares, he should be satisfied, though he might regret that in that case the House would be deprived of the facetiousness of hon. Gentlemen opposite, and that they would be prevented from making their happy hits. But he thought that would be better than to allow hon. Gentlemen to come forward now and make speeches which they intended to make the other night. The hon. Member (Mr. Borthwick)
 1169 d.
 Sir R. H. Inglis : A few days ago the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government answered a question which had been put to him conjointly by the hon. Member for Louth and the hon. Member for Roscommon, as to the time it was his intention to bring forward his proposed measures upon the subject of the Roman Catholic College of Maynooth, and other academical institutions in Ireland; but the right hon. Baronet did not state more upon the subject than mentioning the time at which he proposed to call the attention of the House to these subjects. I therefore request permission to ask him in what mode he proposes to deal with those important questions? — whether by an increased grant upon the Estimates for the current year, or by Bill, the effect of such Bill being to place Roman Catholic Institutions on a permanent basis, and withdrawing them altogether from the annual revision of Parliament? If it be by Bill, I wish to ask the right hon. Baronet whether it is or is not his intention to leave the Protestant institutions (for which, although, indeed, the grants were small in amount, yet, being grants, the effect was, to subject them to annual discussions in this House) in a similar condition as they are at present, or to provide for them as in the case of Maynooth, if it be proposed to provide for the Roman Catholic Institutions in Ireland. I have therefore two questions to put to the right hon. Baronets—first, whether he intends to proceed by Bill in the case of Maynooth and the Roman Catholic Institutions in Ireland? And secondly, whether
 1149
 Sir R. H. Inglis : I have no such intention as that of making such a proposition, and I have no such wish upon the subject; on the contrary, if any such proceeding be attempted, I shall give it my most strenuous opposition.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, he could not avoid taking that opportunity of calling the attention of the House to what seemed to him a matter of deep importance to the community at large. It was strange that in Acts of Parliament authorising the construction of railways, which cost so many millions of money, and the natural consequence of which was the drawing together of such a vast number of persons from the places where they might be naturally expected to receive proper religious instruction, no provision was made to supply that instruction. He thought the matter to which he alluded was well worthy the attention of the noble Lord near him, and others concerned in legislating for such undertakings, to endeavour to provide some means of supplying the spiritual wants of the vast masses of population who were thus thrown together in various places without the security of pastoral care and superintendence. For his own part, he wished to take that public opportunity of expressing his sense of the duty which was incumbent on railway directors in this respect. There was another point, too, to which he would advert briefly; and that
 1145
 Sir R. Peel : Then, Sir, I think it
 1150
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, I am sorry that my hon. Friend has thought it necessary to ask me questions with respect to the character of those measures which I shall have to propose for the consideration of the House, inasmuch as I think that it is of great advantage in such cases to confine our observations to stating generally what the intentions of Government are; however, I have no objection on the present occasion to reply to the interrogatories which the hon. Member for Oxford has felt it necessary to put to me. I certainly propose to proceed by Bill in case of Maynooth and the new academical institutions in Ireland. And if the House is prepared to accede to the proposition for an increased grant, I cannot help thinking that it would be a very great advantage to remove the subject altogether from the necessity of having annual discussions upon it in this House. Now, in reference to the hon. Member's second question, as to whether it is my intention to leave the Protestant Institutions subject to annual discussions in this House, I must say, I think it would be of very great advantage if we were to have no annual religious discussions whatsoever in this House. With respect then as to whether or not these subjects should be annually brought before the House, I think that they should be all treated upon the same general principle, and ought to be placed upon the same permanent footing. I say this without exactly knowing what the hon. Member refers to. [Sir  R. H. Inglis: Regium Donum
 Sir R. Peel  was glad that the hon. Gentleman had given him notice of his intention to ask this important question. He thought that it was to be regretted that the President of the United States of America should send a formal message to Congress on the subject of negroes, who were removed from a state of slavery to freedom, and who had been captured, at great expense to this country, without first ascertaining what was their real condition in the British Colonies. He must also say, that if the President of the United States should think fit to appoint a Commission for the purpose of going to the British West Indian Colonies, and investigating into the condition of the liberated negroes, and of examining whether they were in the state described in his message, so far from there being any objection, every facility would be afforded on the part of the British Government in assisting the Commission to carry on its inquiries, so that the Commissioners might present to their own country a true picture of the condition of the captured and liberated negroes in the English West Indian Colonies. The first passage from the message of the President read by the hon. Gentleman was,—
 "The slaves, when captured, instead of being returned to their homes, are transported to the English Colonial possessions in the West Indies, and made the means of swelling the amount of their products by a system of apprenticeship for a term of years, and that the stale of the apprentice was nearly the same as that of the slave, for he was equally denied the exercise of his free will." 1153 1154
 Sir R. Peel  replied, that since the last discussion on this matter, not a week had elapsed in which he had not received letters from parties offering to discover the means of destroying a vessel of war in a better manner and more effectually than by Captain Warner, on condition, in some instances, of rceiving a reward of 100,000 l., l., 1160
 Sir R. Peel  said, that he did not know that he had either received any letter from or sent any to Captain Warner, which he should have the slightest objection to be produced. He had sent all the letters which he had received on this subject to the Board of Ordnance, and he believed that some had been mislaid there. It was probable that this was the case with respect to them.
 Sir R. Peel  could not have the slightest objection to their production.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that Her Majesty's Government had shown no alacrity in yielding to the demands on the part of the holders of sugar in favour of the stocks on hand; and it was, in fact, rather the House of Commons than the Government that had yielded. He hoped, however, that the House of Commons would not adopt the same course with respect to leather. If they applied the principle to leather in this case, they had better at once proclaim the principle that Parliament could not deal with any Customs article without allowing compensation for the stocks on hand. There was a very formidable interest opposed to this proposition; and on that day he had the satisfaction of meeting a most respectable deputation from Liverpool on the subject. The deputation showed him specimens of English and Foreign tanned leather; and an inspection of those specimens at once convinced him that the English manufacturer had nothing whatever to dread from the competition of the Foreign manufacturer; for anything more superior than the English over the Foreign tanned leather he had never seen. Of all the trades which had been benefited by the removal of the duties on raw materials, none had derived greater advantage from the change than the leather manufacture. In 1843 and 1844, as compared with 1841 and 1842, the tanning trade received an advantage to the amount of 100,000 l.
 Sir R. Peel : I regret that so much warmth has been mixed up with this discussion, and I think that much injustice has been done to my hon. Friend who provoked, or rather originated, this debate. Under what circumstances did this discussion arise? It was half-past one o'clock before we entered upon the articles of the Tariff, and it could not be expected at that late hour of the night, that we should make much progress. Indeed, I cannot help thinking that we should not have been allowed so quietly to commence the Tariff at all, and certainly not to get so far forward in it, but for the low place which happens to be occupied by cotton. Cotton happens to be placed under the letter W, and, consequently, to my great satisfaction, we were permitted at once to go into Committee and to proceed quite as fast as you, Sir, could read the articles—and indeed, in many cases, much faster, for even your experience had not familiarised you with all the difficult words you there met with. As we approached towards wool the greater was the alacrity to proceed; but when the article "grease" came under consideration, my hon. Friends were naturally desirous to discuss the propriety of the remission. It was not likely that they would acquiesce in the vote without discussion, and I thought it quite reasonable that that and similar articles should be postponed. But I am sure there was no disposition shown on their part to stickle factiously at each article. They were naturally desirous to have a discussion upon all articles of the same character; and I think they pursued quite the wisest course in what they have
 1196
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that in order to remove any apprehension as to the effect of reducing the duty on tares, he would just state that when the duty on tares was 10 s. s. 1210
 Sir R. Peel : I deeply regret that the inhabitants of any district of this country, who have enjoyed comparative prosperity, should be either suddenly or gradually reduced to depression—that a branch of industry which had employed many persons should cease to be productive, and that those who were employed in that branch of industry should cease to derive subsistence from it. But my hon. Friend should bear in mind what he had said, and with perfect truth, that the reason why we lost our manufactures in Dorsetshire is because steam-power has been introduced, and the steam engine produces the fabric at a less cost than the water power. And, therefore, it is not from any want of industry or exertion that our trade is diminished, but because in Manchester and other great towns capital is more abundant, and mechanical skill more perfect. But that will be the case whether we reduce the duty or not. That competition will continue, and whatever we may do, my hon. Friend's constituency will still have this formidable competition opposed to them. But if, by reducing the duties on thrown silk, we stimulate manufactures generally, and enable the people of Manchester, where capital and skill abound, to compete with foreigners, do not let us throw away these advantages on account of this partial failure, which is not attributable to the introduction of the foreign article, but to the competition with larger capital and greater skill. But my hon. Friend says, that trade has been languishing in Dorsetshire since the last reduction of the duty. Now, it is impossible to decide on the policy of any commercial measure on account of its operation in any limited district of the country. You can only judge of it by a comprehensive view of the imports and exports of the general trade. In the year 1844, after the reduction of duty made in 1842, the quantity of raw silk brought into this country to be thrown, and duty paid, was not less than 4,303,000 lbs. Now, there never was so large a quantity of silk brought into this country for the purpose of providing employment for manufacturers here since the year 1836, a year of great and inconsiderate speculation, which had the effect of depressing the markets for some time afterwards. If particular districts in
 1205 1206
 Viscount Howick  concurred in the views expressed by the right hon. Baronet. He thought a special case had been made out with respect to sugar, which did not apply to leather, and that there was no ground whatever for asking for a drawback in this instance. He had never heard a case for
 1179 1180
 Viscount Howick  said, that was no answer to his question. He had asked whether the suggestion of the propriety of such union had, not, in the first place, been made by the Board of Trade?
 Viscount Howick  only wished to ask further, as they had not got an answer to an important part of the questions, as to whether the negotiations for a union had not been suggested by the Board of Trade.
 Lord Ingestre  had some conversation with the Clerk of the Ordnance on the subject a few days ago respecting them, more particularly the letter of the date of May 25, 1842, and he had been informed that they had been found.
 Lord Ingestre  replied, that he had within the last few days received a letter from Captain Warner, which, with the permission of the House, he would read:—
 Lord Ingestre  replied that it would be seen from the challenge that it was stated at five miles.
 Viscount Jocelyn  said, that, on coming into office, he found the draft of a despatch to the Governor-General in Council, strongly recommending to consideration
 1161
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  did not exactly see how the suggestion of his hon. Friend who had just sat down—though he agreed that great inconvenience had arisen from the present arrangement — could be carried out. He did trust, however, that the Committee would not consider the decisions of the Board of Trade final; though an opinion, he believed, had gone abroad, amounting almost to a belief, that their decisions were to be regarded in that light. He was ready to concede to the Board of Trade every credit for the manner in which they had conducted the business which had been intrusted to them; but, not-withstanding, he should be very sorry to have it assumed that their Reports were final decisions, when they were, in fact, merely preliminary inquiries entered into with the view of assisting the Committees; and he did hope that the Committees appointed by that House would be sensible that with themselves still rested the responsibility of sifting the merits of every scheme brought before them; and that they would express their opinions freely and independently, both as to the merits of the schemes, and of the suggestions of the Board of Trade. With regard to limiting the charges on railways, he must admit that that part of the question was full of difficulties; but that was no reason for abandoning all attempts to overcome it. Originally he believed that Parliament had intended to have applied some limitation of the description proposed; and though it had failed hitherto, he did not know but that the principle would be
 1236
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, the hon. Member must be aware that the lighting of the House was not a matter which belonged to his Department, or was under his control, but of the Officer of the House; and the arrangement to which the hon. Member had referred had been made by that person. With regard to any experiments which had been made with the view of lighting the New Houses of Parliament, they had been made under his sanction by Dr. Reid. He believed that the House would agree that it would be extremely advantageous that the lighting and the ventilation should be under the management of one individual, considerable inconvenience having arisen already from having two persons engaged in those matters. The experiments which had been made had been purely with a view to the lighting of the New Houses of Parliament, and not with a view to any alteration in the present House. Those experiments would be continued; and if the hon. Gentleman, at some future period of the Session, should feel anxious to have any detail or Report upon the subject, such information as he (Lord Lincoln) could supply should certainly be laid upon the Table of the House; but at present there were no such documents as the hon. Gentleman had moved for.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, it was not his intention to go at any length into the various topics which the hon. Member had touched upon in the present discussion. He had mentioned a great variety of facts, and had called their attention to a vast variety of considerations; few of which
 1225 1226 1227 1228
 Mr. Warburton  said, that perceiving the then state of the House, he was not disposed to address it at any length in seconding the Resolutions of his hon. Friend. He had chiefly been induced to do so in consequence of having looked over some of the Reports of the Board of Trade on certain railway speculations. Formerly he was much disposed to consider that it would be most for the public interest to let them look to a fair competition between parties wishing to establish railways; but since he had read the Reports from the Railway Department of the Board of Trade, he could not conceal from himself that which could not but give satisfaction to the established railway companies. It was notorious that it was a matter of general satisfaction to the old railway companies, that these Reports were founded on what were termed Conservative principles, and it was well known that this expression was current among the directors and proprietors of the old railroads. In the case of the London and York line they had an illustration of what he had alluded to. That was a line which had received the support of nearly all the landed proprietors along it, and its projectors were men of undoubted capital; and the Board of Trade, to his perfect horror, had given an opinion and divided upon a question as to whether or not capitalists were going to lay out their money profitably. Was anything of the kind ever heard of before? Did they ever interpose in cases of turnpike roads when started against each other? For instance, there were turnpike roads on each bank of the Avon for ten miles, between Bath and Bristol; but no one ever objected, before, gentlemen having invested their capital in forming a turnpike road on one side, that others had come forward to make a road parallel to it on the opposite side of the river, and that on the ground that they were making an unprofitable investment of capital. Then who were the Members of this Department of the Board of Trade? At the head of it was a noble Lord holding office under the
 1224
 Mr. Morrison  rose to move the Resolutions respecting Railways, of which he had given notice. No one, he observed, who had at all attended to what was at present passing upon this subject, both within and without the House, could fail of being satisfied that the railway system had taken deep root in this country, with a probability at no distant period of
 1213 1214 d. d. d. s. d., d. d. 1215 l. l. l. d. s. 1216 d., d., d. d., d., d. d., d. d., 1217 d. 1218 1219 1220 l., l., l. 1221 1222 
 1. "That it is the duty of Parliament, in giving its sanction to the establishment of new Railways, to render them the means of affording to the public the best and safest communication, and the greatest possible amount of accommodation at the lowest possible rates: 2. "That the clauses heretofore introduced into Railway Bills to limit the amount of tolls to be demanded for the use of the Railway, having proved practically inoperative, it is expedient to make more effectual provision against the undue enhancement of the cost of travelling and transportation in every future Railway Bill, by fixing the highest rates which the Railway Company shall be allowed to charge for the conveyance of passengers and goods: "3. That for this purpose every Committee on a Railway Bill, introduced in the present or any future Session of Parliament, shall report a Table of Fees and Charges, the lowest which they shall judge to be consistent, under the circumstances of each case, with a fair and reasonable return for the capital to be invested: "4. And that every Committee to which two or more competing projects for new Railways may be referred, shall require the promoters of each to put in statements as to the
 1223
 Mr. J. E. Denison  said, that the right hon. Baronet in an early part of the Session had stated that the Reports of the Board of Trade were by no means intended to be final. He was of opinion that when a Report was issued by the Board, the grounds upon which it was founded should be discussed in that House before such Report was sent to the Committees, as a guide to them in the decision they should come to.
 Mr. Dennistoun,  wished to know whether it was the intention of the Government to support a measure for preventing burial in towns. He knew that many parties who were anxious to establish cemeteries, had been deterred from doing so in consequence of the uncertainty as to the course which the Government intended to take. He begged to ask the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) whether he thought, by any measure which the Government might support, it would be permitted to establish a cemetary within the Parliamentary boundaries of Glasgow?
 Mr. Parker  had no doubt that every one was desirous, or that it was the duty of the House to see that the public should be carried at as low a rate as possible upon railways: but if the House laid down any plan for limiting the charges, founded upon the supposition that, acting upon that plan, every railway company would receive a fair and just remuneration for their enterprise, and the outlay of their capital, it might commit a grievous injustice. Had the House not also a corresponding duty to perform on the part of the companies? Should not the House in such a case guarantee to the companies an amount of remuneration somewhat approaching that which their enterprise merited?
 Mr. Hume  rose to move for a Copy of any Report of Experiments for Lighting the House of Commons in the last and present year; with a Copy of Plan for altering the existing Lights, and an estimate of the expense of the same. He wished to
 1238
 Sir G. Grey  was of opinion that the best plan that could be adopted was that which the House had acted upon lately—viz., to establish as competent a tribunal as possible for the examination of the details of a Bill, and to discourage as much as possible any appeal from that tribunal to that House; but there were certain principles which must come before Committees in the course of the Session, in the consideration of Railway Bills, which, though it was difficult to determine how they should be disposed of, were, he thought, worthy of the consideration of the House. It would be extremely unadvisable, and it would be a blot in our railway legislation, if there were to be a great want of uniformity in the Bills and in the decisions of the Committees. Let them look at some of the principles which the Committees would have to decide upon. First, there was that great and important principle which had occupied a prominent place in the Reports of the Board of Trade—the principle of "competition," to which also the right hon. Gentleman had referred. Were the Railway Committees to act upon the principle that competition was undesirable, or were they to trust to competition for the purpose of securing to the public the benefits which might be supposed to arise from it? Then, again, there was the subject of "gradients," which had been also referred to by the right hon. Baronet. Let the House look at the Report of the Board of Trade upon the West Yorkshire Railway. They entered there very fully into the subject, and took exactly an opposite view to that which the right hon. Baronet had taken of it. They justified their preference of a line which had worse gradients than another that was before them, by saying that the improved power of locomotive engines now was such, that it was not worth the while of Companies to incur a great expense in looking for good gradients and good curves. That Report would go before a Committee of five Gentlemen, and would naturally have a great influence with them. These were subjects which he thought it was desirable that the House should determine on. With reference to the principle which had been in-
 1237
 Sir James Graham  was not aware of the precise nature of the provisions of the Bill which his hon. Friend the Member for Lymington (Mr. Mackinnon) intended to introduce. He had, however, already stated to the House that, after having given the subject the most anxious consideration, he was not prepared to introduce any measure to prevent the practice of interment in cities. With respect to the question which had been put by the hon. Gentleman as to whether it would be permitted to bury within the Parliamentary boundaries of the City of Glasgow, he could only say that, if he recollected rightly, those boundaries included the whole of the suburban grounds around Glasgow; and to prohibit the erection of cemeteries within such boundaries appeared to him to be most unreasonable.
 Sir R. Peel  said, this was a subject which the more it was considered was seen
 1231 s. s. d., 1232 l. l. 1233 "It is true that the railway between Liverpool and Manchester has answered; but the circumstances of that railway are so peculiar, that it is no criterion of the probable success of other railways." l.; 1234 1235
 Viscount Howick  said, it was evident that if the noble Lord was not prepared to concur in the adoption of these Resolutions, he agreed substantially with the hon. Member for Inverness as to the importance of the objects he sought to accomplish. If it were really believed that these Resolutions would not effect those objects, at least to a considerable extent, it would be proper to withdraw them; but he hoped, that if they were withdrawn, the Government would give the subject their earliest consideration, and would, before the Railway Bills of the present Session went into Committee, lay down authoritatively some general rules for the guidance of the Committees. He considered that the necessity for such general rules was clearly demonstrable. The noble Lord concurred with his hon. Friend in the opinion that the existing rules as to the maximum of tolls were altogether nugatory, and he admitted also that the rate of charge ought to be limited. The noble Lord doubted, however — and he agreed with the noble Lord on that point—whether such limitation would accomplish all that was desired. During the last few years they had gained considerable experience as to the working of railways, and they knew that both passengers and goods could be conveyed at infinitely lower charges than had hitherto been adopted by any companies. They knew, also, that without the interference of Parliament, railway companies would not afford the public the benefit of that cheapness with which locomotion could be effected; for, though a reduction of fares was always followed by a great increase in the number of passengers, and a proportionate reduction of the expenses of conveyance, it often happened that such a step, at least in the first instance, produced some small diminution in the receipts of companies; and the consequence was, that directors and general meetings of proprietors did not regard with much favour propositions for an extensive reduction of fares. The great railway lines had now been in operation for many years; and some of the companies — the Great Western and the London and Birmingham, for instance—charged fares altogether unreasonable, considering the circumstances in which they were placed. Judging from past experience,
 1229 1230
 Lord Duncan  wished to repeat a question which he had asked of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department before Easter, and to which he had on that occasion received an unsatisfactory answer, on the subject of the Bill which had been passed last Session for the Abolition of Imprisonment for Small Debts. He would again call the attention of the right hon. Baronet to the facilities which the 57th Clause of that Bill afforded to fraudulent persons owing less than 20 l. ex post facto
 Mr. Corry  moved (at a few minutes before five o'clock) the Order of the Day that the House should resolve itself into a Committee of Supply.
 Mr. Corry  proceeded to move the Navy Estimates, during the absence of Sir C. Napier, who had given notice that he should, on Mr. Speaker leaving the Chair, move an Address to Her Majesty, praying for a Commission to Inquire into the State of the Navy. The hon. Gentleman said,
 1241
 The Chairman : The House is now in a Committee of the whole House, and cannot entertain the Motion of the hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Corry : I did not move the Committee until five o'clock.
 Mr. Corry : He thought that, in making his statement, the best course he could pursue would be to avoid as much as possible all questions of minute detail, and to confine himself to the principal causes of increase and decrease under the several heads of expenditure. With respect to the first of those heads, he deemed it unnecessary to enter at length on any explanation as to the reasons which induced Her Majesty's Government to propose an increase of 4,000 men to the number voted in the last Navy Estimates; because the reasons for that increase had already been explained by the right hon. Baronet at the
 1242 l., l. l. l., 1243 l. l., l., l. l. l. l. l. 1244 l. l., l. l. l. l., 1245 l., l., l. l., l., l. l., l. l. l. l. 1246 l. l. for new l., l., l. l. l. l. l., l. 1247 l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. 1248 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1249 l. l. l. l. l. 
 
 £35,000 under Nos. 6 and 8 for the wages of additional artificers. 
 47,000 for timber for steam vessels building at Deptford. 
 121,000 for the purchase of machinery and iron vessels—and 
 180,000 for steam basins, and the purchase of land for workshops, &c. 
 Total £383,000 which left an increase on account of Naval Services generally of only 31,000 l. l.
 Captain Berkeley  observed that, as to one of the steamers, he understood that the guns had been obliged to be made for the vessel, and not the vessel for the guns. That was a very great mistake in the construction. On account of the stern, guns of a particular construction were obliged to be put into the vessel; therefore she was only calculated to carry certain guns, if she could find them. He might say, however, from his own observation of the management and appearance of steam vessels, that Great Britain was as much superior to any other nation in steam vessels as she was in sailing vessels. Steam as yet was only in its infancy. He had read with some interest the pamphlet which had caused so much sensation, written by the Prince de Joinville, a man holding so high a station in the Navy of France; and having read it, he was extremely glad to hear what had fallen from the gallant Officer and the Secretary to the Admiralty as to the steam navy. He was obliged to his gallant Friends for bringing forward this question, because he thought it a question of vital importance. He did not attribute to the Prince de Joinvilie that enmity towards England which was generally attributed to him for writing that pamphlet. With quite as much reason might it be said that the House wished for war with France, because they were endeavouring to point out the best means for carrying
 1268 1269
 Admiral Bowles  said, in the trial of the qualities of the  Albion Queen,
 Captain Rous  said, the right hon. and gallant Admiral the Member for Ripon had accused him of finding fault with everything which emanated from the Admiralty; but he could appeal to his friends if on all occasions it did not give him much more pleasure to approve. The right hon. Admiral had compared the  Inconstant Inconstant 1270 l. l. l. 1271 Navy List "Pacem orare manu, præfigere puppibus arma." 1272 Queen, 1273 esprit de corps 1274 G. Cockburn: Navy List
 Mr. Sydney Herbert  wished to say a few words in reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Montrose. The hon. Member complained that no explanation had been given as to the reason why an increase was proposed in the Estimate for the Navy. Why, on proposing the continuance of the Income Tax, the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury distinctly explained the grounds of the proposals made by the Government. He spoke of the impossibility of reducing the Army, of the necessity of increasing
 1280 1281
 Captain Carnegie  said, that as the commander of one of the much maligned vessels that had been alluded to in course of the debate, he could not refrain from saying that she was the pride of our own service, and the envy of foreigners. As compliments seemed to be the order of the day, he could not refrain from adding, that the conduct of the Admiralty Board in sending one of their own body to witness the experiments and judge for himself, had given great confidence and satisfaction to the commanders of the vessels.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the right hon. Gentleman appeared surprised that his noble Friend should have taken the present opportunity of making certain observations upon the question of the Right of Search. But the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Admiralty, in proposing those Estimates, had said, very properly and becomingly as regarded the situation he held, that one of the reasons why he asked for an augmented naval force was,
 1309 1310 s. 1311 1312 1313 1314 1315
 Mr. Hindley  entered his protest against the plan of increasing our military and naval force, as the best means of preserving peace. He had many petitions upon the subject, and it was becoming a serious question amongst the people of this country.
 Mr. Divett  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet whether his attention had been called to a clause in a Private Bill affecting the West of England, which would have the effect of re-enacting, in certain cases, the penalty of imprisonment for debts under 20 l.
 Colonel Rawdon  wished to know whether it was the intention of the Government to introduce a measure for abolishing in Ireland also imprisoment for debts under 20 l.
 Mr. Hume  said, although the observations made in the course of this discussion would no doubt be productive of good, as such suggestions very often were, yet the discussion itself appeared to him to be irregular. The real question before the House was what should be the number of men employed in our Naval Service, and what the expense of that service? When the right hon. Baronet brought forward his Budget, he stated, that he would reserve any further observations which it might be necessary to make on this subject until the Estimates came under discussion. Under these circumstances, he had expected that the right hon. Baronet would then be prepared to state why there should be such an augmentation of the naval force at the present time, especially after the House had been informed in the Speech of Her Majesty that friendly relations existed with France and other countries. When it was proposed to increase the Navy, the Army, or the Ordnance, in former years, they were told that the object was to enable the Government to carry on this or that enterprise, or to prepare for the forces of France, Russia, or some other Power. For what purpose, he would be glad to know, was the present addition to be made? What was
 1278 1279 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  denied that the right hon. Baronet had given any explanation of the necessity for further expenditure in this department. It was absurd to send ships of war to all quarters where our
 1282
 Mr. Hume , though the matter under consideration was of considerable importance, would not, considering the circumstances, give the House the trouble of dividing. Amongst the causes of regret which existed with reference to the Naval service, he could not help saying that one of the most prominent of these causes was the absence of any regulation with respect to promotions; and he earnestly hoped that some rules on that subject would be laid down. It was well known in the service and throughout the country that
 1288 ad libitum,
 Mr. Wakley  said, that he should now move that the Chairman report progress and ask leave to sit again; and he did so for the purpose of reminding Her Majesty's Government of what had taken place in this House before Easter, in reference to a question he then brought forward. He begged to remind the right hon. Baronet, Her Majesty's Secretary of State for the Home Department, of what he (Mr. Wakley) had said upon that occasion in reference to the Post Office affair. He then said that his constituents had forwarded him a petition, requesting him to present it to this House, in reference to the opening of the letters of his hon. Colleague; and at the same time expressing the great anxiety they fell for a full explanation upon the subject, not having yet had any thing like a satisfactory explanation. When he presented that petition he stated that it was not his wish to put Her Majesty's Government to any inconvenience; but he felt coerced to adopt the course he had taken, his constituents having declared that they would not be satisfied until they had been assured whether or not any warrant had ever been issued authorising the opening of certain letters already mentioned. However, he did forego his right then to make the Motion of which he had given notice, in order not to inconvenience the Government. He now begged to say that he was compelled to make the Motion, and should take the sense of the House upon it, for he felt it a duty incumbent upon him to do so; and this course he had intimated to the right hon. Baronet his intention to adopt, before Easter. Now, he had come down to the House to-day for that purpose, and remained there three quarters of an hour, and then absented himself for about five or six minutes, and yet, to his surprise, he found on his return, though it was not then five o'clock, that the House had got into Committee; and this certainly appeared to him to be rather sharp practice. The usual practice was to discuss grievances before going into Committee of Supply. He would be sorry that any course should be adopted by this House that would be likely to create any excitement out of doors; but he could not help saying that it was not quite fair to have acted towards him in this way alter what he said in reference to this subject before Easter.
 Mr. Wakley  rose amidst loud cries of "Order, order; Chair, chair," from all parts of the House. The hon. Gentleman exclaimed with considerable animation, I hope that it will be understood that this (the Opposition) side of the House approves of my not going on with my Motion ["Order, order"].
 Mr. Wakley  moved that the Chairman do report progress [ Cries of
 Mr. Wakley , who had just entered the House and had a Motion on the Paper for the production of warrants issued for the opening of Mr. T. Duncombe's letters, amid cries of "Order!" appealed to the Chair, whether, seeing that he had been there ready with his Motion ever since the Speaker took the Chair, and had only left the House three minutes ago, supposing they would not go into public business till five o'clock, he ought not to be permitted to bring forward his Motion, a Motion of much public interest ["Order"].
 Mr. W. Williams  thought sufficient had been stated that evening, and that too by men of the highest practical experience, to warrant an inquiry into the present state of the Navy. He had heard complaints made publicly of the unfair mode of advertising the contracts of the Navy. He had been informed of that. [ Cries of G. Cockburn: 1285 l.; l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1286 l. l. l. l.
 Sir Charles Napier  observed that the right hon. and gallant Officer opposite (Sir G. Cockburn) had stated that he (Sir C. Napier) had imputed bad motives to the Board of Admiralty. He utterly denied having done so. He had imputed no bad motives either to the present or to any former Board. Neither had he, as the right hon. and gallant Officer had insinuated, taken credit to himself as being the only person present who knew anything of the subject. He utterly disclaimed having entertained for a moment any such idea. But the right hon. and gallant Officer had not replied to the points which he had put to him. He had taken no notice of the list of ships pulled to pieces which he (Sir C. Napier) had read to the House. The right hon. and gallant Officer might certainly have stated that these ships were not pulled to pieces by the gallant Officer's orders. That would have been quite true; but what he wished was to prevent such an occurrence taking place again. It was most unfortunate for the Navy to be ruled by a political body. The Lords of the Admiralty were selected, not on account of capability to fill their important situations, but on the score of family influence and political partisanship. Was it to be said that in the list of 700 captains of the Navy none were to be found capable of acting as Lords of the Admiralty but those who had seats in this House? He was quite opposed to the whole structure of the Board. He had animadverted, too, upon the 90-gun ships, the 98-gun ships, and generally upon the small three-deckers.
 1287 Penelope Penelope Queen; Vanguard,
 Sir Charles Napier  said, if his hon. Friend had reason to complain, he thought he had still more so. He had only left the House to secure a Paper, and although he ran back as fast as he could, he found the Speaker had left the Chair. Nobody regretted more than he could the retirement of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War from the office of Secretary to the Admiralty. He believed it was very generally admitted that no man had performed the duties better than he did. The right hon. Gentleman displayed great zeal and ability while he held that office; and he thought he had fully earned his promotion. If anything could remove the regret which he entertained of losing the right hon. Gentleman, it was the pleasure of seeing installed into the office the present new Secretary to the Admiralty, who had just made a most able and excellent statement. He did not believe the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government could have selected a more competent or efficient person to fill that office. He was extremely happy to find from the statement of that right hon. Gentleman that they were going to have an experimental squadron, and he hoped when
 1252 1253 Navy List, Queen, Royal Frederick, Queen. Boscawen. Union, l. Station, Tigris, Jason, Severn, Porcupine, Pheasant, Redwing, Seascout, Vindictive, 1254 Royal Albert, Royal Albert Queen. Royal Frederick, Victoria, Prince of Wales, Royal Sovereign, Marlborough, Windsor Castle, Princess Royal, Aboukir, Ex-mouth, Hannibal, St. Jean D'Acre, Algiers, Mars, Majestic, Colossus, Lion, Madras, Brunswick, Sanspareil. Royal Albert Queen, Vanguard 1255 Queen Agamemnon Irresistible, Cressy, Constance, Raleigh, Severn, Leander, Shannon, Liffey, Arethusa, Active, Sybille, Thetis, Chesapeake, Alarm, Creole, Malacca, Niobe, Coquette, Calypso, Challenger, Arab, Zebra, Goshawk, Kingfisher, Camilla, Atalanta, Liberty, Mariner, Martin, Squirrel, Britomart, Retribution, Gladiator, Sampson, Firebrand, Vulture, Cyclops, Penelope, Terrible, 1256 Retribution Terrible Sampson 1257 Firebrand, Vulcan Cyclops Gorgon l., 
 
 STEAM SHIPS. 
 Name. Guns. Horse power. Tonnage. Cost. 
 £ 
 Gorgon 8 320 1,111 28,010 
 Driver 8 280 1,057 24,682 
 Styx 8 280 1,057 22,977 
 Vixen 8 280 1,054 21,474 
 Geyser 8 280 1,054 22,553 
 Growler 8 280 1,059 22,251 
 Devastation 8 400 1,058 21,865 
 Thunderbolt 8 300 1,055 24,655 
 Cormorant 8 300 1,057 26,076 
 Spiteful 6 280 1,054 23,054 
 Virago 8 300 1,059 23,034 
 Eclair 8 286 1,059 No return. 
 Rattler 4 200 888 ditto. 
 Hydra 4 220 818 15,357 
 Vesuvius 8 280 970 20,980 
 Stromboli 8 280 967 22,372 
 Dee 3 200 704 16,523 
 Phœnix 4 220 809 20,205 
 Medea 4 220 835 19,874 
 Black Eagle 3 260 495 10,703 
 Flamer 3 260 496 12,743 
 Pluto 3 100 495 10,703 
 Firefly 3 140 550 14,374 
 Rhadamanthus 4 220 813 17,943 
 Salamander 0 220 818 19,691 1258 
 
 Name. Guns. Horse power. Tonnage. Cost. 
 £ 
 Spitfire 0 140 553 15,769 
 Blazer 3 120 527 12,967 
 Tartarus 0 136 523 11,899 
 Hermes 3 220 716 16,252 
 Alecto 5 200,39 800 13,471 
 Prometheus 5 200,39 796 16,137 
 Lizard 0 100,40 283 7,180 
 Ardent 5 200,41 801 14,631 
 Megara 5 160,37 717 16,382 
 Dasher 0 100,37 260 6,051 
 Widgeon 0 90,37 164 4,257 
 Merlin 0 312,38 889 18,024 
 Medusa 0 312,39 889 18,252 
 Acheron 0 170,38 722 14,083 
 Hecla 4 240,39 817 16,219 
 Hecate 5 240,39 817 15,279 
 Volcano 4 140 720 16,978 
 Polyphemus 5 200 801 13,739 
 Sydenham 3 232 597 26,930 
 Albert 0 70 457 No return. 
 Wilberforce 0 70 457 No return. 
 Soudan 0 35 249 No return. 
 Bee 0 10 42 1,095 
 
 Tons. 
 Firebrand 1,190 
 Vulture 1,191 
 Eclair 1,059 
 Gladiator 1,210 
 Sampson 1,299 
 Retribution 1,641 
 Scourge 1,124 
 Terrible 1,840 
 Penelope — 
 
 FRIGATES. 
 Name. Guns. Horse power. Tons. 
 Dragon 8 560 1,270 
 Avenger 10 650 1,444 
 Centaur 8 540 1,270 
 Amphion 36 800 1,284 
 Odin — 550 — 
 Vulcan 8 556 1,400 
 
 SLOOPS. 
 Name. Guns. Horse power. Tons. 
 Sphynx 6 500 1,056 
 Bulldog 6 420 1,124 
 Fury 6 515 1,124 
 Inflexible 6 350 1,124 
 Harpy 3 200 345 
 Torch 3 150 345 
 Spitfire 3 140 485 
 Trident 4 350 850 
 Myrmidon 3 150 370 
 Grappler 3 220 559 
 
 STEAM VESSELS ORDERED. 
 Name. Guns. Horse power. Tons. 
 Hound 0 0 358 
 Niger 0 0 0 
 Dart 3 0 319 
 Fury 6 515 1,124 
 Dauntless 28 520 1,453 
 Steam Frigate 46 300 1,861 
 Encounter 8 320 895 
 Conflict No drawings. 
 Desperate 
 2 Iron steam frigates. 
 2 Iron steam sloops. 1259 Centaur Dragon Avenger Vulcan 1260
 Sir G. Cockburn  could assure the hon. and gallant Commodore that he took every thing he said in good part; but he could have wished that the hon. and gallant Gentleman had not imputed bad motives for everything he disapproved of. [Sir  C. Napier: Terrible, Retribution, Janus, Porcupine, Terrible 1261 Retribution, C. Napier; Penelope. Penelope, 1262 C. Napier: Penelope Penelope Tortoise, Tortoise, Penelope. Penelope, "That the  Penelope Cyclops, Prometheus, Vulcan, Hydra, Hecate, Penelope 1263 1264 Inconstant Agamemnon, Inconstant Penelope Guillaume Tell, ne plus ultra Guillaume Tell Centaur, Centaur 1265 Espiégle Flying Fish. Espiégle 1266 Queen Queen Vanguard. Queen Albion, St. Vincent, Caledonia, Albion Queen, Queen's 1267 St. Vincent, Trafalgar, Albion Rodney, Vanguard, Superb, Canopus Superb
 Captain Pechell  was quite sure that the gallant Member for Westminster had no intention to reflect upon the zeal and ability of the gallant Admiral. He knew that the gallant Officer acted under the orders of the Admiralty, and that he acted as he thought was most discreet. No one had found fault with the tests which had been applied to the ships; they complained that the trials had not been sufficient, and that the Admiralty had gone on building vessel after vessel without being satisfied that they had obtained a proper model. When the gallant Admiral was appointed to command the squadron, he was satisfied that, at all events, they would have an honest and a fair Report; and he was perfectly certain that no officer could have done more, in the time, than the gallant Admiral, to bring out either the good or the bad qualities of the ships. He was not one of those who had ever disparaged the Navy; but when he sat on the other (the Ministerial) side of the House, he had heard attacks upon the service from many Officers who now sat opposite and in the
 1275 Rattler, 1276 1277
 Sir J. Graham  said that in his opinion it would be better to wait the result of the experiment made in England, before any final decision was taken for the extension of the measure to Ireland.
 Sir J. Graham  said that any concurrence he might have given to such a clause could only have been the result of an oversight; and it should be his duty hereafter to oppose it.
 Sir J. Graham  was sorry to hear that in answering the question of the noble Lord upon a former occasion, he should have said anything unsatisfactory to the noble Lord. He wished to inform the noble Lord that he adhered to the resolution he had formerly expressed upon that subject. From all the inquiries he had made, he had no reason to think that, upon the whole, the abolition of imprisonment for debts under 20 l. 1240
 Sir Robert Peel  hoped that the hon.
 1251 Wakley;
 Sir R. Peel : I shall first address myself to the observations of the hon. and gallant Commodore, the Member for Marylebone. I certainly regret that he should have been prevented by absence from the House from making his Motion in the manner he wished. He has had, however, an opportunity of making his speech; and I cannot think that the result would have been very different if he had had an opportunity of making his Motion in the House, instead of only a speech in the Committee. The noble Lord says he concurs with the gallant Officer in the opinion that science ought to be called in aid of practical experience, with respect to naval improvements. I entirely agree in that sentiment; but the question here is, what shall be the presiding authority to call in the aid of science for the assistance of practical experience? The gallant Officer proposes a Committee; but I must say I think the Board of Admiralty is the
 1301 1302 C. Napier; 1303 1304 1305 1306 1307 1308
 Lord Ingestre  regretted that the explanation of the right hon. the Secretary at War had not been satisfactory to the hon. Gentleman. His hon. and gallant Friend had alluded to the retiring allowance for old Naval Officers. He knew that that allowance was looked upon as a great boon by the service, and that it would tend materially to promote its efficiency. He considered the thanks of the country were due to the present Board of Admiralty for the way in which they had administered the affairs of the Navy, which were in a much more efficient condition now than it was when hon. Gentlemen opposite quitted the seats of Government. The trial cruises now encouraged were doing very great good, and he was glad to see the fair and equitable basis on which they were arranged. The country would soon begin to reap great advantages from this system. With respect to the question of shipbuilding, it was a matter of regret to him that the School of Naval Architecture had ever been given up — for there men got an elaborate and adequate education in that most necessary science, and at an expense too which the country never grudged. It was a painful fact that the build of the vessels of other nations was so far superior to our own. None of our vessels were equal in construction to the  Tonnerre Canopus, l. l.; l.; 1283 l. l. Gorgon, Penelope. 1284
 Viscount Palmerston : I could wish, Sir, before this Vote is disposed of, to make one or two observations on a very important matter to which my hon. and gallant Friend near me has already adverted. It is a subject at all times most interesting, and of vital importance to the country; but it is of special interest and importance at the present moment. With, out adverting in any detail, either to the events which have happened in the course of the year, or to those which may happen at no distant period, I think that enough has taken place with regard to our relations with Foreign Powers, to show that it is expedient that this country should turn its attention to its naval means of defence, and should place those means in a state of perfect efficiency—meaning by that, efficiency with reference to a state of peace. When this Government came into power, they flattered themselves that by a system of what they called conciliation, but what I thought excessive and undue acquiescence in the wishes and demands of Foreign Powers, they would be able to maintain such a state of friendly relations with all Foreign Governments as would enable them greatly to reduce the naval and military establishments of the country. That was one of the anticipations in which the Government indulged. They went much too far, consistently, in my opinion, with the interests and the honour of the country; and what has been the result? Why, in the course of the last few months, according to the declaration of the Minister of the Crown, in the
 1289 1290 1291 1292 1293 1294 "A second regulation, highly important to prevail on France to accede to, is a reciprocal permission to our respective cruisers, within certain latitudes, to visit the merchant ships of the other power, and if found with slaves on board, in contravention of the law of their particular State, to carry or send them in for adjudication. Some power of this kind, within the track of the Slave Trade, is of the first importance." "Anxious in all matters to concert any measures with your Majesty for the common peace and happiness of mankind, I own it would afford me the highest of all possible gratifications were we enabled together to efface this painful and disgusting stain, not only from the practice of our own, but of all the other States with whom we are in friendly relations. Entreating your Majesty's favourable reception of the representations which the Duke of Wellington is instructed to lay before you on this to me, and to the nation, most interesting subject—I am, &c." "That it was proved, beyond the possibility of doubt, that unless the right to visit vessels engaged in this illicit traffic should be established by the same being mutually conceded between the maritime States, the illicit Slave Trade must in time of peace continue not only to subsist, but to increase. "That even were the trade abolished by all States, whilst the flag of one State shall preclude the visit of all other States, the illicit slave trader will always have the means of concealing himself under the disguise of the nation whose cruisers there is the least chance of meeting on the coast. "As the best means of giving effect to the declarations of the Congress of Vienna of 1814
 1295 
 "1. To prohibit and punish by law Slave Trade. "2. To establish a mutual Right of Search. "3. Minor regulations, such as are in Spanish and Portuguese Treaties. "But the rights of all nations must be brought to co-operate to the end in view, by at least ceasing to be the cover under which the object which all aim at accomplishing is to be defeated." "That if the subject be pursued with the same persevering and conciliatory temper on the part of Great Britain, which has already achieved so much for the cause of abolition, the French Government may be brought, at no distant period, to unite their naval exertions with those of the other Allied Powers for the suppression of the illicit Slave Trade, under the modified regulations submitted for this purpose to the Plenipotentiaries assembled at Aix-la-Chapelle." 1296 "But the Slave Trade is not carried on with the usual secrecy of a contrabaand trade. This contraband trade is carried on generally under the protection of the flag of France. The reason is obvious. France is the only one of the great maritime Powers of Europe whose Government has not entered into the Treaties which have been concluded with his Britannic Majesty, for giving to certain of the ships of war of each of the contracting parties a limited power of search and capture of ships engaged in this horrible traffic; and those employed in this service have too much respect for the flag of France, to venture, excepting in cases of extraordinary suspicion, to search vessels which sail under its protection. An endeavour has recently been made to improve these Treaties with Spain, the Netherlands, and Portugal; but no improvement of the measures to be carried into execution under those Treaties, however well calculated under other circumstances to effect the object in view, can be effectual, so long as contraband traders in men can carry on their trade by assuming any foreign flags, especially one in every view so respectable as that of France." That, in order to give effect to this renewed declaration, their respective Cabinets will enter into the examination of any measure compatible with their rights and the interests of their subjects, to produce a result that may prove to the world the sincerity of their wishes, and of their efforts in favour of a cause worthy of their common solicitude." 1297 1298 1299 "If you ask me to negotiate for the cancelling of existing Treaties, I shall be met by a distinct and positive refusal; they will not even entertain the proposal; it will be an affront to France to have such a proposal rejected contumeliously; do not call on me to expose the country to such an insult." 1300
 Mr. Duncombe  begged leave to ask a question upon this subject. It was this: He would wish to know if the decisions of the Board of Trade were the decisions that were gazetted? and if they were, were those decisions final? The reason he asked the question was this—if any new information should be acquired upon any line so announced as decided upon, and that the Board of Trade should find that information of such a character as to induce it to alter their opinion, would there then be a new announcement in the  Gazette?
 Mr. Duncombe  said, that having presented petitions from Mr. Mazzini on two occasions, he should have risen to address the House with anxiety in this instance, had he not been prepared to state in his place that a more foul calumny had never been cast upon any individual than the right hon. Gentleman had thought fit on that occasion to utter upon the character of Mr. Mazzini. If that were any defence of the right hon. Gentleman's conduct, he did not think this was the time for blackening the character of Mr. Mazzini, when the right hon. Gentleman's own character and that of the Government were on trial; but he was happy to have it in his power completely, and, he believed, for ever, to set at rest the calumnies and the aspersions which the right hon. Gentleman had thought fit to cast upon this individual in his absence. What were the facts of the case? It appeared to him that at every step they took—every time they stirred this painful subject, the darker, deeper, and more disgraceful did these transactions appear, and the worse did the Government
 1354 Moniteur, Westminster Review, 1355 1356 Gazette des Tribunaux. J. Graham: Moniteur. 1357 Moniteur." Moniteur. 1358 Medea Gazette, 1359 1360
 Lord John Russell  quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman, that the present scale of duties should not continue in force for a longer period than the Government proposed; but with regard to the question of drawback, he thought it should be the policy to make the loss as easy to those who had paid the duty as possible. When, for the public advantage, useless offices were abolished, it was usual to make the charge as little burdensome as possible to the individuals; and he thought, with regard to persons engaged in trade, when changes were made for the general benefit in excise duties, which those persons could not foresee or expect, he thought the same principle should be adopted. It was hard when a benefit was conferred upon the public, that a loss of 1,200 l. l.
 Mr. Hawes  called the attention of the Government to the following Notice which had been given by the hon. Member for London (Mr. Pattison):—
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, the Order extended only to the officers in the Civil Service, and not to the clergy, or to the Governor. The instructions to which the hon. Gentleman referred, were part of a general scheme for remodelling, and, as he trusted, for improving the Civil Service in Ceylon. He had heard it stated, that, concurrent with the Order for the prohibition of the civil officers from engaging in agricultural and commercial pursuits, a proposal had been made by the noble Lord for an increase of salary in some cases, and for a further provision in the shape of retiring pensions. These pensions did exist up to a certain period; and since they had ceased, many complaints had been made of the absence of civil officers from their duties, in consequence of the private pursuits in which they were embarked. The noble Lord had not fixed the particular period before which the properties should be disposed of; but he had merely notified to the
 1321
 Mr. G. W. Hope  did not rise to object to the Committee, but wished the House to consider to what extent it was likely their labours would be valuable. As he understood, the proposal was to take such Members of the former Committee as were now in the House, to complete the inquiry they began, with a view partly to an improved mode of collection, and partly to a Colonial Budget, of course with estimates to be laid on the Table, without which a Budget would be useless. Now, as regarded the Crown Colonies, the Government assumed responsibility over the Revenue, and had been for years occupied in introducing improvements; but, as regarded Colonies having popular forms of Government, that House and Her Majesty's Ministers had no responsibility; but left the matter in the control of the local Assemblies; if the House made a recommendation it rested with those Colonies to adopt it or not, as they pleased. As far as the Government had power over its own officers, it was already endeavouring to enforce regularity; but variety must be expected from a number of Colonial Assemblies.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that no one could better argue a question like this, than the hon. Gentleman; but he could not accede to the proposition. He could not tell what was the amount of duty to be remitted, but he could ascertain the amount of drawback on articles exported. Besides, it would be impossible to distinguish between old bottles and new. In his opinion, it would not be consistent with principle, nor for the advantage of the Revenue, to accede to the proposition.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  denied that there was any analogy between the case of a person whose office was abolished, and that of a bottle merchant who had paid duty.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was not in his power to give a satisfactory answer to the right hon. Gentleman. He could assure him he had been assailed very strongly on both sides. One party was anxious to have the privilege of selling foreign spirits without a publican's license; and the other side, those who had taken out a publican's license, for which they paid very highly, objected to the privilege being granted to those not liable to the same expense as themselves. He had endeavoured to reconcile these conflicting interests, but without success. His wish was to make a satisfactory arrangement: but that wish had not yet been realized.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, the impression surely could not be intended to be conveyed by the right hon. Baronet, that it was the practice of the Members of the Board of Trade to announce their decisions in the  Gazette
 Mr. Tufnell  wished to ask the hon. Gentleman (Mr. G. W. Hope), whether an Order had not been issued from the Colonial Department to the Governor of Ceylon, prohibiting officers in the Civil Service in that island from engaging in agricultural or commercial pursuits; and if so, what time was allowed them to dispose of their property? He also wished to know if the Governor, and the clergy of the Established Church, were included in that Order?
 Mr. Warburton  observed that no attack had ever been made on the character of Mr. Mazzini before the Committee.
 Dr. Bowring  said, he rose to propose the nomination of a Committee to examine and report on the state of the Colonial Accounts. It was not a new subject, for in 1837 a Committee had been appointed—had collected together much valuable evidence—but in consequence of the Session closing, that evidence had not been completed, and there was no possibility of making a Report suggesting measures of reform. The consquence was that the evidence only was laid in an unfinished state on the Table of the House. He wished that the work begun in 1837 should be terminated 1845,—that the points which were then neglected should be now investigated, and that the arrangements necessary for giving order, uniformity, and lucidity to the Colonial accountancy, should have the weight which attached to the recommendations of a Parliamentary Committee. On the importance of the Colonies it was scarcely necessary for him to dwell. Whatever views hon. Members might take of the general subject, no one could doubt that it was a question of consummate gravity. He could not conceive that any honest person could desire that the accounts of the Colonies should be kept in a confused, irregular, or unintelligible shape. Any honest interest must desire accuracy and good faith; and the slightest consideration would show how great the interests involved. A Return lately moved for by his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, exhibited no less than forty-one Colonies dependent upon this great Empire—containing a population of 5,000,000 of human beings. To the United Kingdom, these Colonies sent for the value of 10,500,000 l., l. 1322 l. l. l. 1323 l. s.; l. s. d. 1324 l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. 1325 l. l.; l. l 1326 Cour des Comptes 1327 1328 1329 1330
 Dr. Bowring  said, it was in the recollection of the House, that during last Session it was resolved that measures should be taken to modify the quarantine system, and that such steps should be adopted as would lessen the grievances which the commercial world laboured under, both at home and abroad. Now, he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet what had been done to carry out the wish of the House on that subject?
 Mr. Hume  thought that even a suggestion to those Assemblies would be useful, though it might not be authoritative. If the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) wanted money, here was a department in which large sums might be saved. An enormous expense for collection was allowed in order to keep up patronage; and in the mode of levying many of the products of this country were unfairly dealt with. The Colonies ought to be no expense to the mother country; whereas we were paying large sums for Australia and other of our possessions. In France there were no complaints of mismanagement; but then there was a board comprising a delegate from each Colony, to whom the Minister of Marine resorted for a Report on any question that might arise. He
 1331
 Mr. Sheil : I have risen in order to move the Resolution of which I gave notice before the Easter recess. I submit it in the following terms:— "Resolved 1332 1333 "Rome, September 1334 1335 1336 "curiosa felicitas" 1337 attachés 1338 1339
 Mr. Spooner  considered that some time should be allowed before the new scale of protective duties came into operation. He proposed on a future occasion to move that those duties have effect from and after the the 10th of April, 1846.
 Mr. F. T. Baring  wished to call the attention of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the case made on the part of the retailers of foreign spirits and liqueurs. They had no power now to sell under the amount of two gallons. In the Report of the Excise Committee, it was recommended that the amount should be reduced, and in consequence of that re commendation he had introduced a Bill some years ago, which would allow the sale of one bottle of foreign spirits and liqueurs. That Bill had passed the House of Commons, but was lost in the House of Lords, for what reason he did not then recollect. He was afraid the Chancellor of the Exchequer thought this a small matter, but he could assure him it was no small matter when a considerable number of persons were in the habit of breaking the law. The habits of society were such, that consumers did not purchase to the amount of two gallons of these articles. It would be much more preferable that parties should be able to carry on their business in a legal manner, and not be subject to the attacks of informers; for at present they must either disoblige their customers or violate the law. He wished to know if any change was likely to be made in the present state of the law.
 Sir G. Clerk  said, the terms of the advertisement to which the noble Lord had referred, did not contain a correct account of the circumstances connected with this railway. If any mistake had arisen with regard to the announcement of the decision of the Board of Trade on the subject of that particular railroad, it must have arisen entirely on the part of the railway
 1318 Gazette 1319
 Sir George Clerk  said, in reply to the hon. Gentleman, he should beg leave to refer him to the statement made by his right hon. Friend the late President of the Board of Trade at the time the subject was formerly before the House. His right hon. Friend had at that time informed the House that Her Majesty's Government had entered into negotiations both with the Governments of France and of Austria for the purpose of inducing them to make such relaxations in their quarantine laws as would be most advantageous to the commercial interests of their respective countries. On the part of France he believed no objection had been offered; but the Government of Austria wished in the first instance to have a Report on the subject from medical officers appointed by themselves. So reasonable a proposition could not be objected to; but as yet no final reply had been received from the Austrian Government on the subject.
 Sir George Clerk  said, certainly not. The Board of Trade did not come to any decision until it had given the fullest consideration to the subject. It was not possible to conceive that parties would have kept back back material documents for two months, without giving the Board any intimation of their existence.
 Sir George Clerk  had not the least idea that the Board would make any alteration in its decisions; but, at the same time,
 1320 Gazette,
 Sir James Graham : Sir, it becomes my
 1340 1341 1342 Giovanena Italia, 1343 La Giovanina Italia, "I some time since intended to mention a paper called  Giovanina Italia, 1344 Moniteur Moniteur "A threefold assassination has just alarmed the town of Rodez. Three Italian refugees have fallen under the dagger of one of their countrymen. We will limit ourselves in the first instance to giving a simple statement of the facts which have preceded and accompanied this event. The judicial inquiry will clear up all the circumstances of the catastrophe. … But the excitement was renewed in October. At 9 o'clock in the evening of the 20th, M. Emiliani, one of the refugees, whose name had been more than once put forward in the threats of the disorderly, was attacked by several of them, and received two rather severe wounds; and his recovery was owing solely to the assistance which was afforded to him by the inhabitants of Rodez. The assassins were arrested. Proceedings were instituted against them. Things were in this state, and the prosecution was taking its course, when the Procureur du Roi received, in the middle of January, 1833, a copy of a sentence issued on the 15th December by the Superior Tribunal of Marseilles, pronouncing sentence of death against the persons named Emiliani and Scuriatti, and inflicting other punishments upon the persons named Lazzoreschi and Andreani, which sentence was signed by Mazzini, the very same person who, in November, had denied the existence of a tribunal and of sentences of this nature, and who has since been expelled the country by order of the Minister of the Interior. Measures were ordered to be taken by the authorities in order to examine into the authenticity of this document." Moniteur. 1345 La Giovane Italia; President." 1346 1347 Member: Giovane Italia 1348 1349 1350 1351 "Whitehall, Dec. 1352 "The Earl of Tankerville and the Right Hon. H. F. Carteret, His Majesty's Postmaster General." 1353
 Sir Robert Peel  did not know whether or not it would be competent for the hon. Member to make such a Motion, after the passing of the Resolution now before the Committee; but he trusted the House would support the Government in relieving the glass trade from the restrictions to
 1363
 Viscount Howick  wished to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet the
 1317 Gazette, Gazette, Secretary.
 Lord J. Russell  thought, that after the observations of the noble Lord at the head of the Woods and Forests, it would have been better had this measure been deferred until after the introduction of the Health of Towns Bill. He should, under these circumstances, vote against the second reading of this Bill. At the same time, he gave every credit to the hon. Gentleman for the excellence of his intention, and for the pains he had taken in the details of the measure. He granted that a great nuisance existed; but he did not agree in the particular mode of remedy advocated by the hon. Gentleman.
 The Earl of Lincoln  retained the opinion he had expressed on a former occasion—namely, that it would have been more convenient to postpone the Bill until the Bill of the Government, introducing sanatory regulations into large towns, had been laid on the Table. Under that Bill, it would be necessary to constitute local administrative bodies; and, therefore, it would be premature now to appoint local inspectors for the single nuisance of smoke throughout the kingdom. However, as his hon. Friend objected to the delay, and as his object was merely to lay the Bill before a Select Committee to consider the different clauses of the Bill, he should consider it his duty to support the second reading. There would not be much inconvenience in that course, as the Committee might so modify the clauses of the Bill as to render them compatible with the sanatory measure of the Government. The hon. Member for Lambeth should recollect, that neither refineries nor breweries were affected by the Bill; the operation of which was confined wholly to steam-boilers, a restriction which he regretted. He was sure, when the hon. Gentleman reflected upon the large amount of property destroyed by smoke, he would not be inclined to throw any impediment in the way of legislation upon this subject. As one instance, he might mention that a short time ago a nursery-gardener in the neighbourhood of this metropolis was in the habit of railing expensive and valuable
 1366
 Mr. Cowper  said, the hon. Member for Manchester appeared to be so enamoured of the advantages to be derived from requiring school certificates with children, that he proposed to have the system adopted in the agricultural districts; and he agreed with the hon. Member in the great importance of extending education to the population of the country generally—to the agricultural as well as the manufacturing districts. With respect to the necessity of encouraging and diffusing education in the manufacturing districts, they ought to remember it had been stated that such was the constant employment of the children in print works as almost to prevent the possibility of their education, as the teaching of the Sunday schools was insufficient to give them adequate instruction in reading and writing, in addition to which the children were so exhausted in mind and body from their week's employment that they were unable to pay sufficient attention to the instructions at the school on Sunday. If the House of Commons of a former day took care of
 1381 1382
 Mr. Williams  said, that if the House consented to this Vote they would, in fact, be passing the whole Army Estimates, amounting to 6,000,000 l. l.
 Mr. Williams  said, if he were to state the reduction he wished to make, he did not believe any accountant in England, after a month's application, could tell the precise cost of a given number of men. There were so many contingent items, that no correct result could be arrived at.
 Mr. Williams  would state in a few words what reduction he wished to have made. The reason which had always been assigned in the discussions which he had
 1398
 Mr. Edward Ellice , jun. said, he unfortunately was not present during the early part of the learned Lord's Address, and must reserve any distinct opinion on the Bill until the second reading. He might be permitted to say, from what he heard of its provisions, that though he gave credit like his noble Friend to the Government, for grappling with so difficult, and to the people of Scotland, so important a question; still he doubted whether the measure was sufficiently comprehensive in its details to meet the case. From personal attention to the condition of the poor in a considerable district, he doubted whether any but compulsory assessment would be effectual, which should, in his opinion, be levied under the superintendence of persons not locally interested. There could be no doubt of the distress of the population, or of the necessity of some comprehensive measure of relief. That part of the learned Lord's speech which related to lunatics was not quite clear. Every one knew that the present system was a disgrace to a civilized community. The manner of taking care, or rather no care, of persons so afflicted, was as disgraceful as the old prison discipline before the system was amended. He understood the learned Lord to propose that pauper lunatics should be confined in asylums. If, however, he supposed that parishes would voluntarily assess themselves for the erection of such buildings, he begged to tell him that such an idea was not to be entertained for a moment.
 Mr. S. Herbert  wished to understand the hon. Gentleman correctly. The hon. Gentleman proposed, he thought, to retain one regiment of Life Guards, as at present; but that the other regiments of Life Guards and the Foot Guards should be put on the footing of regiments of the line, without any reduction of their numbers.
 Lord Ashley : Sir, my right hon. Friend who has just sat down was kind enough to inform me yesterday of the intentions of Her Majesty's Government as respects this Bill. It is, therefore, to his courtesy and kindness I am indebted, that I am not now taken unawares. I took, Sir, into very anxious consideration the propositions which have been thus stated to me by my right hon. Friend, and I think the result of it is this. I find that my Bill is in this position. Supposing that the Amendments of the right hon. Baronet should be adopted, on one side I lose this—I lose the extension of the provisions of the Bill to those departments connected with the bleaching, dyeing, and calendering of this manufacture, which is not immediately connected with calico printing. I will merely just say, that the right hon. Baronet had omitted to state the condition of the bleaching works in Scotland, which was the great thing I directed my attention to when I introduced the provisions into the Bill which had reference to this branch of the trade. I next find that I shall lose the protection which I proposed to children under thirteen years of age, as I am anxious to limit their labour to a period of eight hours in the day, although a certain protection will be given to them as regards the night work. These children, however, will be left to the possibility of being obliged to labour for sixteen hours every day in the week. These are the points of the Bill which I shall lose. On the other hand, I shall retain the prohibition of the work of children under eight years of age; I shall re-
 1376 1377
 Lord Ashley , in reply, would only detain the House by reading five lines of a letter which he had received. The effect of the letter was, that the improvement that had taken place in the morals and manners of children and young persons engaged in mills and factories was so great, that they did not appear to be the same race of human beings; and that so sensible were those most interested of the im-
 1389
 Lord Dalmeny  congratulated the Government and the country on the fact that they (the Ministers) had not only turned their attention to the question of the Scotch poor, but grappled with the difficulties that beset it. He was not prepared to say that the measure just introduced would be effectual for the purpose in view. He was not then in a condition to pronounce a positive opinion on its provisions. There were several opinions broached by the learned Lord which admitted of controversy, and he should reserve for the second reading the suggestion of such Amendments as he thought desirable.
 Lord F. Egerton  was glad to hear those opinions which had been expressed by one who, peculiarly on a subject of this kind, had the strongest claims on the attention of the House, from the experience of a long life, during which he had been connected with the manufacturing industry of the country. He did not know from what quarter of the country the hon. Member for Winchester had obtained his information; but he must say that, as far as his own information extended, he believed that, upon the whole, great and substantial benefit had been derived from the legislation which had taken place with respect to the manufacturing industry of the country. He would not, upon this occasion, enter into the discussion of the various questions of political economy connected with this subject, or into the distinctions of different kinds of labour, so far as they became the subject of legislative interference. With respect to the machinery invented by man, it was found that there was a disposition to attach to labour for too long periods those connected with it; and it was found that legislative interference and regulations were necessary with respect to those engaged in these labours. With respect to agricultural labour, it might be said that that was also connected with machinery—the machinery of the earth. But there was this distinction, that the machinery of the Mighty Architect was one which worked silently and in secret, unlit by their gas and unviewed by their light—it still worked on silently and beneficially in
 1388
 Lord F. Egerton  said, that he could not possibly assent to the assertion that the smoke from manufactories was no nuisance, or even a small nuisance; for he knew that in the district which he had the honour to represent it was felt to be a great nuisance; and he conceived that to talk of this period for legislation on the subject being too early, or that discussion was unnecessary in that House, was quite beside the facts of the case. He was favourable to the object of the Bill; but he thought there would be some difficulty in carrying its enactments into effect.
 Mr. Hawes  wished, before the Bill was read a second time, to have some clear understanding as to the intentions of Government. He opposed the Bill simply because he believed it would be impossible to carry it out. On a former occasion, the noble Earl at the head of the Woods and Forests stated that the Bill had received full consideration from Government; and that the Government did not think it expedient that it should be proceeded with at present. He thought that the hon. Member for Leamington ought to suspend the progress of the Bill until the Sanatory Bill of the Government came before the House. He believed that the smoke of private houses caused as much annoyance as factory chimneys, which were especially aimed at by the Bill. With these views,
 1365
 Mr. Hawes  was perfectly satisfied with the course proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, and should, therefore, withdraw his Motion; but he should like to know whether the Committee would have power to take evidence upon certain points of the Bill?
 Mr. Hawes  thanked the learned Lord for the manner in which he had taken up the inquiry into the state of the lunatics in the Isle of Arran, and he was sure, when the learned Lord's attention was promised, that it would be effectually done. He must say, also, that a more comprehensive or luminous speech, or one more calculated to carry conviction throughout the country, he had never heard delivered in that House. The main difficulties of this question had been grappled with with great caution, and the noble Lord was introducing a new system under the most favourable auspices. Reference had been made to the necessity for a compulsory assessment; now, as he understood the present proposal, it did contain the germ of a compulsory assessment. He did not say this to prejudice the measure; but, as he understood it, supposing inadequate relief were given, the party had an appeal to the Board of Supervision, and on hearing they were fully authorized to order a sufficient allowance, and when a few such cases were determined there would be a general standard of allowance; and as funds must be raised, the present proposal came to the compulsory assessment by the most moderate, most unexceptionable, and the safest way. Speaking generally, the Government deserved great thanks for this Bill; and, so far as those who were free from the great interests of property involved in the proposal, could give the Government their support, they ought to give it freely, being assured that if there were any details requiring amendment which would be proposed, and if they were backed by reasons, they would not find unwilling attention, With regard to lunatics, in particular, he hoped the learned Lord would see the necessity for some provision. Although the learned Lord stated that the lunatics, who had been illegally confined in the Isle of Arran, had been released, he
 1423
 Mr. B. Escott  considered this a very
 1396
 Mr. B. Escott  differed from the principle of the Bill; but, as the persons interested in the question gave it no opposition, and the noble Lord and the Government were agreed as to the Bill, he supposed that it would pass. He could not help thinking that the measure had reached its present stage in a somewhat remarkable manner. The noble Lord had adopted the suggestions of the Government, and had taken what he could get. No doubt that was quite proper. He had given his reasons for doing so; one of which was, that if he had not adopted the suggestions of the Government, he would not have been able to pass any measure at all. The right hon. Gentleman had agreed to the second reading of the Bill, after making a speech, in which he said that he only did so in the hope that he would be able to strike out certain objectionable clauses. He had no objection to that course, if the right hon. Gentleman thought he was able to make it a salutary and good measure. He was, however, astonished at the speeches of the hon. Members for Manchester and Montrose, because they had made strong speeches against the principle of the Bill, and yet they said they would not divide the House.
 1386 Ashley:
 Mr. Packe , as Chairman of the Quarter Sessions, begged leave to say a few words on behalf of the excellent gentlemen against whom this complaint was made, Mr. Cresswell and Mr. Abney. He quite agreed with the opinion that had been expressed, that there had been an error in the act of these gentlemen. He was convinced that it was a mere error, and that no corrupt motive could have possibly influenced, or could be imputed to these respectable persons. He had known these two gentlemen for a considerable length of time, and he had acted at Quarter Sessions with them, and he could bear testimony to their proper conduct. He trusted that what had occurred now would be a useful lesson to gentlemen in the country, that they would now know that the 18th George III. ought not to be separated from the act authorising the payment of rates. He was sorry for the unfortunate individuals concerned in this case; but he trusted that no further steps would be taken to the injury of those respectable gentlemen, and whose characters, he would say, were not deserving of any reproach being cast upon them.
 The Lord Advocate  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the amendment and better administration of the laws relating to the Relief of the Poor in Scotland; and stated that he should, with the leave of the House, explain as briefly as possible the grounds on which he ventured to make the Motion, as well as the nature of the measure which, if permitted, he intended to propose for the adoption of the Legislature. It was known to the House, at least it was known to many Members of the House, that public attention had been for
 1400 1401 "That the funds raised for the relief of the poor, and the provision made for them out of the funds raised for their relief is, in many parishes throughout Scotland, insufficient." "There is undoubtedly abundant evidence to prove that the allowances are often inadequate, both in town and country parishes; and that the amount of relief given is frequently altogether insufficient to provide even the commonest necessaries of life. Throughout the Highland districts, and in some parts of the Lowlands also, where the funds consist solely of what may be raised by the Church collections, the amount is often inconsiderable. In many of these places, it will be seen that the quantum of relief given is not measured by the necessities of the pauper, but by the sum which the Kirk Session may happen to have in hand for distribution." "In adverting to the inadequacy of the allowances, we must not, however, be understood to confine our statements to those parishes only in which no fund, except church collections, is raised for the poor either by voluntary contributions or by a legal assessment; as there are many of the assessed parishes to which the same remarks are almost equally applicable. We cannot cite a stronger instance than that of the city of Edinburgh, in which the Town Council have for years declined to increase the rate of assessment, notwithstanding applications made by the managers of the poor, and their representations that the necessities of the poor were increasing, and the funds raised insufficient." 1402 1403 1404 1405 1406 1407 1408 "The amount of the money allowance made by the administrators of the poor funds gives, in most cases, but a very imperfect notion of a pauper's resources and actual means of livelihood. There are very few of those receiving relief in the country parishes who are not able in some way or other to earn a little towards their own subsistence; besides which, the standard of living varies so much in different parts of Scotland, that with 1 s. s. 1409 1410 1411 in formâ pauperis, 1412 "The evils attendant on an appeal to the local magistracy as to the proper amount of aliment, are, we think, so great, that we have no hesitation in stating our opinion to be decidedly adverse to such an innovation. It is obvious that the opinions of individual judges or magistrates may vary so materially on the question of what ought to be the proper amount of
 1413 "These examples are sufficient to show how little reliance can be placed on the opinion of any one person as to the proper quantum of allowance." 1414 ex officio ex officio ex officio 1415 in formâ pauperis; 1416 1417 1418 Hon. Member 1419 1420 Hawes: Ellice, 1421
 Mr. Fitzstephen French  only wished that Her Majesty's Government would act towards Ireland as they were acting towards Scotland; but the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, in answer to a question put to him by the hon. Member for Mallow, had refused even to inquire into the Poor Law system in Ireland. With respect to the nine years' residence proposed before a party not born in Scotland could be entitled to relief, he doubted whether many persons deserving aid, especially from Ireland, would not be excluded.
 Mr. F. French  said, that there could be no doubt that here the parties had a right to complain of the injustice, and it might be said of the ignorance of these persons; for, if he were rightly informed, they had no power to commit, unless it had been proved that property had been secreted to avoid the payment of rates [ Cries of s., s.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the hon. Gentleman could not but be aware, that although 129,000 was the number of men stated in the Mutiny Bill, it did not follow that that force would be maintained during the year. The Act stated the number of men which the Crown might during the year raise for the standing army; but then the number actually employed must, of course, depend on the money granted to pay all the troops in the service; and the hon. Gentleman would have as good an opportunity of bringing forward his proposal of a reduction on the question of the amount of money to be paid, as on that of the number of men to be employed. As the Mutiny Act expired on the 22nd of April, it was necessary to hasten its renewal. He trusted, therefore, that the hon. Gentleman would not object to the Government taking the first Vote.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would undertake to promise, that if the hon. Gentleman would state what reduction he intended to propose, his right hon. Friend would furnish him with the exact cost, and by that means the hon. Gentleman's object would be secured.
 Mr. Labouchere  thought the best mode would be to withhold the consideration of this matter for the present; as the Government had announced their intention of embrace it. It would be a mere waste of time, under such circumstances, to refer the matter to a Select Committee. He would vote against the second reading of the Bill.
 Mr. Ricardo  reminded the hon. Member for Lambeth, that the Government were going to introduce a Bill affecting the same subject; and it would be, therefore, all labour lost to make any inquiry into the nature of this Bill. For his part, he would rather the matter should rest with the Government than be entrusted to the hands of a Committee. There were two parties affected by this Bill. The one was the party who was annoyed by smoke; the other was the party who lived by smoke. Now, he could only say, on the part of his constituents, that they would have to give up business altogether if they were not allowed to smoke. They were now in a state of uncertainty; and there was no doubt that they would remain so, until the intentions and measure of the Government on this subject were before the House.
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that the details of this Bill might be greatly modified and improved. In that case, he hoped that the hon. Member would not press his Motion against the second reading of the Bill. He should remark that there were chimneys belonging to certain manufactories in Manchester (where there was a strong feeling on this subject), from which there was no more smoke than from a private dwelling-house. He believed that the Bill, if properly modified, would meet with warm support in Manchester. There was no doubt that great attention would be paid to the correction of the Bill by the Select Committee.
 Mr. Brotherton  cordially approved of the course taken by the noble Lord. He had been a spinner in Manchester for the last thirty-one years; and for a long time he stood alone in advocating legislative interference with the labour of children. In 1815, the late Sir Robert Peel took up
 1387
 Mr. Hume  considered the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman perfectly satisfactory.
 Mr. Hume  knew nothing of the persons whose names had been mentioned; but the question, he said, to be considered was this—what redress were these poor
 1394 s. s.
 Mr. Hume  had one or two observations to make on the speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down, because he thought his hon. Friend had totally misunderstood the observations of the hon. Member for Manchester. He deplored the extended hours of labour and night-work as much as any man; but what both he and his hon. Friend deprecated was the interference with one class of the community. If they were to interfere with children of a certain age, let them begin with the farming children. The hon. Member denied that young children were employed in agriculture. Had he never seen young children, in wet cold weather, engaged in herding cattle? Why, only fourteen days ago, while the snow was on the ground, he had seen children of six or seven years of age tending cattle in the field. He thought that those children deserved to be taken care of by the Legislature, as I well as the children in the manufacturing districts. Did the hon. Member believe that there were no children of thirteen years of age—[Mr.  Cowper: 1383 Cowper: 1384
 Mr. Hume  would not oppose the Vote of 100,000 men for the army at that period, provided it were understood that he should not be prevented from bringing forward the subject on a future occa-
 1397
 Mr. Hume  had listened with attention to the very clear and distinct statement of the learned Lord. He did not concur in the opinion that assessment should be compulsory. If the learned Lord was correct
 1422
 Mr. Ainsworth  begged to thank the noble Lord, on behalf of his constituents, for his exertions on this subject. He thought that, in matters of this kind, those whose interests were concerned, namely, the working classes themselves, ought to be able to form an opinion as to what was best for their own interests. He wished that the hon. Member for Winchester had been present, to see the way in which the working classes of Bolton had expressed their thanks to the noble Lord for his exertions in their behalf. He wished that the hon. Member would pay them a visit, and look into their mills, and see the improvements that had taken place in ventilation, in baths, and in various other ways conducive to the comfort of the working classes, and all in consequence of the system of inspection that had been established. Why, the state of things had been altogether changed within the last twenty or thirty years. He knew an establishment in his own neighbourhood, in which a large room was kept for the amusement of the working classes. The benefits derived from the exertions of the noble Lord had been very great.
 Mr. Borthwick  had supported the noble Lord the Member for Dorsetshire, ever since he had brought forward this question; and he had done so for this reason, that the noble Lord was the first to introduce into the legislation of the country the principles of humanity as against the exclusive principles of finance. This was an object worthy the ambition of the greatest statesman; and he believed that not England alone, but Europe at large, would reap the benefit of these measures of the noble Lord. He would not have been absent from these discussions on any account; and to-night he did not know whether to congratulate the noble Lord more on the support he had received, or on the character of the opposition he had met with. The support was an admission of his principles, and an offer to assist in carrying them out as far as possible; and the opposition amounted to neither more nor less than this—why do you not carry your principles into the agricultural as well as the manufacturing districts? In addition to that, one hon. Gentleman advised them to cheapen the food of the people, and then they would effect all the good they wished. Now, he questioned that, even if he were to admit, for the sake of argument, but not of fact, that it would cheapen their food. What was the argument of the hon. Gentleman? That it would cheapen labour. ["No."] No; was it not to enable manufacturers to enter into competition with foreign manufacturers; and how could that be done but by cheapening labour? But he thought the argument might be answered on a broader principle. Were they not to do some good because they did not see it their duty at once to do all the good that others might wish? Suppose that the repeal of the Corn Laws were fraught with all the blessings which its supporters expected, were they not to do some good today, because they would not agree to the repeal of the Corn Laws to-morrow? He thought the noble Lord had done wisely in adopting the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman, who had admitted as much of the measure as was perhaps practicable in the present circumstances of the country; and he had no doubt that the measure would soon be in active operation. He thought the whole system of education might be prodigiously improved without any serious difficulty, for he thought the
 1385
 Mr. Borthwick  expressed his surprise at the opposition of the hon. Member for Lambeth, seeing that no person would be more benefited by the suppression of the smoke nuisance than the hon. Member's constituents. He thought that his hon. Friend the Member for Leamington had established a claim on the gratitude of the inhabitants of large towns by introducing the measure.
 Mr. Spooner  hoped his hon. Friend the Member for Leamington would postpone the second reading of this Bill. Suppose the most complete apparatus were to be employed for effecting the object which the hon. Gentleman had in view, there was nothing to compel the workmen to put it into effective use; and without their co-operation, it would be utterly futile to attempt to carry the Bill into effect. Besides, there was a very great doubt whether the consumption of smoke would not compel a very much larger consumption of fuel. The hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Hawes) had complained that the Bill was a mere waste of legislation; but he would go further, and say, that if they attempted to carry this Bill into effect, they would excite such an amount of opposition throughout the country as would not only prevent any benefit being derived from it, but would also very greatly militate against any really good measure. Another inconvenience arising from the measure, as it stood, was, that every manufacturing interest was claiming to be exempt from its operation. He believed, indeed, that there was a Notice on the Books for excluding the iron trade; and if the iron trade, why not the glass trade, or any other trade? He trusted, therefore, that the hon. Gentleman would not press this Bill to a division; for he be-
 1367
 Mr. T. Duncombe  wished to say a few words on this subject. He had formerly presented a petition from the workmen in the manufacturing districts, complaining of the grievances under which they laboured. Their petition went even farther than the noble Lord's Bill, for they asked the House to limit the time in which machinery was to be employed. But he was satisfied that this petition was proposed to the House in the belief that the employers generally would not give the noble Lord's measure their zealous co-operation; that they would be adverse to its provisions, and, being adverse, that they would evade it. But now, when he understood from the noble Lord that several of the master manufacturers were favourable to his Resolutions, and particularly to the abolition of night work, that materially altered the question, and he thought the noble Lord had exercised a wise discretion in agreeing to the offer made by the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary. He trusted the concessions made by the Government would be received by all parties in the spirit in which they were offered.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, the right hon. Gentleman had stated the circumstances quite accurately, for last week the same parties who sent the petitions to the right hon. Gentleman called upon him (Mr. Duncombe), and it was by his advice that the petitions were so sent. His hon. Friend (Sir J. Easthope) was not in town, and as Parliament was not sitting — it being in the recess—he thought the best thing they could do would be to send the petitions to the right hon. Baronet. He
 1393
 Mr. M. Gibson  said, that in point of fact, many of the arrangements which the noble Lord and others were so desirous of effecting by legislation were already in existance in many factories, and he thought it was doubtful whether it were wise to effect such improvements by Acts of Parliament, when they found them accomplished by the voluntary efforts of employers of labour in factories. With respect to the proposal that the children should be required to attend schools at the time of a slack, he would remark that those times were the periods when the children would not be likely to be on the premises, whilst during full employment they were on the premises; and it would be therefore difficult to make the employer responsible for the attendance of the children at such a period, when he would not have the same opportunity of insuring their attendance. If the noble Lord were so desirous of improving the condition of the population of manufacturing districts, he ought to look to the improvement or the population in agricultural districts; for it was the agricultural population from which the population of manufacturing districts was drawn, and which supplied those who sent children to be employed in the calico works. The manufacturing districts now drew their labour from that poisoned source, and thus ignorant parents were brought together. If they wanted to improve and enlighten the children, they ought to begin by improving and edu-
 1378 1379 1380
 Mr. Gisborne  presumed, that as to the fees in this case, they would be found hung up in the clerk's office, duly inscribed in some old table, sanctioned by some old judge, whose name was now forgotten. Perhaps it would be found, that if these tables of fees were examined, that where there was a common conviction the fees should be 4 s., s. Packe:
 Mr. Mackinnon  wished to say a few words in explanation. It would be recollected that a Committee of that House reported that the nuisance of smoke could and ought to be prevented; and added, that if the Government did not take up the matter with a view to legislation, the Chairman of the Committee ought. Was not that recommendation worthy of regard? He had merely followed the recommendation of the Committee. In fact, he had done nothing more than act upon the instructions of the Committee. If the noble Lord did not feel inclined to proceed with his measure, he (Mr. Mackinnon) would proceed with the present Bill; but not otherwise.
 Mr. Mackinnon  moved the Second Reading of the Smoke Prohibition Bill. The hon. Member stated that he made the Motion with a view to having the Bill referred to a Committee up stairs.
 Mr. Ward  had but one or two observations to make in reference to this measure. The hon. Member assumed that there existed a smoke nuisance which could be put down; and the provisions of the Bill had particular reference to the occupiers of chimneys and furnaces. Who were occupiers of chimneys? He and other hon. Members denied the practicability of complying with the requisitions of this Bill.
 Sir James Graham  said: The House will remember that when the noble Lord moved for leave to introduce this Bill, I ventured to state my opinion on the great importance of the measure, and to express the doubt which I entertained with respect to the policy of debating the provisions which the noble Lord in bringing forward his Motion brought under the consideration of the House. This Bill was, I think, introduced on the 12th of March, and from that time to the period when we are discussing the second reading, I have been engaged in making very extensive inquiries, which, on the part of the Government, I considered it my duty to institute with respect to a measure that embraces so large a field of manufacturing industry scattered throughout different parts of the United Kingdom. I thought it necessary to assemble in London the Factory Inspectors appointed under the provisions of the Factory Act, and who are employed throughout the districts in which the trades affected by the present Bill are carried on. Under my directions the inspectors repaired to their different districts, and having assembled the sub-inspectors engaged under them, they directed them to proceed with a copy of this Bill in their hands, and to make extensive inquiries, and to enter into communication with all the leading parties connected with these branches of industry in their respective districts. In addition to the information thus obtained, I had also the pleasure of receiving several deputations from the master manufacturers, who are most deeply interested in this measure; and I have likewise given the subject that anxious attention which, as I already stated to the House, it was both my duty and my inclination to devote to it. Because, as I observed on that former occasion, as well as now, all my feelings were in accordance with the wishes of the noble Lord, and a sense of duty to the public alone restrains me from giving an unqualified acquiescence to his measure. I am bound to state that the result of the inquiry which I have made, and of all the information which I have received, has operated in inducing myself and my Colleagues to come to the decision at which we have arrived. If by assenting to the second reading of this Bill it should be assumed for a moment that the Government pledged itself to all the details of the enactment proposed by the noble Lord, then it would, be my painful duty—
 1370 1371 1372 1373 1374 1375 pro formâ,
 Sir James Graham  said, the hon. Baronet had been so obliging as to notify to him, in the course of the morning, his intention of bringing this case before the House, and early in the evening he had presented two petitions on the subject to which it referred. If it were not for this previous information he should not have been prepared to answer the hon. Baronet's question; but what the hon. Gentleman stated was quite correct, that the circumstances of this case had excited in Leicester and the neighbourhood considerable sensation. From other quarters, unknown to him, copies of the petitions had been sent to the Home Office, and on receiving them he felt it his duty, seeing the  primâ facie 1392 s. s.
 Sir J. Graham : After what had been said by the hon. Gentleman, he hoped the House would excuse him for saying a few words. The Prerogative of the Crown
 1395
 Sir J. Graham  wished to state, for the purpose of preventing mistake or disappointment, lest any delay should occur, that before those persons could be released from prison, an instrument must be submitted to Her Majesty for her sign manual.
 Sir J. Graham  replied that it was quite true that he had received an explanation from the clerk, who was of course more cognizant of all the circumstances than the magistrates, and he must say that nothing could be more frank than the explanation given.
 Sir J. Graham  said, he wished to go into Committee  pro formâ pro formâ,
 Sir J. Graham  said, that the hon. Gentleman laboured under a mistake as to the answer he was supposed to have given to the hon. Member for Mallow. He had said, that it was not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to institute any inquiry into the Poor Law as connected with Ireland; but he had not said, that if any hon. Gentleman on the other side of the House, or on that side, should make such a Motion, and if it should receive the general concurrence of the House, that the Government was not prepared to consent to such an inquiry. He must observe,
 1424
 Sir J. Easthope  trusted that the House would further indulge him for a moment to express his acknowledgments to the right hon. Baronet for the frank manner in which he had met this case. He must, however, implore of the right hon. Gentleman not to let the first post tomorrow pass without ordering the release of these poor people. It was painful to think that they had been confined so long, and that, too, most illegally and unjustly. He felt strongly that not a moment should be lost in directing their release; and he thought the House would be of the same opinion, that the right hon. Gentleman could not so well discharge his duty as in hastening their relief—ay, if it were even but by six hours. The remedy ought to be applied the first moment that the grievance was thus known and proved.
 Sir John Easthope  said, before the House proceeded to a Committee of Supply, he hoped he should be strictly in order in recalling the attention of the House to the subject of the petitions which he had presented in an early stage of the evening's proceedings. He thought he should obtain the indulgence of the House when he stated that these were cases of very serious hardship upon very helpless and very defenceless persons. He was aware that he required that indulgence, but thought it would be found not to be ill bestowed, as he would occupy as short a time as possible. The first case was that of a man of the name of Thomas Lakin, who was sentenced to imprisonment for the nonpayment of 5 s. d. s. s. s. d. s. d. 1390 1391
 Sir R. Peel  proposed that the suggestion of the hon. Member for Salford should be adopted, as no one could be more competent to make a suggestion on the matter than that hon. Gentleman. It was impossible to make any rule with respect to the suppression of a general nuisance which would not create some local inconveniences. The Select Committee would consider whether the provisions of this Bill could be safely adopted. He was very certain that the time of the
 1368
 Mr. S. Wortley  said, he was anxious to state the reasons why he wished to support the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman (Sir R. Peel). The question for the determination of the House was, whether they would make up their minds to withdraw the grant to Maynooth altogether, or increase it. He was not prepared to take the former course, and, feeling that it was impolitic to leave the institution in its present state, he saw no alternative but to adopt the course recommended by the head of the Government. The hon. Member for Oxford did not show his usual accuracy when he said the Act did not authorize the institution to do more than receive subscriptions. The Tenth Section of the Irish Act of Parliament gave power to the parties in charge of the institution; but the latter part of the section stated that "any sum not exceeding 8,000 l. 98
 The Earl of Arundel , as an English Roman Catholic, expressed his hearty thanks to Ministers for this proposition.
 Mr. Law  had no hesitation in avowing the reluctance with which he felt himself called upon to offer opposition to the measure proposed by the right hon. Gentleman. At the same time, he begged to express his obligations to that right hon. Gentleman for the extreme candour, the full notice, and liberal announcement of his intention, both at the close of the late Session and the commencement of the present. Whatever objection could be raised to the principle of the measure, no one could say that the country or that House had been taken by surprise. Towards the close of the late Session, and at the commencement of the present, a clear indication was afforded of the course on which the Government were entering; and which, though apparently trifling, gave in his judgment the clearest possible demonstration that the Government were prepared to enter upon a course, not only embracing the present measure, but extending to others, of equal, if not greater importance. He alluded to the Commission issued in reference to the Roman Catholic Bequests Bill, in which the names of right rev. Prelates of the Roman Catholic Church were not only associated in juxtaposition with the Primate of Ireland and the Bishops of the United English and Irish Church, but
 70 71 72 73 74 75 l. 76
 Lord F. Egerton  said, that after the speech of his right hon. Friend, which had, he thought, entirely exhausted all the topics which could be alleged in behalf of this measure, it was not his intention to enter largely into the subject; but he was anxious not to allow the debate to go to a division without giving some brief expression to his sentiments; because he was cognizant and deeply sensible of the fact, that the vote which he was about to give would be at variance with the opinions entertained by many of those whose countenance
 64 l. l. l. l. 65 66
 Lord G. Somerset  disclaimed, on the part of Government, any idea of making the decision of the Board of Trade final with respect to any railway. The parties in every case might proceed with their Bill, notwithstanding a decision of the Board against them. It was not his intention to say anything as to the merits of the case referred to in the Motion of the hon. Member for Maidstone, as the only question now before the House was, whether that Motion should be brought on in the time of Private Business. In his opinion it was a matter which ought to be brought on in the time of Private Business.
 Lord John Russell : No one, Sir, I am sure, will call in question the perfect
 91 l. l. 92 l., l., l., l. 93 94 95 96 97
 Mr. Hawes  said, that with all deference to what seemed to be the opinion of the Chair, he must submit that the matter to which the Motion referred was wholly Private Business, and that the hon. Member for Maidstone ought to be allowed to go on with his Motion. If the decision of the Board of Trade was to be final in the case of every railway line against which it decided, there would be an end of a vast number of railway projects; but he had never understood that that was to be the rule; and as a proof that it was not so intended, it was only necessary to remind the House that the Reports of the Board of Trade, containing the grounds on which it had decided for or against any railway line, were laid before the House, as information to guide the Committees which were finally to decide on them. The decision of the Board of Trade with respect to the railway referred to in the Motion was most objectionable, and was not entitled to the attention of the House, and the parties ought to be allowed to proceed with their Bill.
 Mr. Hawes  thought that the House should have heard what the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir George Clerk) had to say in reply to the proposition of his right hon. Friend (Sir George Grey). If he considered that the Speaker had pronounced an opinion upon the matter, he would not say a word on the subject; but he understood that the Speaker had left the matter in the hands of the House. He thought that an early day should be fixed for bringing on this subject.
 Mr. Cumming Bruce  said, that, concurring as he did with the right hon. Gentleman who had brought forward this proposition, whilst he sat at the other side of the House, and having, since that right hon. Gentleman came into office, given to his measures a candid, steady, and independent support, it was with great regret that he saw him now bring forward a measure which he feared would be looked upon by many, both in and out of the House, as a heavy blow and a great discouragement to the Protestant Church in Ireland. He deeply regretted to be compelled to come to this conclusion, and to be forced to oppose a Government on this occasion with whom he had generally concurred. It appeared to him that the measure now brought forward was not in accordance with those principles which ought to regulate their conduct as Ministers of the Crown. If he looked to this question as one of expediency, he might be disposed to wave his own convictions in favour of the respect which he had for the abilities and integrity of those who brought this measure forward; but he could not regard this measure as being in accordance with those principles which should guide those Ministers in the exercise of their official responsibility. This State was a Protestant State. The Crown of this country was a Protestant Crown; and he held it incompatible with the duty of the Ministers of this country to propose measures for the support of a priesthood who, whatever might be their loyalty to the person of the Sovereign, showed every hostility to the Protestant religion, and who had sought and would seek every opportunity not only to discourage but to supplant that religion. Neither did it appear to him that the present measure
 99 l. l.,
 The Speaker  begged to remind the hon. Member that he could not enter into the merits of the case until the preliminary question was first disposed of.
 The Speaker  observed, that before the hon. Member went on it might be necessary for the House to consider whether the Motion were one which should be brought on in the time of private business. It was a question relating to a certain matter which had come before the Board of Trade, and the Motion was that the decision of that Board against a particular railway line should be referred back to it for reconsideration. It would be for the House to decide whether that came under the head of Public usiness, and if it did, it would be a question whether it ought to take precedence of all the other business of the day. In his opinion it ought not to be considered as Private Business. The
 11
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, the experience of every day confirmed more and more the opinion which he had formerly given of that Department of the Board of Trade, namely, that it was foreign to the Constitution, and odious to the public. There were honourable and talented men connected with it; but if they were angels come down from heaven, and gifted with the power of infallibility, it was impossible that they could get satisfactorily through the mass of business which was heaped upon them.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, as both the hon. Member who had just sat down, and the hon. Gentleman who preceded him, had referred to the hour as being too late to warrant them in trespassing on the time of the House, he could not, after that declaration had come from men of such great consequence in that House, and of such talents, on that important question assume to himself the vanity of intruding with his opinions for more than a very few moments. He would reserve himself for future stages in the progress of this Bill, when he would, perhaps, be more fortunate in catching the Speaker's eye than he had been on that evening. He was one, who, for the sixteen or seventeen years that he had the honour of a seat in that House, had invariably given the weight of his humble name against the appropriation of any part of the public money to the maintenance of the College of Maynooth. He did so not from any unchristian feeling towards his Roman Catholic fellow-subjects, but from a sense of the duty which he thought he owed to that Church of which he should acknowledge he was an unworthy son. [ Laughter. 101 Laughter.
 Mr. Dodd  said, he did not understand the Speaker to give any decided opinion with respect to the question before the House. All that he had said was, that the present was the proper time for deciding whether the Motion should come on at the time of Private Business or not. The hon. Gentleman was proceeding to observe, that the portion of the public who would be affected by this measure resided fifty-seven miles from London, and that the question of the construction of the railway was, therefore, one of the greatest importance to them, when—
 Mr. Dodd  rose to bring forward (at the time of Private Business) the Motion of which he had given notice—viz.,
 "That the Report of the Board of Trade against the Bill intended to be brought in by the Croydon Railway Company, to authorize the construction of a Railway to Ashford be referred back to the Board of Trade for reconsideration."
 Mr. Labouchere  confessed that he was inclined to take the view of the right hon. Baronet opposite, in preference to the opinion of the noble Lord who sat beside him. He could not help thinking that this Resolution differed in its nature from any that he recollected, and was sure that it would take the House some considerable
 13
 Mr. Plumptre  said, that the noble Lord who had last addressed the House, had satisfied himself on the ground of a compact that it was his duty to support the present proposition; but he believed the notion of a compact had been recently more deeply searched into, and had been entirely dissipated, and that this notion formed no good ground of objection to the rejection of the present measure. He had ventured to say, when Her Majesty's Government announced their intention on the first day of the Session to increase the Vote to Maynooth, that such announcement would excite no ordinary sensation throughout the country; and the result must have satisfied them that the words he had ventured to utter were founded in truth. What had recently taken place must have convinced every one of the deep feeling of the country on this subject; but he would venture to so further, and would say, that the speech which the right hon. Baronet had made that night in opening this subject, instead of allaying the excitement in the country, would be read with great trepidation. It was very painful to him to oppose Her Majesty's present Government; and he trusted they would give him credit when he said that in the opposition he gave on the present occasion, he was not desirous of showing any general opposition, because he confessed that of the general measures of the Government he readily approved. If, however, they had observed his course since he had been in Parliament, they would know that his opposition to this measure had been uniform and general. It
 89 90
 Mr. Ricardo  asked whether it was to be laid down that there was to be no appeal to the House in cases where acts of injustice had been perpetrated by the Board of Trade? Such would be the case in the present instance, if the House did not proceed with the matter.
 Mr. Borthwick  suggested that the general rule, if adverse to the Motion of the hon. Member for Maidstone, should be waved in the present instance.
 Mr. Bernal Osborne  said, amidst the long series of struggles of which Ireland had been the subject, the only thing left there which was anything like a national institution was the Roman Catholic Church, which remained as a monument to all ages of the wickedness and folly of religious persecution. The right hon. Baronet seemed disposed to take the advice of the late Bishop of Killaloe; and as he found it impossible to turn 7,000,000 of Irish into Protestants, he was determined to do all he could to make them good Catholics. The right hon. Gentleman had given a history of the origin and progress of Maynooth; and, having done so, he was surprised to hear the hon. Baronet the Member for Oxford denying that there was any compact as to the College of Maynooth. The hon. Baronet, no doubt, was not aware that when an application was made for the establishment of Maynooth, it was intended that Protestants also
 53 lapsus linguæ, Dublin Evening Mail "Please to observe how Priest Carey spells—the word 'incroach' is a specimen; and I have just, on closing this, received a letter full of this sort of vituperation from Priest Carey, such as these amphibious creatures mistake for spirit; wherever he having to use the word 'precedent,' spells it 'pressident;' one's not being sufficient, he gives it two, with and. I preserve the originals as a testimony of the
 54 s s, "Roman Catholic bishops are always anxious to procure young men of the most decent families to be members of Maynooth; but it is impossible to find a sufficient number to supply the wants of Roman Catholic ministers. The labours of a Roman Catholic clergyman are far greater than the public are aware of. They are frequently exposed to the most imminent danger of losing their health and lives in visiting, at night, the wretched hovels of the peasantry, where nothing is found but misery and contagious disorder. There are no temporal inducements for the children of the higher classes to become priests!" 55 56 omnes eodem cogimur. l.; l.: l. l. 57 58
 Mr. Bellew  said, this was a question in which he felt considerable interest, and he hoped to obtain the indulgence of the House while he addressed to them a few observations on the subject. The increased grant to the College of Maynooth proposed by Her Majesty's Government had been opposed on various and widely different grounds. Some hon. Gentlemen opposed the measure on the grounds of religious and conscientious feeling; others objected to the policy of the grant; some, again, objected to the course of education pursued at Maynooth; and another class contended that any amount of money devoted to the support of that institution should be taken, not from the public funds but from the revenues of the Established Church. The hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Ward) had intimated his intention of submitting
 77 78 Dragounades 79 l. 80 81 "It has been the custom of poor persons in Ireland to pick up such knowledge of the Latin tongue as, under the general discouragements and, occasional pursuits, and hunting down of the magistracy, they were able to acquire, and, receiving orders at home, were sent abroad to obtain a classical education. By officiating in petty chaplainships and performing, now and then, certain offices of religion for small gratuities, they received the means of maintaining themselves until they were able to complete their education. These persons afterwards, by being sunk in the most abject poverty, despised and ill treated by the higher orders amongst Protestants, and not much better esteemed or treated even by the few persons of fortune of their own persuasion, and contracting the habits and ways of thinking of the poor and uneducated among whom they were obliged to live, in a few years retain little or no traces of the talents and acquirements which distinguished them in the earlier periods of their lives." "When we are to provide for the education of any body of men we ought seriously to consider the particular functions they are to perform in life. A Roman Catholic clergyman is the minister of a very ritual religion, and, by his profession, subject to many restraints. His life is a life full of strict observances, and his duties are of a laborious nature towards himself, and of the highest possible trust towards others. The duty of confession alone is enough to set in the strongest light the necessity of his having an appropriated mode of education. The theological opinions and peculiar rites of one religion never can be properly taught in Universities founded for the purposes and on the principles of another which, in many points, are directly opposite. If a Roman Catholic clergyman, intended for celibacy and the function of confession, and strictly bred in a seminary where those things are respected, inculcated and enforced as sacred, and not made the subject of derision and obloquy, he will be ill-fitted for the former, and the latter will be, indeed, in his hands, a terrible instrument." 82
 Mr. Sheil  said: It were most unjust—it would be to the last degree ungenerous—on the part of any Irish Catholic to withhold a tribute of his unqualified panegyric from the great measure proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, and from the spirit in which it is proposed. He can have no motive but the honourable one of doing service to both countries. He will, I trust, secure the gratitude of the one, and notwithstanding a temporary clamour, his objects will, ere long, be justly estimated by the other. The grant to Maynooth is large and generous. The substitution of a permanent legislative endowment for an annual Parliamentary donation, is attended
 102 103 104 105 l. l. 106 107 108
 Mr. Mangles  said, that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Lambeth had suggested that an early day should be appointedfor discussing this subject; but he thought a Committee could very much better investigate the matter than the whole House. In his opinion it ought not to be heard by the House either in the light of Private or Public Business. An objection had been raised by an hon. Gentleman near him about the difficulty which a Committee, having twenty-three Bills before it, would find in investigating
 16
 Mr. T. Duncombe  did not coincide with the reasons offered by the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, for resisting the Motion. The right hon. Gentleman's complaint was, that if the House laid it down as a rule that this Motion should be entertained at the time of Private Business, they might have many such petitions brought before them. But his reply to that argument was, that even if they had many such petitions presented, it was the duty of the House to hear them. He could very well understand why any person connected with the Board of Trade should be unwilling to have such a Motion as the present brought forward, as he considered the Railway Department of that Board had been hastily, crudely, and unwittingly created by the House at the close of the last Session. That Department had created great public dissatisfaction; and he would go farther, and say that the Reports which had emanated from it would be found to be an actual nuisance in that House. The right hon. Gentleman opposite said, "Let the Committee decide upon this question;" but surely the Committee had quite enough to do already without imposing that additional duty upon them — but if it should be referred to them, see the loss of time that would follow. The counsel who go before them had quite enough to do in supporting the cases of their respective clients, without being obliged, in addition, to occupy the time of the Committee in supporting the decision of the Board of Trade on one side, and in opposing it on the other. The House, having already allowed the hon. Member for Maidstone to present a petition on this subject, and afterwards to move that it be printed at the time of Private Business, he thought it was but just that the consideration of the
 14 "That Mr. Dodd, the Member for Maidstone, be now heard in support of the Motion intended to be made by him, and that the Question be proposed to the House."
 Mr. T. Duncombe  could not allow this question to go to a division without stating that it was his intention to vote against the Motion proposed by the right hon. Baronet; first, because of the permanency of the vote; secondly, on account of the source from which the grant was to be derived; and, thirdly, on account of the purposes to which the grant was to be applied. It was all nonsense, after what they had heard that evening, for hon. Gentlemen to deceive themselves by supposing that this vote was intended for any other purpose than to endow another Church. He had opposed the question of church rates whenever there had been a proposition for their abolition. He had supported such a proposition on the same principle that he should now oppose the Motion of the Government. When he looked at the million which had been given to the tithe-owners in Ireland, and when he called to mind the exemption of the Irish from the payment of the Property Tax, he could see no sufficient reason why the people of England should be still further taxed for the benefit of the sister kingdom.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  wished to know on what ground the right hon. Gentleman would not fix a day to discuss this subject; for as it was the Bill might pass through Committee before the matter could be brought under consideration. He denied that the Speaker had laid it down that the hon. Member was out of order; but he left it to the House to determine whether or not it would proceed with the Motion, as the subject was entirely new. He should take the sense of the House, if he stood alone.
 Mr. Gisborne  conceived that the House had got into a very awkward position by the manner in which they had conducted this proceeding. The present was only one of a great many cases of this kind, and they were all owing to parties having a duty entrusted to them which they were incompetent to deal with. By referring these complaints to a Select Committee who had already twenty-three independent railways to deal with, it would be found that this addition to their labours could not be satisfactorily performed by them. His opinion was, that the case ought to be heard. The hon. Gentleman ought to be allowed to make his statement, and they would then have an opportunity of deciding whether the Report of the Board of Trade was well founded or otherwise.
 Mr. Gregory : I am far from convinced by any of the arguments that have been employed by the right hon. Baronet this evening of the policy of carrying into law the Bill he has laid before the House. The original grounds, as he has himself stated, for granting a sum of money towards the support of Maynooth College, was to obviate the jacobinical tendency of a foreign education, and to provide instruction at home for the Roman Catholic clergy. In making that endowment, the Government of the day expected to see spring up a clergy not merely well-instructed, but loyal, peaceful, and devoted to the institutions of their country. The fallacy of these expectations we have lived long enough to experience. But, Sir, if in 1795 Mr. Pitt fell into an error, the mistake was most pardonable, and was one the wisest might have been betrayed into. He had had no benefit from experience—from bygone facts he could form no deductions. He and the Government of the day had every reason to expect a happy result from the experiment. Yet what is the state of the case—and what benefits has Ireland derived from the endowment? Mr. Grattan had been cited by the right hon. Baronet as the great advocate of this measure—but I will quote the words of Mr. Grattan in 1808, and ask the House have his expectations been fulfilled? He advocated the increase
 59 l. l., 60 61 62 divinœ particulum aurœ 63
 Mr. Grogan  objected to the Motion, and declared that he would vote against it.
 Sir G. Clerk  said, it was not his intention to comment on the remarks of the noble Lord. The question simply was, whether this matter ought to be brought forward at the time of Public Business. He would not go into details; but he should say, that the uniform practice of the House was, that railway matters should be disposed of with the Private Business. But this question did not fall within that rule. As it touched the character of a Public Board, he did not conceive that it should be heard with the Private Business.
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that he had not objected on the point of form on the part of the Board of Trade, for he was ready then, or at any other period, to go into the case. After the observations of the Speaker, he felt that they could not that night go on with the subject. For his own part, as the matter involved a serious charge against the Board of Trade, he was anxious to meet it.
 Sir G. Grey  expressed his great deference for the opinion which, he understood, the Speaker entertained on the question before them. Whatever errors the Board of Trade might have fallen into, he certainly believed that their opinions had been honestly adopted; but when gross errors of the facts in this particular case were alleged against them, he thought an opportunity ought to be given to the parties
 15
 Mr. Ward  [who had risen with Lord F. Egerton, but given way] was glad that he had not interposed between the House and the admirable speech of the noble Lord. He merely rose to state in the fewest possible words the reasons of the vote which he should give that night; but first, he might be permitted, as a man who had laboured conscientiously and earnestly for ten years in this cause, to express the heartfelt gratification with which he had heard many of the principles laid down by the right hon. Baronet; it might be permitted to a man who had looked for nothing in his political career but the triumph of truth, to express his joy at seeing the principles he had advocated stated so irresistibly as he felt them to have been that night by the right hon. Baronet; for, whatever the hon. Baronet (Sir R. H. Inglis) might say, the fact was, if the hon. Baronet stood a monument of Protestant consistency, he was also a monument of blindness to the interests the hon. Baronet considered as his own; and notwithstanding the forest of petitions of which the hon. Baronet had spoken, he believed that there was no one in this country who,
 67 68 69
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, he felt more than ever the difficulty of rising to follow his right hon. Friend, because in the present instance not merely was the subject one of pre-eminent importance, but individually he was, as would be perceived by his voice, more unable than usual to address the House. But he trusted to that indulgence which he thankfully acknowledged had never yet failed him, while he endeavoured to meet the proposition of his right hon. Friend who had stated the views of Government on this occasion. His right hon. Friend stated at the close of his speech, as indeed he had stated at its commencement, that considerations of honour and good faith, however much the House might qualify them by the phrase of inconvenient obligations, still compelled them, in subsstance, to take the course which he recommended. On the question, then, of honour and good faith, constituting a contract or compact, must rest the decision of the Committee on the present question. Because, if that construction which his right hon. Friend had placed on the Statutes passed in Ireland, and on the custom which had followed them, were correct, he held that it would be impossible for any one—certainly it would be impossible for himself—to oppose the proposition of his right hon. Friend. It was because he felt a deep and solemn persuasion that there was no obligation in point of honour and good faith—as well as no obligation in the Statute Law
 39 40 41 42 l. Ward: 43 44 "Whereas, by the laws now in force in this kingdom, it is not lawful to endow any college or seminary for the education of persons professing the Roman Catholic religion, and it is now become expedient to endow a seminary for that purpose, be it therefore enacted, &c." 45 l. "That a sum not less than the sum granted by the Parliament of Ireland on an average of the six years preceding the 1st of January 1800, for the internal encouragement of agriculture, and for the maintenance of institutions for pious and charitable purposes, shall be applied for a period of twenty years after the Union to such local purposes in Ireland in such a manner as the Parliament of the United Kingdom shall direct." 46 R. Peel: ad verecundiam, 47 Regium Donum, Regium Donum, 48 Opposition Member: 49 l. l.; "He owned he did not feel flattered—Ireland did not feel flattered—by the importance attached by the right hon. Secretary (now Lord Stanley) to this grant. The amount of it was nothing; and if it were withheld altogether, and he should not mind if it were, the Roman Catholic priesthood could still be as well provided for." 50 51 52
 Sir R. Peel , addressing the Chairman, said:—Mr. Greene, in the course of the last Session of Parliament, I took the opportunity of publicly declaring, on the part of Her Majesty's Government, that it was our intention during the recess to apply ourselves to the consideration of the state of academical education in Ireland. I accompanied that declaration with a distinct intimation that the circumstances and position of the Roman Catholic College of Maynooth should be included in that consideration. I added, that in undertaking the consideration of the state of Maynooth, it was our intention to undertake it in a spirit friendly and not adverse to the institution; and I made that public declaration at that time in order that due notice should be given of the intentions of Her Majesty's Government. I was not unprepared for the demonstration of opinion which has been made this day by the presentation of petitions. I could not look back to the discussions which have taken place in this House with respect to Maynooth, without foreseeing that a proposition for the extension of Maynooth was likely to encounter the risk of great opposition. I could not disguise from myself that many persons entertaining strong religious
 19 20 l. l. l. 21 l. l. 22 l. 23 l. "With sentiments of the most profound respect, we beg leave to state to your Excellency, that the Trustees of the Roman Catholic College of Maynooth have long been struggling under great embarrassments in directing the affairs of that establishment, on account of the inadequacy of its funds to the objects for which it was instituted. We beg to state that, for the purpose of carrying into effect, as far as they could, the benevolent object of the Government in the establishment of Maynooth College, the said Trustees ordered a rigidly parsimonious economy to be observed in the internal administration of the College, which not only reduced the salaries of the Professors and Administrators of it below the usual allowances for respectable clerks, but actually interfered with their comforts and conveniences to a degree unbecoming a public institution for the education of the ministers of religion. So urgent was the necessity of all possible retrenchment in order to compass the essential objects of the establishment, that the president has been frequently obliged to send home the students during the vacation, for
 24 l. 25 l. 26 "We are engaged in an arduous contest; the time calls not only for great fortitude, and an unusual share of public spirit, but for much constancy and perseverance. You are engaged with a Power which, under the ancient forms of its internal arrangement, was always highly formidable to the neighbouring nations. Lately this Power has assumed a new shape, but with the same ambition, with much more extensive and systematic designs, far more effective, and without comparison more dreadful in the certain consequences of its eventual success; it threatens nothing less than the entire subversion of the liberty and independence of every State in Europe; an enemy to them all, it is actuated with a peculiar animosity against these kingdoms, not only as the natural protector of the balance of power in Europe, but also because, by the possession of a legal, humane, and rational freedom, we seem to reproach that false and spurious liberty which, in reality, is an ignominious servitude, tending to extinguish all good arts, to generate nothing but impiety, crime, disorder, and ferocious manners, and to end in wretchedness and general desolation. To guard his people from the enterprises of this dangerous and malignant Power, and for the protection of all civilized society against the inroads of anarchy, His Majesty has availed himself of every rational aid, foreign and domestic; he has called upon the skill, courage, and experience of all his subjects, wheresoever dispersed." 27 "Attached as you are to the general cause of religion, learning, and civilization, I have to recommend to your consideration the state of education in this kingdom, which in some parts will admit of improvement, in others may require some new arrangements. Considerable advantages have been already derived under the wise regulations of Parliament from the Protestant charter schools, and these will, as usual, claim your attention; but, as these advantages have been but partial, and as circumstances have made other considerations connected with this important subject highly necessary, it is hoped that your wisdom will order every thing relating to it in the manner most beneficial, and the best adapted to the occasions of the several descriptions of men which compose His Majesty's faithful subjects in Ireland." "On this subject it is intended that a plan should be submitted for colleges for the education of the Catholic clergy, who are now excluded from the Continent." "My Lords and Gentlemen—His Majesty observes with the highest satisfaction that during the present crisis you have not failed to cherish and maintain the various sources of
 28 29 l., "Mr. Foster rose to move the Resolution for a grant to Maynooth College. The grant in former years, he said, had been 8,000 l. l., l. l. "The Chancellor of the Exchequer (Mr. Percival) said, it was particularly desirable, after the establishment of the connexion of this country with the Irish Catholics since the Union, that the grant of the Irish Parliament should not be diminished. The fact was, that by the Vote then under consideration, that grant was to be extended to a provision for one-fourth more than were educated heretofore. It appeared, besides, that 111 others were educated for the Catholic priesthood in different parts of Ireland." … "On the whole, he thought, that the supply of 361 would be sufficient to meet the demand of the Catholic clergy, and therefore should vote for the proposition of his right hon. Friend." 30 l. 31 32 33 l. l. 34 l. l, l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 35 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 36 l. ex officio 37 bonâ fide 38 "That the Chairman be directed to move the House, that leave be given to bring in a Bill to amend the Acts relating to the College of Maynooth."
 Viscount Howick  said, before the House disposed of that question, they ought to consider the position in which the case rested. On the 19th of July last, the House came to a Resolution requiring that all such Bills or projects should be referred to a particular department of the Board of Trade, before being brought under the
 12
 Viscount Sandon  stated, that on account of the peculiar position in which he stood in relation to the question now under consideration, he hoped he might be excused if he sought an early opportunity for stating the reasons which induced him to give to the proposal of the Government his humble, but earnest, support. He had already stated that, in the first instance, he looked upon the question as one of compact—not, indeed, of narrow, legal, compact, founded upon a definite legal instrument,
 83 84 85 Regium Donum 86 87 l. l. 88
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  begged to ask his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford, who was Chairman of the Committee of Selection for the Appointment of Railway Committees, when that Committee would make any Report to the House?
 Mr. Villiers  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, on what day he proposed to proceed with his measure respecting Maynooth. He did so in consequence of a communication from a numerous body of Dissenters, who had met that morning on this subject, and who wished their opinion to be expressed, that they were anxious that the Bill should not proceed further for a fortnight or three weeks.
 Lord J. Russell : I beg to ask a question of the Under Secretary of State for the Colonial Department, and in doing so, I must preface it with a very few observations on a matter personal to myself. Within the last two hours I have seen a statement, purporting to have been made by Lord Ashburton, with respect to a speech I made in this House. Allow me to say, in the first place, that with Lord Ashburton I have always lived in habits of intimacy and friendship; that friendship began when we were both of the same opinion in politics, and the difference of political opinion which took place has never interrupted the cordiality with which we have always lived together whenever it has been my good fortune to meet Lord Ashburton; and nothing could be further from my wish in the discharge of a public duty than to do anything unkind to the noble Lord. But in the course of a discussion on the Navy Estimates, quite unexpectedly by me, there arose a conversation, which begun with the noble Lord (Lord Palmerston) near me, with respect to the Treaty made by Lord Ashburton. The right hon. Gentleman opposite, the First Lord of the Treasury, having taunted my noble Friend and myself with the ill result of the discussion that had taken place on that subject, I referred to the matter, which I conceived to be accurately stated by me as my recollection served. Now, Lord Ashburton is said to have declared that what I stated must have been entirely a dream and a delusion on my part. It is necessary I should repeal what my statement was to the House. I said that some time before the present Government came into office, seeing that the negotiations had not reached a point at which it was likely that either party would recede from its pretensions, I thought it was
 173
 Mr. Hope  would look for the despatches to which the noble Lord referred, and there would be no objection to their
 174
 Lord J. Russell : What the hon. Gentleman has stated implies that a correspondence took place with respect to this provisional arrangement between Mr. Fox and the Secretary of State.
 Mr. Hope : Yes.
 Mr. Williams  said, he had certainly intended to move the Amendment he had given notice of for the reduction of the Household Troops; but he was bound to confess, that what had taken place in the House that evening had entirely altered his intention. He should not now move any reduction in the Army Estimates; for though he was as anxious that as much economy as possible should be exercised in regard to our standing army, yet if we were threatened with danger from any quarter, or if an attempt was apprehended in the remotest degree, on the part of any Foreign country, to do us an injustice or to invade our rights, he would be the last man to stand in the way of the Government in making efficient preparations for the maintenance of the honour and character of England. He had intended to show that the Army Estimates now proposed so greatly exceeded the same Estimates ten years ago, as to require some explanation, and he should have moved a reduction, but for the circumstances that had that evening transpired. There was, however, one point to which he would call attention—viz., the great cost of the regiments of Life Guards and Foot Guards as compared with the regiments of the line. The total charge for the three regiments of Life Guards and the three regiments of Foot Guards could not be taken at less than 355,069 l. l. l.; l. l., l., l. 211 l. l. 212 l.
 Colonel Wood  thought, as the hon. Member for Coventry had not pressed his
 216
 Mr. Corry  moved that a sum of 1,289,543 l.
 Mr. Williams  thought that persons who were employed for a short time as clerks by captains, and then dismissed, had no claim to support afterwards at the expense of the public; but if they were placed upon the establishment, they then acquired a right to a provison for their subsistence.
 Colonel Wyndham  had no doubt the hon. Member for Bolton had a high opinion of Mr. Mazzini; but he (Colonel Wyndham) should be sorry to be in Mr. Mazzini's position. He had read the correspondence and statements that had appeared on the subject, and he thought Mr. Mazzini, with his talents, should be occupying a proper position in his own country, instead of coming here to do mischief. He had not that high opinion of him that the hon. Member for Bolton entertained, and if the Amendment was pressed to a division, he should vote against it.
 Mr. Sidney Herbert  said, there was no reason why they should have originally suspected that Hong Kong would prove as dangerous to the health of their troops as some parts of the island had proved to be. The mortality formerly averaged as much as 32 per cent.; but by the latest accounts it had materially decreased, and during the last three years it had been less than previously. The letters which had arrived by the last mail expressed the most confident hopes that the sickness had decreased there permanently. With respect to the West India Islands, he might observe that in Jamaica the precaution had been taken of placing the black troops, who were not affected by the climate, in the lower quarters, and removing the white troops to higher positions. In the other West India Islands the mortality had decreased between 1842 and 1844 to one half what it had been before 1838.
 Mr. Sidney Herbert  rose to move the Army Estimates. He could not commence the statement which it was his duty to make, without expressing the satisfaction with which he had witnessed the course adopted by the hon. Member for Coventry, and by the hon. Member who had succeeded him. However extreme on some occasions their views on economy might be, they had on this occasion shown, that those ideas did not interfere with those larger views and better feelings which it became hon. Members to adopt in such circumstances as the present. He should say a few words as to the particular subject adverted to by the hon. Member for Coventry, and then state, as shortly as he could, the changes of detail which would be found in the present, as compared with the last year's Estimates. He believed that the hon. Member, in the calculation which he had made as to the cost of the household troops compared with that of the troops of the line, had been misled by the great mass of detail which would be found in the Army Estimates. Because he found that if they compared the expenses of infantry of the line with these of the soldiers of the Guards—adding to the pay of the officers and men of the former the different allowances to which they were entitled—the contingent allowance, lodging money, &c.—if they were to take the household troops and adopt, with respect to them, the proposition which had been made by the hon. Gentleman the other night, and suppress two regiments of household cavalry, converting them into infantry of the line, the saving effected would only amount to about 62,000 l. 214 l. l.; l.; l. l. l. 215 l. "That a sum not exceeding 2,630,499 l. l., l.
 Mr. Sidney Herbert  said that, with regard to the finances of the Blues, it was true that, owing to the arrangement in 1832 and to other circumstances, the present clothing allowance was found to be quite insufficient. He believed that the clothing allowances of the two regiments of Life Guards was larger than was necessary, and the Blues was less than was required. He hoped that some arrangements might be made as to the clothing allowances of the three regiments of household cavalry, so as to get rid of the inconvenience alluded to.
 Mr. Sidney Herbert  replied that a Committee had been appointed for the purpose of procuring the necessary authority for carrying out the provisions of the Savings Bank Act and the Warrant directed to Her Majesty's troops in India. He begged also to inform the gallant Officer that he had a Bill in preparation authorizing the Commissioners of the National Debt to receive the deposits of Military Savings Banks (which already amounted to 15,000 l.
 Lord A. Lennox  said, that the hon. Gentleman having stated that the Guards had never been on Foreign Service, he begged leave to inform him that such was not the fact, for he had the honour of serving in Portugal with them during the Canning Administration. The hon. Member for Montrose had mis-stated the number of the men belonging to the Guards at 14,000 instead of 5,500. Thus, instead of diminishing the Army, his calculation had added upwards of 8,000 to the number. If, unfortunately, any contest should arise between the United States and this country, the Guards would be the first men sent out to occupy Oregon; and most probably the hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex would go with them, when the hon. Member for Montrose would have another opportunity of being defeated in that county.
 Lord J. Manners  said, that the hon. Member for Wycombe had alluded to a subject of considerable delicacy; and from almost an hereditary feeling for the regiment of Royal Horse Guards, he must express a strong and earnest hope that no miserable feeling of economy would induce Her Majesty's Government to take any steps tending to the degradation of that regiment in the eyes of the country.
 Lord John Russell  said, he had not been aware of the more recent proposals of Mr. Canning, to which the right hon. Baronet adverted, otherwise he should not have omitted to notice them. After what the right hon. Gentlemen had said, he should leave the matter where it was. He had made no Motion—he had carefully abstained from making any Motion; and after what the right hon. Gentleman had stated, he should abstain from making any Motion until the Government were prepared to communicate the necessary information to the House.
 Lord John Russell  said: I do not think that it is necessary for me to make any apology to the House for calling its attention to the important subject of which I have given notice; but I must apologize for the very imperfect manner in which I feel that I shall discharge the duty which I have under-
 179 180 "I shall, on the broad principle which formed the basis and produced the adoption of our Constitution, and not in any narrow spirit of sectional policy, endeavour by all constitutional, honourable, and appropriate means, to consummate the expressed will of the people and Government of the United States, by the re-annexation of Texas to our Union at the earliest practicable period;" 181 "Nor will it become in a less degree my duty to assert and maintain, by all constitutional means, the right of the United States to that portion of our territory which lies beyond the Rocky Mountains. Our title to the country of the Oregon is clear and unquestionable; and already are our people preparing to perfect that title by occupying it with their wives and children. But eighty years ago our population was confined on the West by the ridge of the Alleghanies. Within that period, within the lifetime, I might say, of some of my hearers, our people, increasing to many millions, have filled the Eastern valley of the Mississipi, adventurously ascended the Missouri to its head springs, and are already engaged in establishing the blessings of self-government in valleys of which the rivers flow to the Pacific. The world beholds the peaceful triumphs of the industry of our emigrants. To us belongs the duly of protecting them adequately, wherever they may be upon our soil. The jurisdiction of our laws, and the benefits of our republican institutions should be extended over them, in the distant regions which they have selected for their homes. The increasing facilities of intercourse will easily bring the States, of which the formation in that part of our territory cannot be long delayed, within the sphere of our Federative Union. In the meantime, every obligation imposed by treaty or conventional stipulations, should be sacredly respected." 182 183 184 Hertzlett's Commercial Treaties, "In all other parts of the north-western coasts of North America, or of the islands adjacent, situated to the north of the parts of the said territory already occupied by Spain, wherever the subjects of either of the two Powers shall have made settlements since the month of April, 1789, or shall hereafter make any, the subjects of the other shall have free access, and carry on their trading without disturbance or molestation." 185 Columbia, 186 187 188 189 "There are no less than eighteen settlements or ports in this part of the territory of the Oregon. There are several along the River Columbia. One part called Vancouver, contains a great number of people within a sort of stockade or entrenchment. There is also a farm of 3,000 acres well cultivated. The inhabitants dwell in a village, and are subject to the authority and control of the Hudson's Bay Company." "While they give a better price for their furs, they bargain with the savages more advantageously to the Indians than any other persons can do for the manufactured goods and various articles they sell." "The Hudson's Bay Company have done every thing possible to prevent such transactions on the part of the agents of their Company with the Indians with whom they are concerned. And although they have in their stores large quantities of rum, they are not permitted to be sold to those savages. When a ship came into Columbia laden with spirits, the Company at once bought the whole cargo, in order to prevent the degradation and demoralization of the Indian character by the immoderate and excessive use of these spirits, which has been the case formerly." 190 191 192 193
 Mr. Cumming Bruce  was desired by a large religious community to express their anxious hope that all further proceedings would be stopped until the Bill had been before the country for a longer time.
 The Lord Advocate  said, it was perfectly correct that in Committee on the Bill in question, at a late hour, and when there was no very large attendance of Members, the clause alluded to had been introduced. But the supporters of the Bill were not to be blamed if the House happened to be thinly attended at the time; and with respect to the clause itself, he had only to say that a similar provision had been introduced into the English Act. The clauses proposed were similar to those in all former Railway
 170
 Mr. Labouchere  said, he wished to ask a question of considerable importance with regard to the made of transacting business in that House. When the Railway Clauses Consolidation Bill for Scotland was before the House, he was assured that the learned Lord Advocate allowed a clause to be introduced of a very important description, at a very late hour at night, with but a very small attendance of Members present, and without any previous notice of the clause having been given to the House. The clause was to the effect that in every future railway to be constructed in Scotland, the Bill for such railway should contain a clause guaranteeing an indemnity to landed proprietors in Scotland for the loss by any turnpike road which may be affected by that railway. He believed the principle of the clause was one which had excited considerable attention among the public; but without offering any opinion as to the propriety of the clause or otherwise, he thought it was wrong that a Bill of which a Member of the Government had charge, should have a clause of such a nature introduced under the circumstances he had stated, not by the learned Lord himself, but by another Member of the House in his presence, without any previous notice of the clause having been given to the House. He wished to ask the learned Lord Advocate whether the facts were such as he had stated?
 Dr. Bowring  could not allow this discussion to close without bearing his testimony to the character of Mr. Mazzini, which had been so unjustly attacked on a former evening by the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir James Graham). He had known Mr. Mazzini for many a long year; he knew his position, and he knew, too, the feelings of affection and confidence felt towards him by all who knew him. Mr. Mazzini had never approached any person in this country without leaving the most favourable impression as to his high intellect, and pure and unspotted morality. He had struggled much, he had suffered much, and had devoted the whole energies of his mind to one great object—the redemption of his country. He might be a dreamer—he might be (though he hoped he was not) a mistaken enthusiast—but he was one of those who believed that the country that gave him birth was destined to something better and happier than her present position; and having come to this country, having heard of and witnessed the advantages and the blessings of its free institutions, his mind became filled with hopeful aspirations for the time when his own country should enjoy such institutions as ours. Who could blame him, or impute it to him as a crime, if he did believe that his own Italy must ere long also be free? It was impossible that Mr. Mazzini could have contemplated crime — the idea of assassination never could have entered into a mind so elevated and so pure. Was it charitable—was it just—of the right hon. Baronet to traduce the character of an absent man? He (Dr. Bowring) recollected well the excitement occasioned in the House when the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government attacked the hon. Member for Shrewsbury in reference to the imputations he had thrown out against an absent and an innocent man; and yet the right hon. Baronet's Colleague—the Home Secretary—knowing nothing of Mr. Mazzini (for if he had known him, he would never have accused him), did not hesitate,
 207
 Colonel Rawdon  drew the attention of the House to the fact that Mr. Francis Moore, brother of the late Sir John Moore, had for many years voluntarily relinquished a pension of 800 l.
 Colonel Rawdon  believed the Motion of which he had given notice ought to take precedence of the Vote then before the House. The Motion was, "That he would, on Vote 2, in Committee on the Army Estimates, make inquiry as to the health of the troops in Hong-Kong and the West Indies; and as to the success of the encampment system." He should not have called the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to these subjects, were it not that he had seen a letter from Canton, dated in September last, in which it was stated that Hong-Kong was then in its worst state, and that the dead were buried in the most unceremonious manner. In some instances the troops were stationed in paddy ground, and he believed they were also harassed by unnecessary guards on parade. He had also to allude to Demerara, where out of two companies of soldiers no less than twenty men, including three sergeants, died in a few months. He would also wish to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to the condition of the troops in the other West India Islands, and likewise to the system of encampment, which, he believed, required improvement. He would wish to ask whether the black regiments might not be increased, and the white soldiers in the West Indies be used only as a reserve force? Also, whether it might not
 217
 Mr. Hume  strongly hoped the Government would be very cautious in any reductions which they might attempt to make in the expenses of troops serving in China and Hong-Kong. They had already had instances of insubordination created by such attempts. In those stations the expenses were very considerable; and it could not be expected that one corps could serve with another, while that second corps received a double allowance of payment. Where there was an equality of danger, there ought to be an equality of remuneration. He hoped, therefore, that the Government would not listen for one moment to any proposition for reducing the allowances to which the troops serving in China were entitled, in a station where they were exposed to so much of expense, of danger, and of disease. He might also take that opportunity of observing that he objected to the number of troops serving in Ireland. He was glad to find that the Government were taking steps to do justice to that country, and he hoped, therefore, that the present military force maintained there would not be much longer required.
 Mr. Hume  thought that his hon. Friend had acted quite rightly in abstaining from pressing on the proposition of which he had given notice. The military force of the country was now on a war establishment, and he trusted the Army was large enough to prevent the need for increase, in case of actual war. He objected to the system of favouritism, kept up by the footing upon which the Guards were placed. The expense, per man, of the Guards, was still, within a few pounds, what it was in 1821. More regiments were given to officers of the Guards, than to all the officers of the line. There ought to be no pet corps, no favourite men; every regiment of the line ought to take its tour of duty at the Palace, as was done in the military monarchy of Prussia. The conduct of Lord Ellenborough in India, in his mode of forming his body-guard of the most meritorious officers and men, had been highly creditable, and had given great satisfaction. The time was coming when the people of this country would call for a reduction in the expense of our military establishments, now between 7,000,000 l. l., 213
 Mr. Hume  had spoken of despatches which had been referred to by a noble Lord in another place, and which had not been laid before that House. It was only fair that they should be laid on the Table.
 Mr. Hume  agreed with the right hon. Baronet that the subject was exhausted; but was glad that an opportunity had been given for the explanation of the right hon. Baronet as to what he understood by Ministerial responsibility. For his part, he was sorry the question had been mooted at all; for he believed it had damaged the character of our Government functionaries all over the world. The only point now was, whether under the provisions of any Act of Parliament the Minister had the power of issuing general warrants for the opening of letters; and his hon. Friend wanted to have a copy of any warrant that had been issued in regard to his letters, in order that that question might be tried in a court of law and decided. He really thought that was a most reasonable request, and one that the right hon. Baronet might fairly have conceded. He could assure the right hon. Baronet that the question would not be settled in the public mind, until an opportunity should have been afforded of trying that point. As his object was to see the document, he must, if his hon. Friend should go to a division, divide with him. He admitted that the right hon. Baronet had made every explanation and given every satisfaction to his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury, so far as his personal character was involved.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that it was quite obvious, from what had been stated by a noble Lord elsewhere, that he was in possession of five despatches on this subject, which had not been laid on the Table of that House. He hoped the whole would be produced.
 Captain Bernal Osborne : After the speech of the hon. Member for Bolton—which, as a Member of that House, and a friend of Mr. Mazzini's, did him honour, in contradistinction to the speech of the hon. and gallant Member who last spoke, and who knew nothing about that Gentleman—he would put it to the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, whether, after coming down the other night with those trumped-up charges from certain newspapers which he brought down with him, and which he read—though he ought to have known that the statements contained in them were not true, and though he stated that Mr. Mazzini had never endeavoured to clear his character from the accusations
 208
 Captain Bernal Osborne  rose merely for the purpose of protesting against the allegation of the hon. and gallant Member opposite, that a Motion for the abolition of the household brigade was revolutionary. He should also beg to state that he totally dissented from the observations which had fallen from the hon. Member (Mr. Williams), to the effect that the troops of the line viewed the household regiments with any invidious feelings. He was confident that no such invidious feeling existed either among the officers or men. He did not consider that the household troops were maintained in order to keep down revolution; but it was of the highest importance to have so fine a body of men as the Guards always ready to be sent to any of their Colonies in which disturbances should take place. It appeared that this gallant fine corps had been reported to be in a state of bankruptcy. He wished the right hon. Gentleman would turn his attention to the
 218
 Captain Bernal Osborne  said, that he highly approved of the gallant Officer's suggestion. The grant proposed was too small to be refused. He would recommend that veterinary surgeons should be included in the observations of the hon. and gallant Gentleman.
 Mr. Monckton Milnes  was also desirous that no division should take place; but adhering, as he did, to the constitutional view of the question, he must, if the hon. Member divided, vote with him. He had never yet heard any answer to the question, why a warrant was not to be considered as a public document, to be produced when required for public purposes.
 Mr. Estcourt  said, he was glad to have that opportunity of explaining to the House that if blame were to be attached to any quarter for the delay, it certainly did not lie with the Committee over which he had the honour to preside. The 20th of March, the day when the House separated for the recess, was the earliest day on which the Committee of Selection could become possessed of the First Report of the Classification Committee, and before they got that Report it was impossible that they could have taken any steps for the appointment of the Committees on Railways. He hoped the House would
 169
 Mr. Milner Gibson  wished to ask a question of some importance of the right hon. Baronet on the subject of the present state of our relations with the Brazils. It was well known that our commercial Treaty with that country expired in the month of November last. Under the provisions of the Treaty British subjects residing in the Brazils were entitled to certain privileges, which were not possessed by the Brazilians, in reference to the disposal of their property by will, the English Consul taking care that in the event of the death of a British subject his property went to his heirs. The commercial Treaty expired in November last; and it was the general opinion that the privileges which had been enjoyed by British subjects had expired with it. A case had recently arisen in which considerable alarm had been felt as to the disposal of the property of British subjects dying in the Brazils, or dying in this country, and leaving property in the Brazils. He wished to ask the right hon. Baronet, first, if the Government had taken the matter into their consideration? Secondly, if Mr. Hamilton had made any communication to them on this subject? And thirdly, if he could hold out any hopes that the same privileges would be continued to British subjects in the Brazils which they had enjoyed previously to the expiration of the Treaty?
 Mr. Wakley  rose to move, in pursuance of the terms of his Notice,—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, that She will be graciously pleased to give directions, that there be laid before the House, a Copy of any Warrant or Warrants sent to the Postmaster General by any Secretary of State, directing the detaining or opening of any Letter or Letters addressed to or written by Thomas Slingsby Duncombe, Esq., a Member of this House." 202 203
 Mr. Ewart  was desirous of making an inquiry on a subject on which he had troubled the right hon
 177
 Sir C. Napier  admitted that it was extremely difficult to make any material arrangement on this subject; but he did not see any difficulty in the Admiralty appointing clerks after they had passed their examination, and then holding them responsible. He did not think the captain would have any objection to the Admiralty appointing clerks in this way, provided the clerk was held responsible.
 Sir C. Napier  wished to ask a question of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department. He had seen a letter in the public papers from M. Mazzini, in which he declared positively that he had had nothing to do with signing any warrant or order for the assassination of Emiliani and others, as was stated the other night by the right hon. Gentleman. That letter stated that it was proved before the proper tribunal that such order was a forgery, and that M. Mazzini was not at the place where it was alleged that this order was given. He wished then to ask the right hon. Baronet whether he still maintained this charge against M. Mazzini; and if he did not, whether he would follow the example of the hon. Member for Shrewsbury, who made an apology for an unfounded accusation against this individual as publicly as he made the accusation? He believed that no Englishman would tolerate a charge of being an assassin. Now M. Mazzini was a foreigner, and they were as much bound to make reparation to him in case of a wrong as to a native of this country.
 Sir G. Cockburn  admitted that many of these clerks were in a hard position; but it was very difficult to apply a remedy. In the first place, as the gallant Officer was aware, it was a principle of the Naval Service to allow the captain of a ship to choose his own clerk. He was the captain's instrument, who was answerable for his conduct. The captain's clerk, in short, was not the servant of the Admiralty at all: he followed the fortunes of the captain, if he changed his ship; therefore the Admiralty had no direct control over those clerks. Clerks that had passed, the Admiralty had some hold upon: they were now borne on the list of the Navy; and there were several points on which he hoped that the Admiralty would be able to ameliorate their condition. If they were to say that none should enter the Navy as clerks but through the Admiralty, as the hon. and gallant Officer wished, he was not so sure that the result would be satisfactory in all respects. He believed no class was so much sought after in the Navy as this. Such extensive alterations as were suggested, could not be made on account of the number of applications.
 Sir G. Grey  wished to ask the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department a question respecting a Bill on the subject of Charitable Trusts. At the commencement of
 172
 Captain Pechell  wished to call the attention of the Committee to the situation of captains' clerks in the Navy. They were called upon to perform eminent and important services, and they received for those the most paltry pay. They had scarcely any hope of advancement, and having no rank in the Navy were subordinate to the smallest midshipmen or the lowest officer, although they messed with mates and midshipmen. The pay was now but 56 l. l.
 Captain Pechell  said, what he wished was, that this class of persons should be made respectable, taken from the list, and rewarded with a modicum of 2 s. d.
 Sir Howard Douglas  said, that he entirely concurred with the hon. and gallant Member; and that, in fact, he (Sir H. Douglas) had embraced that class of officers in his minute of this case; he had, however, he feared, omitted to state it, and thanked the hon. and gallant Member for what he had said.
 Sir Howard Douglas  rose to put a question to the right hon. the Secretary at War upon the subject of the Military Savings Banks—an institution which he was instrumental in introducing into the service, by what he said in the House on a former occasion, in Committee on Army Estimates, in 1842; and which soon after were established by his right hon. Friend, now Governor General of India, to whom the service and the country were so deeply indebted. He rejoiced to learn from the Parliamentary Papers lately circulated, the progress making by these institutions: there were now about two thousand soldiers contributors in Regimental Savings Banks. His right hon. Friend was aware that these institutions were not yet established in the Queen's Regiments serving in India; where, perhaps, the objects
 223
 Sir Howard Douglas  rose to call the attention of the Committee to the subject of which he had given notice. He said, if this were a case of complexity or difficulty, he should certainly abstain from calling the attention of his right hon. Friend the
 219 s. s.; s. d. s. d. s., s.; s.; l. s. s. d., 220 s.; s.; l.; l. s. d. s. d., s. d.; s. 221 l. s. d. s. d s., s. d. 222
 Sir James Graham  observed that it had
 204 205
 Sir James Graham  was really at a loss how to answer the question of the hon. Member. In the early part of the present evening, another hon. Gentleman, without notice, had put a question to him on the subject; and being without notice, and having had no opportunity for consideration or inquiry, he had felt bound, by a regard for truth, to state explicitly at the moment what he did. If more time had been given him to reflect, he might not have had so unequivocal an impression resting on his mind; but the impression he had was, that doubts still hung over the transactions referred to, so far as Mr. Mazzini was said to be implicated in them. He had presented to the House no trumped-up stories; but had stated fairly and truly transactions that had come to the notice of the Government. [Mr.  Bernal Osborne: Moniteur? 209
 Sir James Graham  replied, that he had seen the draft of the proposed Bill, and he hoped that it would be shortly produced.
 Sir J. Graham  regretted that the hon. and gallant Officer had not given him notice of his intention to ask this question. He should have thought that when the gallant Officer considered the nature of the question, that he would have done so. But, as he had not done so, he would at once answer it, and state the impression which had been produced on his mind. He had seen the letter of Mr. Mazzini to which the gallant Officer referred; and last night, incompliance with the wish of the hon. Member for Finsbury, he had laid upon the Table papers and despatches having reference to M. Mazzini between the years 1833 and 1844, and bearing on his statement. The House would recollect that when he made the statement to which the gallant Officer referred, he stated distinctly to the House, and he had fixed the attention of the House to what he then said—he stated that what he had to say with respect to the past conduct of Mazzini, was not founded on official documents, but on the authority of a newspaper circulated in France at the time, and which he then held in his hand, and from which he read
 171 Moniteur Westminster Review
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that in consequence of the Resolution which was agreed to in Committee last night, and which was afterwards reported to the House, Mr. Greene was ordered to bring in a Bill founded on that Resolution. The Bill, which had already been prepared, was then presented, and read a first time, and ordered to be read a second time on Friday next. On that day it was his intention to move the second reading of the Bill.
 Sir R. Peel  had not understood the observations of the hon. Member for Montrose. When the noble Lord referred to these papers he was not aware that the noble Lord had referred to documents read elsewhere before he gave an answer. When he said that the papers asked for by the noble Lord should be produced, it must be considered that he meant, if there was no public objection, for he personally had no objection.
 Sir R. Peel  had no objection to produce these despatches, if it were found that no inconvenience would result to the Public Service. But as the matters in dispute had been settled by negotiation between this country and the United States, he did not see any public object that could be served by the production now of despatches relating to the very eager and grave contentions which took place during the pendency of the disputes. But whatever was necessary for the satisfaction of the noble Lord should be produced.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that this was a most important question, and he could not say much more than he said on the former occasion when he was questioned on the subject. The English Minister had proceeded to Buenos Ayres; and he, with the Minister of France, would exercise all their influence to put an end to the war in those countries. He believed that the Representatives of England and France would adopt such steps as would insure the restoration of tranquillity. With respect to the protection of British property, there was now, or there would shortly be, a British force in the River Plate of six ships of war; this force would be sufficient to protect British property. With respect to the schools, the
 178
 Sir R. Peel  said: Sir, I cannot be surprised, and I must say I cannot complain, that the noble Lord should have taken this opportunity of delivering the sentiments which he has expressed on the present occasion. I think the noble Lord has justly defined the limits within which it is wise to introduce in a popular assembly, and pending the negotiation of measures materially affecting the important interests of two great nations—he has justly defined, I say, the rule which Members of Parliament should lay down to themselves in the exercise of their privileges. While negotiations are pending, through the means of persons regularly constituted with a distinct authority for that purpose, unless there be plain reasons for the exercise of their right, it is politic to abstain from the exercise of free discussion in popular assemblies upon topics of this description. It is so easy to excite public feeling in such assemblies, that, unless there be grave and cogent arguments for the contrary course, it is better to leave such matters to the discretion of those who are entrusted with the care of the honour and the interests
 194 J. Russell 195 196 "Since the closing of your last Session, a negotiation has been formally entered upon between the Secretary of State, and Her Britannic Majesty's Minister Plenipotentiary and Envoy Extraordinary, residing at Washington, relative to the rights of their respective nations in and over the Oregon Territory. That negotiation is still pending. Should it, during your Session, be brought to a definite conclusion, the result will be promptly communicated to Congress. I would, however, again call your attention to the recommendations contained in previous Messages, designed to protect and facilitate emigration to that territory. The establishment of military posts at suitable points upon the extended line of land travel, would enable our citizens to migrate in comparative safety to the fertile regions below the Falls of the Columbia, and make the provisions of the existing Convention for the joint occupation of the territory by subjects of Great Britain and the citizens of the United States more available than heretofore to the latter. These posts would constitute places of rest for the weary emigrant, where he would be sheltered securely against the danger of attack from the Indians, and be enabled to recover from the exhaustion of a long line of travel. Legislative enactments should also be made which would spread over him the ægis of our laws, so as to afford protection to his person and property when he shall have reached his distant home. In this latter respect, the British Government has been much more careful of the interests of such of her people as are to be found in that country, than the United States." "She has made necessary provision for their security and protection against the acts of the viciously disposed and lawless; and her emi-
 197 "TO THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES. "In answer to the Resolution of the Senate of the 11th of December, 1844, requesting the President to lay before the Senate, if in his judgment that may be done without prejudice to the public interests, a copy of any instructions which may have been given by the Executive to the American Minister in England, on the subject of the title to and occupation of the territory of Oregon, since the 4th day of March, 1841; also a copy of any correspondence which may have passed between this Government and that of Great Britain, or between either of the two Governments and the Minister of the other, in relation to that subject since that time—I have to say, that in my opinion, as the negotiation is still pending, the information sought for cannot be communicated without prejudice to the public service. I deem it, however, proper to add, that considerable progress has been made in the discussion, which has been carried on in a very amicable spirit between the two Governments; and that there is reason to hope that it may be terminated, and the negotiation be brought to a close within a short period. I have delayed answering the Resolution under the expectation expressed in my Annual Message, that the negotiation would have been terminated before the close of the present Session of Congress, and that the information called for by the Resolution of the Senate might be communicated. "JOHN TYLER. " Washington, Feb. 198 199
 Sir R. Peel  replied, that it often happened that the merchants of Liverpool and Manchester received earlier intelligence of matters of this nature than was received by the Foreign Office. The Government had not received any account of the transaction to which the hon. Gentleman referred; but he would make this general statement, that by the Treaty which expired in 1844, on the death of any British subject in the Brazils the administration of his effects devolved upon the British Consul, and not upon the Brazilian authorities. Her Majesty's Government had made a proposition to the Brazilian Government on the subject of the Treaty, and that stipulation was a part of the proposal which they had made.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he would on a future day state whether the despatches could
 176
 Viscount Palmerston  said: Sir, I quite agree with the the right hon. Baronet that it would not be now expedient for Members of this House to pursue the sub-
 200 201
 Viscount Palmerston  did not think that the answer which the right hon. Baronet had given to his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose on the subject of the extracts from the despatches which had been read by Lord Ashburton in another place was altogether satisfactory. He did not know exactly the extracts to which his hon. Friend had alluded; but from what he had heard he understood that Lord Ashburton had read, in his place in the House of Lords, some extracts from certain despatches, for the purpose of showing that some statement that had been made by a Member of that House was erroneous. Now he would assume this to be the fact; and he would ask, when did Lord Ashburton get these despatches which were written to or from him? He must have procured them either as a ne-
 175
 The Chanctllor of the Exchequer  said,
 260
 Mr. Stafford O'Brien : The hon. Member for Manchester had given not only a slight interruption to business, but some little sketch also of the future plans and schemes of the Anti-Corn Law League; for it was evident that, having been unsuccessful for seven years in endeavouring to effect the repeal of the Corn Law, they were now going to try what they could do by attacking the Church and the Court. Wishing them success on this occasion—hon. Gentlemen too often committed the error of cheering too soon—wishing them success in their future undertaking equal to that which had attended their past exertions, he might be permitted to observe that, though the hon. Member for Manchester had announced himself as a prophet, he could not as yet declare himself to be the prophet of a fulfilled prediction. He said that the agricultural constituencies were disappointed, and wearied and disgusted with their Members. But he had not brought forward one single proof in support of the assertion. He had simply alluded to one letter in a "country newspaper." Did not the elections that took place as vacancies occurred in the country representation show distinctly whether or not those constituencies were at all inclining towards the policy or the principles of the Anti-Corn Law League? Did the elections to fill up vacancies in Kent or Wiltshire prove that the farmers were disposed to believe that the system of protection ought to be abandoned, and free trade prevail in its stead? He had come down for the purpose of opposing the Motion of his hon. Friend (Mr. Bankes), and he must say that his intention was not altered by the speech of his hon. Friend. His hon. Friend had alluded to several Bills that had not yet gone into Committee; and had taken the extraordi-
 277
 Sir T. Acland : I do not recollect my right hon. Friend attributing such motives as that supposed to the class to which I belong. [Sir  R. Peel: 294
 Mr. Williams  did not see why an auctioneer should be called upon to pay a license duty, any more than those classes of shopkeepers which were now exempted from it. The Government, by the measure they proposed, in fact abolished the
 298
 Viscount Duncan  thought it desirable that the Chancellor of the Exchequer should consent to give the House such a return as that suggested by the hon. Member for Kendal.
 Lord Worsley  thought the judgment of the public would be a sufficient guarantee for the honesty of auctioneers, as if they did not conduct their business with integrity they would not be employed. The duly proposed by Government would press very hardly on those engaged in the business.
 Lord John Russell  said, that his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose appeared to him to have mistaken the nature of the vote which they were about to give. He stated that they were about to record their votes with respect to a question of county rates. Now, as he understood it, there was nothing in the matter relating to county rates, nor, should the present proposition be rejected, would they in any way be pledged to take any step in reference to county rates. The question was this. The Government came forward, and, by the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury, and the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, proposed the remission of certain duties. The House had agreed to several of these; they had sanctioned the remission of the duty upon cotton wool and upon glass; and it was now proposed to remit the auction duty, the abolition of which, according to the statement of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, would reduce the surplus they had in hand to 90,000 l. 289 l., l. l. l. Gladstone; 290 l. l., l.,
 Mr. Hawes  seconded the Amendment. It was true that this duty would fall
 297 l.
 Mr. Hawes  asked whether the right hon. Gentleman had considered the brokers in the city of London, and other great commercial towns? These brokers belonged to houses where there were several partners. Hitherto it had been the practice for one partner to take out a license, and to sell the commodities which they sold under one single license. He understood the First Lord of the Treasury to have said that the license was to be raised from 5 l., l. l., l.
 Colonel Sibthorp  recommended the abolition of the duty on fire insurances.
 293
 Mr. Turner  thought that auctioneers in the country stood in a totally different position from those in London, and that their case ought to be taken into consideration.
 Mr. Bankes  felt that in offering a reply to the statement of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer he was by no means called upon to make out that no benefit would result from the removal of the tax proposed to be remitted, because no tax or impost whatever could be removed without occasioning a benefit to some party. He trusted that he should place himself in the position he wished to occupy on that occasion, by being enabled to satisfy the House that he could propose a greater and more efficient relief, with the same sum of money, by retaining this duty as it stood, for the present at least, and by relieving those who at the present moment were suffering severely by the pressure of a heavy impost. He felt more particularly called upon at the present time to offer this substitute to the House, because with reference to those propositions which now stood before the House for its consideration, and more especially some that were proposed by his right hon. Friend at the head of the Home Office, there were burdens of the most serious nature to be imposed upon the landed interest. He adverted more particularly to those measures which stood for consideration on that day se'nnight—the Bill of his right hon. Friend, by which he proposed to regulate the Fees of Justices' Clerks, and of Clerks of the Peace, and the Parochial Settlement Bill. These measures might, perhaps, deserve, and very probably, from the support which the Government usually received in that House, would receive the sanction of the House. But it was right that they should be aware of the burdens which these measures would inevitably occasion; and he must tell his right hon. Friends that they would place the agricultural Members in rather an unfair and invidious position, if, when they proposed measures which the agricultural Members wished to support, they felt bound from circumstances to resist them on the ground of the inability of their constituents
 261 262 263 264 "In some parishes, as for instance in a parish in this neighbourhood, the levy of poor rate, including of course, county rate, is felt as a great burden by the poor. The land in the parish being much of it in the hands of small proprietors has been used for building cottages on, and a great many dwellings for labourers and poor mechanics and tradesmen have been erected there. The parochial authorities, under the direction of the vestry, always apply to the magistrates for those poor persons inhabiting those small tenements to be excused from the poor rate if they belong to the parish; but if they belong elsewhere they do not, and the payment of the poor rates falls very heavily on some so situated. Last week, an old blacksmith, who rents one of those tenements at 5 l. s. s. d. s. s. 265 266 "That the condition of the market, during the early part of the last month, continued to preserve its vigour, and that full prices had been maintained—that within the last fortnight, however, a marked change had taken place, and that a dulness, with a drooping aspect as to prices, had succeeded—and that this alteration was attributable to several causes, amongst which, as respected home consumption, might be mentioned, the increased deterioration in the condition of the agricultural population. 267 268 l. l. l. 269 270 l. l., 271
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose to bring forward his measure for the repeal of the Auction Duties. He said, after the full statement which had been made by his right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Treasury upon the subject, when he made his financial statement to the House, and after the explanation his right hon. Friend had given in reference to the evil consequences of those duties, which were contained in the Report of the Commissioners of Excise Inquiry, he should, under ordinary circumstances, have felt himself exempted from the necessity of troubling the House any further upon the subject; but inasmuch as his hon. Friend the Member for Dorsetshire had intimated his intention of taking the sense of the House upon the proposition, it became his duty to state to the House the reasons which had induced the Government to recommend the total
 255 l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. 256 l. l. 257 s. 258 l. l.; l., l. 259 l. l. "That it is the opinion of this Committee that all the Duties of Excise now payable in respect of Sales by Auction, and on Licenses to be taken out by Auctioneers, shall cease."
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  contended that it was impossible to remit the duty altogether, as the hon. Member for Coventry wished. Sale by auction was particularly liable to be abused and turned to purposes of deception. It was necessary, therefore, to have some check, as a security for the respectability of persons who were engaged in this occupation.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  opposed the Motion, and expressed his suspicion that his hon. Friend's proposal would go substantially to increase the duty. But, independently of this, he did not think that the British manufacturer needed any such allowance as his hon. Friend proposed. Belgian glass could be imported at the rate of 1½ d. s.
 Mr. Labouchere : I must say, the hon. Baronet has introduced a degree of heat into this discussion which does not appear to me to be warranted. I confess I understand the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Treasury exactly as my hon. Friend the Member for Stockport interpreted his words. I understood him seriously and gravely to remind his supporters, (and if his meaning was jocular it was never more completely concealed,) if they voted against the remission of this duty, they would run the risk of having the protection of butter and cheese endangered. Now, that was not only one of his arguments, but it was the most powerful he used in the course of his speech. The only reason I was astonished at such an appeal was, that it contrasted strangely with the explicit declaration made by the right hon. Gentleman some time since, when he said that the taxes on butter and cheese were objectionable, and that nothing prevented his taking them off but the state of the Revenue. Such is the frail tenure on which hon. Gentlemen opposite hold their "protection." It is very easy to bring forward many and just charges against the duty on auctions, but
 295
 Mr. Warburton  said, that 10 l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  objected to so large an amount. He should move, as an Amendment, that the sum required for auction licenses should be 7 l. s. l. s.
 Mr. Hume  observed that he was unwilling to go to a division without stating a point in respect to which he thought that the right hon. Gentleman the late Chancellor of the Exchequer was in error. The question before the Committee had nothing to do with the tax upon soap. The Motion they had to entertain was, whether the repeal of the auction duties should be refused, and the surplus applied in payment of the county rates. Yes, that was the question. The right hon. Gentleman said that the soap tax was a bad one. He quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman. In fact, he defied him to point out a good tax. But the question was this. Here was a tax proposed to be repealed—had it any one of the qualities which a tax ought to have? He defied the right hon. Gentleman to point out a worse tax—worse in any respect. Another point which he wished to urge was this. He objected to par-
 288 d.
 Mr. Hume  moved for a Copy of the Draught Act of the Legislative Council in Calcutta for altering the Import Duties, published in the Government  Gazette
 Mr. Hume  hoped the right hon. Baronet would consent to the reduction of the duty, and felt bound to take the sense of the House on the question. Would the right hon. Baronet say 10 l.
 Mr. Montagu Gore  was in favour of the measure as proposed by Government. The tax was one pressing heavily on the subject. It would be recollected that the duty on the sale of land principally fell upon the vendor, who was often necessitated to sell, and not upon the buyer, who was never compelled to purchase.
 Mr. Cobden : The appeal of the right hon. Gentleman to the agricultural Members is certainly anything but flattering. He says, "If you vote for the Member for Dorsetshire, there will be a surplus of 300,000 l., s. s.
 Mr. Spooner  rose, pursuant to notice, to move that the repeal of the protective duties on glass, instead of taking place immediately on the passing of the measure, should not come into operation till April the 5th, 1846. It was unfair to the glass manufacturers, who had large stocks upon which they had paid both Customs and Excise duty, to remove their protection, and subject them to competition with the foreign article, before they had time to dispose of what they had on hand. Though it was his opinion that the glass manufacturers of this country had no cause to fear the ultimate effects of competition, they would be seriously injured by being suddenly exposed to it. One new and important branch—the manufacsure of sheet glass—might be ruined if it were subjected to this sudden struggle. It should be remembered that the English manufacturer, besides paying the Customs duty, had also to pay an Excise duty from which the foreign importer was exempt, and the proposal of Government would, in effect, give 25 per cent. advantage to the latter. No doubt could be entertained that the removal of the duty would confer a great boon on the trade and on the country. But if the manufacturers were at once subjected to the severe competition proposed, the effects of the boon would be thrown away. Capital would be kept out of the trade, and improvement retarded. As they had been compromising to-night—he would consent to a postponement for a shorter period than a year, if his right hon. Friend would not consent to that term. The hon. Gentleman concluded by moving his Amendment.
 Mr. Milner Gibson  stated, that great regret was felt in many quarters at this increase in India of the import duties on British goods. This was the more felt at the present moment, as the trade with India was in a depressed state.
 Mr. M. Gibson  said, that in some of the remarks of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down he, for one, perfectly coincided. His hon. Friends on that side of the House who thought with him in reference to these matters, were no less anxious to see the landlord, the farmer, and the labourer in a prosperous state than the hon. Gentleman who had introduced this discussion; but they differed from him entirely as to the means of promoting their prosperity. That hon. Gentleman had come forward seeking, as he told them, relief for the agricultural industry of the country; and his proposal had, he said, at any rate, the recommendation of being a modest one. Now, he thought he could show the hon. Gentleman that his proposal was not calculated to benefit the agricultural interest; and, further, that it was any thing but a modest proposal. Why, what was the agricultural interest? When they spoke of the landed interest, did they mean the agricultural labourer, or the farmer, or the landed proprietor? If the hon. Gentleman used the expression in reference to the agricultural labourer, he was utterly at a loss to understand how any remission of local taxation could possibly benefit persons of that class. And even if it would, he did not know why that should be the peculiar moment selected in preference to
 272 273 274 275 l. l. 276
 Mr. Gisborne  thought the result of imposing a heavy duty would be, that all the auctioneers with a small business, who were gaining their livelihood by diligent industry, would be compelled to abandon their occupation. Suppose an auctioneer had one sale per week—which was more than the great majority had—his profits would amount to little more than fifty guineas a year; and most of them were obliged to eke out a living by carrying on some other trade besides. It was impossible that such a man could go on paying 7 l. s.
 Mr. F. T. Baring  did not agree with his hon. Friend the Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) that the discussion of the present question was an unnecessary interruption of the public business; on the contrary, he thought it was most proper that they should consider a little the vote they were about to give. This was not to be looked upon as an agricultural debate; but the question to be considered was, whether the particular tax which the Government proposed to take off was, under all circumstances, the best to be remitted? Now what were the circumstances with which they had to deal? To meet a financial necessity, the House had imposed on the country a tax which—whatever opinion hon. Gentlemen might hold of it in preference to other taxes—must be admitted to be a harsh, a heavy, and an unequal tax. From
 278 279 l. l., 280 l.; l. 281 l.; l. l. s., 282 d. l. 283 l.
 Captain Pechell  said, that the subject had been brought forward in the French Chamber of Deputies recently, by M. Estancelin, a representative who look a constant interest in the question as it related to the French fishermen. M. Estancelin expressed his opposition to the Treaty of 1839, as fatal to the interests of France; and in reply to those observations, M. Guizot said:—
 "I found the Treaty concluded—its very date proves it. I endeavoured in the negotiations opened on the subject to remedy the evil. My position was rather difficult, for the Treaty was concluded, signed, and ratified, and it was found necessary to reverse certain clauses thereof, which were in full force. The negotiation ended in the adoption of regulations which have, in a great measure, redressed the grievances complained of by M. Estancelin. Certain clauses of the new Convention will be submitted to the legislative sanction in both countries." 254 "Nous deplorons vivement l'extremité à laquelle nous sommes reduits, nous voudrions marcher tête levée comme le faissaient nos ance but. Il nous faut l'appui positif et efficace du gouvernenient. Nous voulons rendre à notre patrie la pêche nationale dont elle s'est depouillée au profit de l'Angleterre."
 Sir James Graham  concurred with the right hon. Gentleman as to the general principles on which taxation should be reduced, though he differed from him as to the conclusion at which he had arrived.
 284 l. 285 l., l. 286 "It is true that from several quarters we have received a suggestion of a remedy for the evil, by doing away altogether, or very nearly, with the list of exemptions, and by simultaneously reducing the amount of duty. On consideration, however, we are satisfied that such a course cannot, with propriety, be recommended; and that a long list of exemptions, notwithstanding its inconvenience, must, after having been so long recognized as coeval with, and as necessarily attendant upon, this branch of taxation, be considered as an objection inherent in the system itself, and that the only remedy for the evil must be found in the total abolition of the duty." l., l.; "Under these impressions, it is hardly necessary that we should add, as the principal result of our inquiries into this head of revenue, our recommendation that the duty on auctions should be amongst the first of the taxes to be selected for repeal, so soon as circumstances will admit of such a measure. In the mean time, however, and in case this desirable object cannot be at present conceded, we feel further bound to recommend that an immediate revision of the law relating to auctions should take place, with a view to the introduction of several alterations and improvements, which, in our opinion, in accordance with that of some of the leading members of the trade to whom we have above referred, might be adopted with a prospect of advantage both to the trade and to the revenue, so long as that branch of duty shall be permitted to continue." 287 "There are many imposts which demand the attentive consideration of this House. There is one tax immediately affecting the landed interest, (and that part of it which is in the greatest degree distressed,) the revision of which is strongly recommended in the Report of the Board of Excise Commissioners, over which the Treasurer of the Navy presided, and which was adverted to by my right hon. Friend the Member for Tamworth in his speech of last year—I mean, the auction duty. The Commissioners have reported in the very strongest terms that it is a tax of the worst description, pressing hard upon the poor proprietors, who are driven to sell their land for any price it will fetch; and not at all upon the rich, who can afford to wait for a favourable opportunity of disposing of it."
 Sir R. Peel  must express his cordial concurrence with certain of the propositions laid down by the noble Lord. He agreed with him that not a word could be said in favour of the auction duties. The noble Lord seemed inclined to resist the repeal of these duties, but not a single word could he say in their favour. Now he hoped that hon. Gentlemen would keep this declaration in mind. The noble Lord was a high authority, and the admission from him was an important one. There was another position of the noble Lord, in which he also cordially concurred. He thought with the noble Lord that 90,000 l. 291 l. l. 292 l. l.; l. l. l. l.
 Sir R. Peel : By raising the license to 15 l., l., l., l.,
 Sir R. Peel  thought it very unwise to enter into the subject of petitions that were presented to the French Chambers, or to quote speeches which had been made upon the subject in the French Chamber of Deputies.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that since the Act of the British Legislature in 1843, an Act passed for the purpose of carrying the regulations into effect, there had been no modification of the Convention or the regulations.
 Sir R. Peel  apprehended there must be some mistake in the report of the French newspapers with respect to the words used by the Minister. There was a Convention entered into in 1839 between this country and France with respect to the fisheries of the respective countries in the narrow seas; and the Eleventh Article of that Convention provided that certain regulations should be entered into between Commissioners appointed by the two countries. Those regulations were accordingly agreed upon by the Commissioners, and were embodied in an Act of Parliament which passed through the Legislature of this country, and received the Royal Assent in 1843. By the Convention, it was agreed that
 253
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he would undertake to furnish to the House all the information which was necessary to throw light on the subject. Government proposed to remit 300,000 l.
 Lord Ingestre  stated that he had been
 300
 Viscount Jocelyn  said, that there was no objection to produce the draft act of the Council on this subject. He was obliged to the hon. Member for having asked him the question which he did respecting the gallant Officer the Governor General of
 301
 Viscount Palmerston  wished to know if he was to understand from the right hon. Baronet that there had been no modification of the Convention, or of any of the regulations which had been agreed upon by the Commissioners under the Convention?
 Viscount Palmerston  wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Treasury, of which he had given notice. It was stated in the newspapers that the French Minister of the Interior (M. Cunin Gridaine) had announced to the Chambers that he was about to propose a Bill for the purpose of carrying into effect certain modifications which the British Government had consented to in the Treaty which was concluded in 1839, between the two Governments, for regulating the fisheries in the narrow seas. He wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman what these modifications were?
 Lord J. Russell : I agree in the observation of the right hon. Gentleman, that nothing could have been more fairly stated than this case has been by the hon. Member for Finsbury. He has brought it forward as a constitutional question. He has staled the arguments which may be fairly urged for the abrogation of the power at present possessed by the Government for the opening of letters, and has called upon the House to consider whether a legislative enactment for its abrogation may not be passed. I find myself in the situation of neither agreeing
 320 321 322
 Mr. Bernal  agreed with the right hon. Baronet, that there was great difficulty in adopting the Resolutions proposed; for though he would go far to further the object of the hon. Member for Lymington, he could not accede to all the dogmas contained in those Resolutions. With regard to his right hon. Friend's speech—if he meant to say that there was no danger to the public health, arising from the interment of the dead in cities, or within the walls of towns—that was a proposition which the evidence of all medical and scientific men showed clearly was not tenable. He was surprised that the right hon. Baronet should give currency to such a belief and such a doctrine. When his hon. Friend opposite stated the number of burials in the metropolis at 1,000 a week, he did not know whether he included the burials in the cemeteries from the metropolis. [Mr.  Mackinnon: 344
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, that many of the views and opinions which he entertained on the present question had already been so ably and so fully stated by the hon. Member for Lambeth, that he should, in addressing the House, have much difficulty in making the least addition to the force of those remarks which had already been made; and he should have perhaps altogether refrained from occupying the attention of the House, if the noble Lord the Member for Plymouth had not misrepresented, because he had misapprehended, what fell from his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department. The noble Lord charged his right hon. Friend with endeavouring to revive what he called the old vulgar cry about private interests. Now, so far from that being the case, his right hon. Friend did little more than
 353 354
 Mr. Gladstone  regretted that the hon. Member for Kendal had felt it necessary to say that there seemed to have been a want of will on the part of the Government to effect the object of the hon. Member for Manchester. As far as he was concerned, he disclaimed any indifference upon the subject, because he not only thought the object a valuable one, but held distinctly that the parties to whom it was valuable were, first, the public at large, but particularly and especially the agriculturists. He had last year stated that those who congregated in towns to conduct the foreign corn trade, by their extensive information supplied to a considerable degree the want of accurate details; but the farmer enjoyed no such advantage, and suffered from the want of it. As far, then, as the will was concerned, he thought there should be a common desire on both sides of the House to prosecute the object in view. But the difficulties were greater than some hon. Members supposed. He saw no reason why it should not be stated that the object of Lord Sydenham was sought to be attained through an inquiry addressed to the clergy, from some of whom very good answers were received, from some defective answers, and from some none at all. He did not attribute the last two results to a supposition on the part of the clergy that a change was about to be made in the law—but mainly to the fact that they were too much occupied with other matters connected with their sacred functions; and he should be sorry to see them charged with any such office as the collection of agricultural information. He did not blame those who had applied to them; it was a fair experiment, but for a permanent system he considered it highly objectionable. The hon. Member for Cockermouth said that the Government had not shown sufficient zeal in endeavouring to acquire information. He could only say that they had considered, in succession, every class of officer who was  primâ facie 368 369
 Mr. Beckett Denison , for his part, did not think there was any strong objection on the part of Gentlemen connected with the lauded interest to the Motion proposed by the hon. Member for Manchester. At all events, he was certain that no such motives as had been imputed to them for opposing the Motion had any existence. He should be glad to have such returns produced, and he thought they might be obtained without much difficulty or expense.
 Mr. Hawes : While he fully admitted the importance of the subject, was deeply impressed with the conviction that they would be doing very wrong to underestimate the difficulties connected with it, and with which, in taking any legislative step, they would have to contend. He remembered, upon a former occasion, a Bill upon the subject had been introduced; but that measure had been arrested in its progress through Parliament, and he did not now see any symptoms of the probability of more cordial support being given to any measure which might be introduced,
 351 352
 Colonel Sibthorp : Really the idea of any Gentleman presuming to say that a schoolmaster should come round upon your land and survey its productive properties is one which I never expected to hear proposed. Let me catch a schoolmaster on my land—that is all. The only question would then be whether he would
 370
 Mr. C. P. Villiers  considered that the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln had spoken somewhat too plainly, and had only been a little less discreet than other hon. Members around him, who evidently objected to a Motion of this nature on the ground that it was a species of usurpation, very similar to that of a person invading one's cellar, to ascertain what quantity of wine he had got. But he wished to tell the hon. and gallant Member what was the difference between the two cases. The hon. and gallant Member and those about him did not undertake to supply the country with wine; but they did undertake to supply the country with bread, and, therefore, the people were anxious to know what were the means they possessed for supplying them with food. But that was a point of much difficulty; for the hon. and gallant Gentleman and his Friends did not wish to let the country know what was the difference between the supply and demand. But that, was a description of information, nevertheless, which it was most desirable to possess. This he conceived to be the principal reason why hon. Gentlemen opposite and the Government itself, as it would seem, objected to this inquiry. The hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln told the House the other night, that his constituents objected to its being ascertained what was the increased produce of the land they occupied. No doubt they did; for no sooner would the fact be known than their rents would be raised. He did not think the House could depend upon the information obtained by any other means than what was proposed by his hon. Friend (Mr. Gibson); for two important classes were opposed to such an inquiry—the landlords, who were hostile
 371
 Mr. Darby  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Cockermouth, had stated that the hon. Member for Manchester did not want to ascertain the amount of produce. Why, as it appeared to him (Mr. Darby), that was just the very thing that the hon. Gentleman did want. If they went to those who had valued for the Tithe commutation, he believed that they might obtain pretty nearly the value of the land, and the species of crops which it bore at the time when those valuations were made; but he was fully
 365
 Mr. Aglionby  concurred entirely in the view taken by the hon. Member for Manchester as to the importance of procuring accurate information respecting the agricultural produce of the kingdom; and he believed the subject had attracted the attention of the country at large. He certainly should like to see the two letters referred to by the right hon. Baronet opposite, in order that the steps taken by the Government might become known. He must, however, take the liberty to remark that the Government had not done very much, according to what he had heard, to forward the views of his hon. Friend. An application had been made to the Poor Law Commissioners, and through them to the boards of guardians, to get the desired information; but had there been nothing else done? Had any application been made to the Tithe Commissioners, who were probably well qualified to furnish valuable information in some respects? He was quite aware there
 363
 Mr. Warburton  entirely approved of the course which his hon. Friend had taken. He agreed with him that there was no medium, but either to abrogate the practice altogether, or to allow it to remain as at present. Having been a Member of the Committee appointed to inquire into this subject, he must say that, it being admitted the Government were in possession of this power, or, at least, the practice being established on the part of the Secretary of State of opening letters, he must give credit to the British Government generally that for the last twenty-two years the power had been exercised with so much forbearance that on an average only eight warrants for opening letters had been issued in the course of a year. And, whatever the practice of Foreign Governments might be, he thought that foreigners, knowing this was the practice amongst us, would concur with him in this opinion. Something had been said about the authority on which the power of opening letters rested; and he supposed it would be admitted that that practice rested either on the Prerogative, on Common Law, or the Statute of Queen, Anne. There were, indeed, various writs issued by the Edwards and the Henrys on this subject; but if they were examined, it would be found that, with one or two exceptions in the course of a century, they were writs issued by the Crown at the instance of Parliament to search persons coming into or leaving the country, on suspicion that they carried with them Papal bulls or other ecclesiastical documents. Nothing, therefore, could be founded upon that. The Tudors and the Stuarts had issued writs more nearly resembling the present practice; but no person would draw constitutional precedents from those times. As well might it be contended that the examination of prisoners of Slate by torture was legal, because it had been practised by the Privy Council down to the meeting of the Long Parliament; and Fortescue and other writers, who had written in praise of the English laws, because it did not allow of the use of torture, had their names appended to some of the Privy Council warrants, authorizing torture to be used against prisoners of State. Then with
 323 obiter dictum Intelligencer 324
 M. Warburton  was glad that there seemed to be a general concurrence by hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the House, that if the information moved for could be obtained, it would be highly desirable. He could not help thinking that where there was a will a way would be found. His hon. and learned Friend the Member for Cockermouth, had told them that the best source for obtaining the information would be the Tithe Commissioners. Every one knew that under the Tithe Commutation Act, surveys had been made of every parish, and the amount of acreage in each parish had been distinctly ascertained; and that, he thought, would be the first step towards obtaining the information sought for by his hon. Friend. He recollected having been some years ago on a Committee, nominated by the late Lord Sydenham, the proposal before which was, that instead of employing the local country surveyors to rectify all the old surveys, the officers of the Ordnance Survey should be employed in making the corrected surveys. They stated to the Committee what the total amount of that survey would be; and he (Mr. Warburton) believed that if their estimate were contrasted with the actual cost of the survey, as paid by the different parishes, it would be found that in all, not less than 700,000 l. l.
 Dr. Bowring  thought that what was done elsewhere might be done here. There were no less than 12,000,000 of agricultural returns made to the Government of France. In Belgium, their statistical information was also very complete; and he did not see why the valuable facts collected by the Tithe Commissioners
 367
 Dr. Bowring  seconded the Motion. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department had stated that Mr. Mazzini was an unprotected foreigner—that he would inquire into the statements made with respect to that gentleman, and that if he found himself misinformed with respect to him, he would make every reparation to Mr. Mazzini. He was quite sure, from the well-known character of the right hon. Baronet, that he would make the necessary inquiries, and would take the earliest opportunity of making reparation to Mr. Mazzini, if he found that the allegations with respect to him could not be substantiated. Some documents which had relation to Mr. Mazzini had been laid on the Table of the House; and he would ask the right hon. Baronet, if those documents contained the only matter upon which the charge against Mr. Mazzini, of being connected with certain proceedings in France, rested? The only charge contained in the despatch of Sir A. Foster to Viscount Palmerston, was one containing very vague allusions; and he would ask if there were any particular statement to authorize that vague charge? The passage to which he (Dr. Bowring) referred, in the despatch of Sir A. Foster, was as follows:—
 "The Austrian Minister professes to have got hold of a number of letters of instructions from Mazzini, who was expelled from Genoa, and is head of the secret tribunal, author of the atrocious murders lately committed at Rodez." 315
 Dr. Bowring  was afraid that the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary left but little hope for the hon. Member for Lymington. While country after country had felt the necessity of discontinuing the practice of interring
 345 "What are the matters objected to that are of common experience in our burials, when the corpse and attendants have arrived within the churchyard?—In certain seasons of the year, when the mortality is greater than usual, a number of funerals, according to the present regulation of the churchyards, are named for one hour. During last Sunday, for example, there were fifteen funerals all fixed during one hour at one church. Some of these will be funerals in the church; those which have not an in-door service must wait outside. At the church to which I refer, there were six parties of mourners waiting outside. My man informed me, that all these parties of mourners were kept nearly three-quarters of an hour waiting outside, without any cover, and with no boards to stand upon. The weather last Sunday was dreadfully inclement. I have seen ten funerals kept waiting in the churchyard from twenty minutes to three-quarters of an hour. I have known colds caught on the ground by parties kept waiting, and more probably occurred than I could know of. It is the practice on such occasions to say the service over the bodies of children and over the bodies of the adults together, and sometimes the whole are kept waiting until the number is completed. Even under these circumstances, the ceremony is frequently very much hurried." How many are there in some parochial burial grounds to be buried at one time?—Sometimes fifteen." "In the crowded districts is the funeral ceremony often impeded?—Besides the state of the parochial burial grounds, the mode of performing the ceremony is very objectionable, in consequence of the crowd and noise and bustle in the neighbourhood. I have had burials to perform in St. Clement's Danes
 346 l. s. d.
 Mr. Henley  said, that if they acted on the right hon. Gentleman's suggestion, and obtained information by dribbles at first, it might be years before they would arrive at the amount or description of information desired. The suggestion of the hon. Member for Bridport to make an Ordnance Survey of the whole country, would also incur a delay which he thought very unreasonable — particularly as they might be certain that four out of five persons would demand to know for what purpose the information was sought before they consented to furnish it. Statistical information, if true, was, no doubt, very valuable; but if of a doubtful character, was worse than useless; and in the alleged difficulties of obtaining that which was now asked for, free from doubt, he fully believed.
 Mr. Hume  was glad at length to hear from the other side of the House that such a proceeding as this was proper. As to the means, the Tithe Commission was now in course of closing, and as far as it had gone the clergy had taken care that every acre should be upon the map; 9,558 parishes had been already surveyed. The mere surface, however, would be of no use; there must be an annual Report, and some resident agent for the purpose in each parish. At the India House a plan would be found accurately laid down, as there was not a Village in Bengal in which there was not a clerk resident, who kept an account of every foot of ground: upon that the taxation was levied, and the rent calculated, and the produce of each species of grain could be ascertained. In the United States also the late population Returns gave every bushel of corn grown in every village. The time, he hoped, was coming, when we should have such statistics, taken by the aid of the schoolmaster or some other person in each parish.
 Mr. Hume  seconded the Motion. He considered the subject one of great importance; and he waited with some anxiety to see what part the Government would take with respect to it. Nothing, he thought, could be more disgraceful to them in that House than that their time should be engaged in party contests, instead of being devoted, as it ought to be, to the public welfare. In no country in the world—neither in Germany, nor Spain, nor France—was this practice continued. Surely the exposure that had now taken place, the details contained in the letter written by a person on the spot, the knowledge that had been obtained, the evidence of their own Committee, as well as the accurate details given by Mr. Chadwick, must prove the necessity of exertion on this truly important question. He had read over, with great anxiety, the details given by Mr. Chadwick; and having done so, he could not allow himself to think that his hon. Friend would have occasion again to trouble himself on this subject. The Government, in appointing a Commissioner, had excited expectation, which, now that they had information, he was sure they would not disappoint. Let them remember, that whilst they had been occupied in mere party squabbles, inquiries directed by themselves had proved the people in the towns to be living in filth, in squalor, and in misery, that were almost incredible, had they not been so distinctly proved. It was discreditable to them, as a nation of civilized and Christian men, that these things should be. They were shocked at the descriptions of the inhabitants of savage nations putting each other to death; but how much more shocking was it to think that in a civilized country like this—as it had been proved by facts that could not be contradicted nor denied—that by their own ignorance and apathy they were causing the death of thousands of their fellow-citizens — that by their neglect they permitted to be enervated
 336 337
 Mr. Hume  thought the country was indebted to the hon. Member for Finsbury, for the courage and tact he had displayed throughout the discussions of this question. He could not understand how the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland, who had laid down the principle that the power was rather a disadvantage than an advantage, could yet consent to continue that power to the Government. The question ought to be, had they any proof that the practice was of advantage at all? Had it been productive of any public good? He knew of none; he had heard of none. The right hon. Baronet had not alleged that any had been produced. Then, why should they continue the power? He denied that this power was exercised under the Prerogative of the Crown; would the Prerogative fine him 5 l.
 Mr. Borthwick , though disposed to support the object of the Motion, had very great difficulty 'n assenting to the terms of the Resolution. He hoped the terms would be made more general, so as to meet approbation and overcome objections. He thought interments might be effected in London without injuring the health of the people; and he fell bound to oppose the Resolution, which he considered too general. He thought it would have been much better if his hon. Friend had introduced a Bill, because then the House would have had something tangible to deal with.
 Mr. Christopher  said, that he took quite as deep an interest in the subject as the hon. Member for Manchester, and had made some inquiries as to the mode of collecting information respecting the agriculture of the kingdom. He, however, experienced the same difficulty that had been felt last year, in so far as regarded the Resolution before the House: though he was most desirous that every facility should be afforded him to attain his object, he feared the course pursued would not have the desired effect. It might be easy enough to produce returns annually to that House, and pretty accurate returns too of the number of acres of land under cultivation, and also of the particular description of cultivation; but that would form no criterion whatever of the agricultural produce of the country. He had heard it stated that persons who were desirous of speculating in grain could form, by going through the country and looking into the state of the crops before the harvest, a vague conjecture of what the produce would be; but if they were to have Parliamentary Returns laid upon the Table of that House, with the view not only of guiding those who were interested in speculations in foreign corn, but also of letting the farmer know the best time for bringing his grain to market, he should say that unless those returns were accurate, they would do a great deal more harm than good. He had fully expected that his hon. Friend opposite would have furnished them with some means of arriving at the desirable conclusion which he had mentioned, and he thought that his
 364
 Mr. T. S. Duncombe  got up to propose an Amendment, by the desire and wish of
 355 s. s. "To leave out from the first word 'That,' to the end of the Question, in order to add the words 'the practice of Interment within the precincts of the Metropolis and of large Cities, is injurious to the health of the population, and demands the serious attention of Parliament.'"
 Mr. T. Duncombe  was sorry to hear the determination of the right hon. Baronet.
 327 328
 Mr. T. Duncombe  rose, in pursuance of a notice which he had given, to move for leave to bring in a Bill to secure the inviolability of letters passing through the Post Office. He felt that it was a reproach to the Government under which we lived, as well as a reproach to those free institutions which we felt a pride in possessing, that any Member of that House should be under the necessity of bringing forward a Bill, the object of which was to secure the inviolability of correspondence in this commercial country. In submitting this Motion to the House, he should abstain from introducing anything which could by possibility bear a personal or individual application. It was with the system he was at war; and that system he felt it his duty, if possible, to destroy. Whatever Government had originated this assumed power, and whatever cause was assigned for its assumption, he had the highest legal authority for stating that there was no law to justify the exercise of that power. The subject was during the last Session brought before Committees of that House and of the House of Lords. The Committee of the House of Commons had not in their Report stated whether the exercise of this power was legal or not; although it had stated that the law on the subject was the same in 1814 as it had been in the reign of Queen Anne, but had not said what that law was. The Committee of the House of Lords, however, had expressed itself more clearly: it went a step further, and described the terms of the provisions of the Act of the 9th of Anne, c. 10, and stated, that the Act of Parliament of Anne led to the supposition that the power had been fully recognised in the Secretary of Slate, and that from an early period it had been recognised by the Acts of Parliament.
 308 309 310 Laughter. 311 J. Graham: "The Postmaster General having had papers laid before him relating to the gross conspiracy which has existed among certain carriers, and having ascertained that Lang, Bell, and Saunders, have been in the habit of opening the letters of sporting gentlemen, his Lordship is pleased to dismiss them the service." 312 Morning Herald, Morning Herald 313 314 "That Leave be given to bring in a Bill to secure the Inviolability of Letters passing through the Post Office."
 Mr. Milner Gibson  said, it would be in the recollection of the House that he had moved, in the course of the last Session, for certain Returns illustrating the Statistics of Agriculture. Those Returns had for their object to show the number of acres under cultivation, the different kinds of produce raised, and also the total amount of produce in the United Kingdom. They were, he believed, in entire ignorance of the number of acres under cultivation, and of course of the amount
 360 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, representing that, in the opinion of this House, it is desirable to obtain authentic information upon various matters connected with the agriculture of the United Kingdom; that this information is altogether deficient, so that at this time, even the extent of land under cultivation, and the amount of its produce, are subjects only of vague conjecture; that the total absence of all statistical knowledge in reference to this important subject has at various times proved detrimental to the public interests; and praying Her Majesty to devise measures for supplying to parliament from time to time, statements of the breadth of land under cultivation for each species of produce respectively, with the amount of produce derived from the same, together with such information as will exhibit, as far as practicable, a perfect view of the agricultural capability and production of the United Kingdom."
 Mr. Gibson  replied, that the hon. Gentleman complained that he had not suggested a plan whereby to effect the object he wished to attain. He certainly thought it would not have become him to suggest a plan. It was impossible that the House of Commons could go into the details of a plan calculated to effect the object he had in view. It was a much fitter duty for a Committee. But he thought that a plan might be suggested, of sufficient accuracy
 372 "Do you think it would be desirable to have some more accurate statistical information published annually, with regard to the precise quantity of land sown in the different parishes in England with wheat, barley, and oats?" "I cannot conceive a duty more important upon the Government than to ascertain the quantity of food which the public is likely to be supplied with." "If the Legislature were to endeavour to obtain such returns, do you think they could be made with accuracy?" "I am persuaded they could: and it appears to me strange how Parliament can consent to remain in the dark upon a subject of such importance." 373
 Mr. Mackinnon  felt himself placed in rather a delicate situation. He could not produce a Bill without a great deal of trouble and expense, and at every step he should be met, as usual, with technical objections; and told, that he, as a private individual, was not entitled to propose measures to the House; that his details were imperfect and faulty; and his Bill, if he were to bring one in, would share the fate of many others brought in by individual
 356
 Mr. Mackinnon  said: Three years are past since first I called the attention of this House to the practice of interments in large towns. My suggestions were in the outset little attended to, even much laughter was excited: the idea was by many deemed novel, if not visionary; but at length, with some reluctance, a Committee was granted by the House to investigate the question. When the evidence of parties acquainted with the practice of intramural interments was brought before the Committee; when the evidence of medical men, the first in this town, was given, the members of whom the Committee was composed were astonished and shocked at the abominations disclosed; and they came to the unanimous resolution to recommend the abolition of interments within large towns and populous districts. Since that period petitions without number have been presented, and the shocking practices prevalent in the grave yards of the metropolis have appeared in various forms before the public, and excited equal indignation and disgust. It is neither my inclination nor my intention to enter into any statement of the customs of ancient times; I will only observe, that from the time of our Saviour and of the early Christians, until
 331 "The practice of burial in the church or chancel appears to us in many respects injurious, in some cases offensive, in some instances by weakening or deteriorating the fabric of the church, and in others by its tendency to affect the lives or health of the inhabitants. We are of opinion, that in future this practice should be discontinued, so far as the same can be effected without trenching on vested rights." "Resolved "That all interments in towns where bodies
 332 "Amongst other causes of the deterioration of the atmosphere in towns, our attention was called to the practice of interring the dead in the midst of densely populated districts. Instances have been brought before the Commissioners of the great evils arising from the condition of the grave yards in several large towns, Shields, Sunderland, Coventry, Chester, York, &c., and we deem it right to draw attention to the existence of such complaints."
 Mr. F. Baring  was glad to find that the right hon. Gentleman opposite, who had spoken, representing Her Majesty's Government on this occasion, had treated the subject in the way that it deserved from its importance; and as he understood that there was every anxiety on the part of the Board of Trade to obtain such information as they would be able to obtain, he was quite sure that his hon. Friend, as well as he himself, however anxious they might be to procure the information, or however valuable they might consider it, would not attempt to move for information which it would be impossible to obtain. As he had understood his hon. Friend, at first at any rate, he was not at all anxious to have such information as the hon. and learned Member for Sussex shadowed to himself; the only object, as he understood it, was, to ascertain the quantity of land in each parish that was employed in the various species of cultivation. He was perfectly aware that whatever other advantages this country might possess, the difficulty of obtaining statistical information was exceedingly great—more especially he knew, that it was excessively difficult for the Government to procure statistical information concerning agriculture. He remembered that his noble Friend the late Lord Sydenham was very anxious to obtain certain statistical information, merely for the purpose of affording accurate information to the country, and he caused certain letters to be written with the view of obtaining it. There was, however, an impression, he (Mr. Baring) supposed, that Lord Sydenham was anxious to get it for some Corn Law or taxing reason; at any rate he could not get the information he required, nor had he any means of procuring
 366
 Sir G. Clerk  apprehended that the hon.
 361 362
 Sir G. Grey  said, the proper way to proceed would be by Bill, and not by Resolution, and the Bill ought to be proposed by Her Majesty's Government. The difficulties which had been alluded to by the hon. Member for Lambeth formed an additional reason why this question could
 357
 Sir J. Graham  said, he had addressed the House on the subject in the absence of the right hon. Baronet. He deprecated proceeding by Resolution, because it raised false impressions out of doors, whilst no means were taken of pointing out any particular remedy. The right hon. Baronet hoped the Government would bestow attention on this subject. He had bestowed much attention on it, and had directed the attention of Mr. Chadwick to it, who had applied much industrious research to the subject; but the remedy proposed by Mr. Chadwick appeared to him to be entirely inapplicable to the present feelings and wants of society. It was not because this question affected the clergy that his principal difficulty arose. He did not hold the difficulty pointed out by the hon. Member for Oxford to be insuperable. But it was beset by equal difficulties arising from the objections of Dissenting bodies. To almost every Dissenting chapel there was a burial ground attached, in trust for all who worshipped in that chapel; and not only were their pecuniary interests thus involved, but their feelings also. If they determined that Churchmen and Dissenters should not bury in the accustomed places of sepulture, but at a distance from towns, then every poor individual wishing to attend his friend to his long home must forego a day's wages; and in winter he must travel four or five miles from home and back. To attend a funeral would be extremely inconvenient, unless conveyances were provided; and if they were provided, the cost
 358
 Sir J. Graham  said, the hon. Member
 338 339 340 341 342 343
 Sir James Graham : Sir, I will commence the observations which it will be my duty to address to the House by first noticing the questions put to me by the hon. Gentleman who seconded the Motion. Upon a former evening I stated — and stated with accuracy—that until the hon. Member for Finsbury mentioned in this House an article in the  Westminster Review, Moniteur, 316 317 seriatim 318 319
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, that during the eighteenth century the religious part of the polity of England had been treated with great neglect by the Government. The efforts of the Legislature, he thought, should now be directed to extending the parochial system for the living, and also to extending the parochial system for the dead. The inhabitants of parishes should be enabled to join in purchasing burial grounds for their population; but let not the House be led away by the idea that the advocates of burial outside of cities were animated solely by a pure and disinterested zeal for the good of the poorer inhabitants of the metropolis. If the clergy were interested in the continuance of burials within the metropolis, there were other parties much more flagrantly interested in the opposite direction. A large body of the clergy in the metropolis were dependent on surplice fees; and in many parishes in London there were no tithes, the clergy depending on fees, and on the voluntary offerings of their congregations. Unless those vested interests were duly regarded, they would much injure some of the most important interests in the community. After doing this, it would be a very poor consolation for them to reflect that they had encouraged joint-stock companies in seven or eight localities around the metropolis. All he desired was, that in providing a remedy, those interests which he advocated should not be overlooked. He believed that it was possible to provide fitting places of sepulture within the metropolis, and at the same time not to injure the incumbents in the metropolis. For this object, he thought the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Finsbury would be the most proper basis.
 Sir Robert Peel  had not the slightest objection to the object sought to be obtained by the hon. Gentleman; but he did not see how a sound inference could be drawn unless the quantity of the produce of land under cultivation in the three kingdoms was ascertained. He believed that in Scotland there would be no difficulty to collect this information from the parish schoolmasters; but with respect to the employing the Poor Law Guardians, he rather thought that it would be bad policy to mix them up with any political subjects. Although it might be a saving of money, yet he doubted whether the end could be so effectually attained as by the employment of persons expressly for the purpose. At the same time, the employment of different persons in every parish might lead to an unnecessary expense; and it occurred to him whether or not the country might not be divided into districts, and persons be appointed to superintend each district. He thought that would be preferable to taking the localities by parishes. At the same time, he would suggest to the hon. Gentleman to consider whether it would not be better to allow the Correspondence on the subject to be produced before coming to any conclusion. At all events, he trusted the hon. Member would not press his Motion to a division. He begged to assure the hon. Gentleman, and the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, that there was no wish on the part of Her Majesty's Government to prevent the production of the information they wished to obtain by the production of the Correspondence. All that could be said was, that it might be incomplete; but he did not think that that was a very great objection; but he would repeat that it was indispensable that information should be obtained from the three parts of the kingdom; and he must say that no man could more zealously and faithfully have discharged the duty he had undertaken, to perfect some plan for obtaining official information on this and all other subjects, than his right hon. Friend the late President of the Board of Trade. On the whole, he thought that the Executive
 374
 Viscount Ebrington  said, It was along time since he had heard a speech with greater pain than that with which he had listened to the right hon. Baronet opposite. He
 349 350
 Viscount Howick  could not give his vote in favour of his hon. Friend's Motion without stating, in a few words, why he did so. He thought his hon. Friend had rather, in his generosity, made a larger concession to the right hon. Gentleman opposite than was altogether discreet. He admitted that the power of opening letters could not exist at all except in its present state. Now he for one, could not agree in that opinion. He believed the power of opening letters might usefully exist, and safely exist, provided the system of secrecy were put an end to. He believed that if they would not resort to the practice of resealing letters, or of defacing post marks—if it were known in what way letters were opened, he believed that such a power might be usefully and safely exercised. But if his hon. Friend should carry his Motion, and the Bill were to be brought in, it would be competent for any hon. Member to propose a clause placing the exercise of the power under such restrictions. He would vote for a clause of that kind, and on this simple ground, that though, by the existence of such a law, they would not obtain the advantage of spying into a man's secret actions, yet they would prevent the Post Office from being used as the medium of carrying on a treasonable correspondence; for then no man engaged in carrying on a treasonable correspondence could use the Post Office as a vehicle of transmission, without the risk of a warrant being issued, by which his correspondence would be seized and used in evidence against him. On the other hand, if they said that they must either have the power as it was, or not at all, he, for one, was perfectly prepared to say that they should not have it at all. He was prepared to say that the danger of abuse in the present form of the
 325 326
 Viscount Mahon  said, he was a Member of the Committee which had this subject under consideration two years ago, and he certainly had hoped that the Government might have been able to introduce a measure in accordance with the recommendation of that Committee. Conversant as he naturally was with the details of the question from having paid much attention to it when serving on the Committee, he must acknowledge that he did not think the right hon. Gentleman had exaggerated the difficulties of the subject; but he did think that his right hon. Friend had in some degree underrated its importance. For his part, he could conceive no question
 347 348
 Mr. Cowper  wished that, as the hon. Member had informed the House that he had only read the Bill that morning, the hon. Member had taken time to read it more carefully. When the Bill reached the Committee, then would be the proper time for the objections of the hon. Member, which related to matters of detail; and he thought that he should be able in Committee to show the hon. Member that his objections were not tenable. The horn Member described the Bill as a compulsory measure; but he did not think it compulsory, first of all, because it depended on the parish whether or not the Bill should come into operation in that par-
 383
 Mr. J. S. Wortley  thought the objections to the measure were not well founded. The hon. Gentleman behind him (Mr. Escott) had made an objection to the Bill, which, if well founded, would justify them in rejecting it. If he (Mr. Wortley) really thought it a compulsory measure, he certainly should not support it. It was true, the opinion of a majority was to be taken against a minority; but in what other way could they ascertain the opinions of parties? These points might be discussed in Committee; but they were not fair reasons for opposing the second reading, which he trusted the House would not object to. This was not the first time the hon. Member for Hertford had brought the question before them, and a proposal of this kind deserved all the attention they could give it. There was no subject on which their legislation could do so much good as in connexion with the Field Garden Allotment system; wherever it had been tried it had been invariably attended with success. It was said it would be much better to leave it to be worked out voluntarily and spontaneously; that was perfectly true, in places where the means and materials for doing so were to be found; but in many cases this could not be done; it was this means which the Bill of the hon. Member for Hertford provided. It was desirable to make a beginning, even should all the good proposed not be effected.
 Mr. M. Stewart  also supported the Bill, and hoped its progress would not be unnecessarily delayed, as it was waited for in Scotland with considerable anxiety.
 Mr. Bucke  complained of the absolute power that this Bill gave to town councils to assess the inhabitants for the purposes of the Bill, without any control whatever on the part of the ratepayers. He had no objection to the establishment of museums in large towns, where the inhabitants wished for them; but this Bill extended to small towns as well; and, therefore, he should move that the House go into Committee on that subject this day six months.
 Mr. Bouverie  objected to the Bill; it was a measure that ought not to pass, and he was surprised the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department had not thought it necessary to negative it. The Legislature ought to leave private parties uninterfered with to settle the value of land; and he did not believe it was just to make parties accept less for their land than it was worth. He should support the Amendment.
 Captain Rous  remarked, that any attack upon a Member of that House was always regarded as a matter deserving of its notice, and the reply to it received equal attention. But it was desirable at all times, in compliance with the good old rule, to hear both sides. It appeared that Mr. Carrington had served for fifteen years under the Board of Ordnance, and that his certificates, signed by the official heads of that department, Colonel Mudge and Lord Vivian, bore high testimony to his character and conduct. He had, however, accepted the office of land surveyor to the New Zealand Company; and when a person was induced or seduced by that Company to enter into its service, his labours ought to be treated with proper consideration. It appeared that Mr. Carrington did go out to New Zealand, and performed his duty to the satisfaction of the Company; but after a certain time, without any fault
 380 l. l., l.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, the great object of referring Bills of this nature to sub-committees was to prevent the intro-
 377
 Lord J. Manners  congratulated the hon. Member on the success, so far, of his measure; and he congratulated him also on the remarkable opposition that existed between the reasons assigned against the Bill by the hon. Member for Winchester, and those assigned by the hon. Member who spoke last in opposition. The hon. Member for Winchester objected to the Bill because it contained a clause which would prevent land being let above a certain rental; while the hon. Member who last spoke against the Bill objected to the whole system because it was not possible to prevent people taking as high a rent for their land as they could procure. The hon. Member had also said that if it was a good plan, why not leave it to the care of those who were interested in it. Now, his answer to that was short and simple—that the people who were most interested in it were those who were least able to help themselves. It was a cruel assertion to make to the labouring classes that they could and ought to help themselves in the way of procuring the means of comfort, when it was notorious to all that the position in which they were placed prevented them from doing so. The hon. Member for Winchester said, also, that this measure might have been brought forward with more show of reason a few years ago, when the wages of the people were in a depressed state; but now there was no such necessity. If the hon. Member would look at the Report, which was laid on the
 385
 Mr. Rutherfurd  did not rise to oppose the Bill; on the contrary, he wished to render his learned Friend all the assistance in his power. The only objection he had to the measure was, that it did not go far enough; but, as far as it did go, he thought it would produce important benefits. The amendments which his learned Friend was about to propose, and which he had had an opportunity of seeing, would, he was satisfied, render the Bill still more valuable.
 Mr. B. Escott  admitted that this Bill professed to have in view a most laudable and excellent object; but he wished to know whether the hon. Gentleman intended to persevere in carrying it forward in its present shape; because he could not help recollecting that when it was introduced, the hon. Gentleman stated that it was not designed to be a compulsory measure. However excellent the object might be, the Bill ought not to be a compulsory one. In the course of that morning he had taken the trouble to go through the Bill, and certainly, if he felt astonished when he recollected that the hon. Gentleman stated that it was not a compulsory measure, he should be much more astonished to hear that statement persevered in. The Bill contained several clauses of a very novel and strange character, all of which were strongly
 381 382
 Mr. Speaker  wished to call the attention of the House, before the conclusion of Private Business, to the Bill to empower the Midland Railway Company to make certain Branch Railways from the main line of their Railway, and for other purposes, in which the following Clause was inserted:—
 "And be it Enacted, That in case the proprietors of any manor or estate containing any mines of coal, ironstone, limestone, or other minerals, lying within a distance of five miles from the main line of the said Midland Railways, or any branches thereof, or the renters, lessees, or occupiers of the same, shall find it expedient or necessary to make any Railways or Roads to convey their coals, ironstone, limestone, marble, or other stones or minerals to the said Railway, over the lands or grounds of any person or persons, then and in every such case it shall be lawful for him, her, or them, to make any such Railways or Roads, he, she, or they first paying or tendering satisfaction for the damage to be thereby occasioned to such lands or grounds in manner herein directed with respect to land to be taken for the purposes of this Act; and it shall also be lawful for the owner or owners of and person or persons interested in such lands or grounds to treat and agree with such proprietors, renters, lessees, or occupiers, for the damage the owner or owners of such lands or grounds shall or may sustain by making any such Railway or Road; and in case they cannot agree concerning the amount or value of such damage, or in case the owner or owners of or person or persons interested in such lands or grounds shall refuse or neglect to treat, or by reason of absence or otherwise, shall be prevented from treating, then the same shall be settled and ascertained by the verdict of a jury, in such and in like manner as the value of the lands to be taken for making the several Branch Railways hereby authorized, is by the said
 376
 The Lord Advocate  moved that the House go into
 387 pro formâ,
 Mr. E. B. Denison  thought the principle of the Bill so objectionable, that if the hon. Member for Winchester pressed his Amendment to a division, he should vote in favour of it.
 Mr. Strutt  said, it would be impossible for the Committee to read through the whole Bill, but in the marginal notes and in the index through which the Committee had looked, there was nothing to induce the supposition that such a power was conferred in any part of the Bill. It was only a few days ago that his attention had been called to the subject. He found, on inquiry, that he was not only the Chairman of the Committee, but also a landowner affected by the Bill, and he therefore thought the proper course for him to pursue would be to lay the matter before the Speaker, and leave it in his hands.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that having on Tuesday the 1st of this month, seen an article in one of the leading journals, reflecting upon his conduct as a Member of a Committee of this House, he lost no time, but gave notice the same afternoon that he would call attention to it; and now, by the indulgence of the House for a few minutes, he would state the circumstances which had given rise to the charge. At the time he gave his Notice, he had not seen the letter of Mr. Carrington to Lord Howick, the Chairman of the New Zealand Committee, on which the remarks in  The Times The Times, The Times 378 379
 Mr. Aglionby , in explanation, said that Mr. Carrington was sent out by a separate company, which was afterwards merged in the New Zealand Company.
 Mr. J. W. Patten  did not believe that the Board ever had the subject under their consideration.
 Mr. M. Milnes  believed that the Bill would effect some good, though perhaps not all the good which the hon. Member anticipated from it. One good effect of it would be the best possible application of wasteland adjacent to great towns; but he believed the Bill would not affect, in any great degree, the general mass of the agricultural population. He conceived that it would be advantageous for mechanics living in large towns to have the opportunity of cultivating, during their spare moments, a portion of land in their neighbourhood, which would afford them some relief from their otherwise monotonous occupation.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  thought the principle contained in the Bill atrocious; and he wished to know whether it had been adopted by the Board of Trade; or whether it had been introduced at the recommendation of the Board of Trade.
 Mr. T. Duncombe : The Bill must have been before them, at all events; and I have no doubt they repotted favourably on it.
 Mr. Greene  said, the House was greatly indebted to the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair for directing their attention to that which was undoubtedly a great violation of the Standing Orders. He begged to move that the order for the Second Reading be discharged.
 Mr. Ewart  moved that the House go into Committee on the Museums of Art Bill.
 Mr. Ewart  said, as the right hon. Gentleman had expressed his willingness to co-operate with him in the main principle of the Bill, it would be unfair to press it now. He should, therefore, be happy to agree to the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman, and postpone the Bill for a week.
 Sir J. Graham  hoped the hon. Member would not press his Motion, because that would amount to an absolute rejection of the Bill. He was sorry to say that he had not given that attention to the subject which he should desire to do; but his right hon. Friend at the head of the Government had assented to the principle. At the same time he must say that he thought the Bill, as it now stood, exceeded the understanding which his right hon. Friend entertained of it. If he recollected rightly, his right hon. Friend was favourable to a Bill allowing existing museums in large towns to be assisted out of the borough rate. But he was not aware that his right hon. Friend had adverted to the powers contained in the Bill, namely, to enable the town council to purchase a site, to build, to found, to
 388
 Sir J. Graham  hoped the hon. Member for Winchester would not persevere in his opposition to this measure. Should he do so, he should feel it his duty to vote against him. The principle of the Bill was in favour of making allotments for the use of the poor. He believed it was admitted on all hands that the appropriation of portions of land in aid of the comforts of the labouring population of this country
 384
 Mr. A. Hope  said, as a Member of one of the Universities, he felt deeply interested in this question. The hon. Gentleman who proposed this Motion had not forgotten now that he was Member for Weymouth, that he was lately a scholar of Trinity College, Cambridge; but he did not think his speech would carry conviction to the mind of any hon. Member, or even that the hon. Gentleman himself had great faith in his own arguments. The hon. Gentleman's speech might tell very well as an article in the  Examiner, Spectator, Punch; 438 439 "That in England, and everywhere else, authority is vested in the State, when circumstances require to make changes in the statutes of the Universities, need not be insisted on here. Yet every authority may be abused, and what is the right use of it can be settled only on moral grounds. If a corporation has flagrantly neglected its duties, and more particularly those which concern its especial vocation, the higher powers would, doubtless, be bound to supply the deficiency; but the presumption should always be in favour of the corporation and its good intentions; nor ought any rash interference to take place without the greatest caution, and as the most extreme resource. Thus, although it would be the greatest folly to deny that a visitation empowered by the King in Parliament might constitutionally introduce any changes whatever at the Universities, it is no less true that such an interference would be the greatest stupidity and the most crying iniquity. Iniquity as opposed to illegality is the only injustice which can possibly be committed by the King in Parliament; for do what they will is legal. Before rash interference can be justifiable, a proof must be brought, most convincing to all unprejudiced persons of the time, well acquainted with the facts, of that which has hitherto never been proved at all—namely, that the results to be obtained by such a measure are exclusively and unconditionally required by the laws of God and man, and by the vocations for which the Universities were founded, and cannot be
 440
 Mr. Craven Berkeley  agreed with the hon. and gallant Colonel opposite, that every information received respecting the proceedings and arrangements of those gallant corps would redound to their honour and glory. But he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the War Secretary whether he (Mr. S. Herbert) had any objection to lay on the Table a copy of a certain warrant lately issued from the Horse Guards? If his information were right, the two regiments of Life Guards had, in the issue of the warrant in question, been ill treated by the authorities of the Horse Guards. It appeared that the Royal Regiment of Horse Guards Blue were in a state of debt; and that, in consequence of this, the authorities at the Horse Guards had ordered a portion of the allowances of the two regiments of Life Guards for remounting, equipage, &c., to be given to the Blues. It surely was not fair to the commanding officers of the Life Guards that the allowances of their regiments should be taken away to be handed over to a regiment which had got itself into debt. He might be told that the Blues received less when stationed in London than the Life Guards did—but let them look at the difference in the cost of clothing. He had seen a whole year's clothing of a regiment of Life Guards spoilt in one day's review, or by one day's attendance at one of Her Majesty's drawing-rooms. Another matter that would press hard on the Life Guards was the expenses of the two bands, heretofore defrayed from the regimental funds, which were to be thrown upon the officers. This expense was 350 l. 457
 Mr. S. Herbert  was willing and anxious to give every information as to the relative cost of the Guards and of the regiments of the Line. He admitted that the Guards were somewhat more expensive, and he should be quite ready to defend that additional expense—for he agreed that it was right that Her Majesty's body-guard should be composed of troops whose appearance and accoutrements were fitted for the decent pomp of state. The hon. and gallant Gentleman who had last spoken had rather overstated the loss that would accrue to the two regiments of Life Guards by the new arrangements. It was true that the allowance hitherto made to the Blues for clothing was not sufficient; it was not true that the pecuniary embarrassment of the regiment had been caused by mismanagement. He, as a civilian, was scarcely enabled to express an opinion on the detail question; but the new arrangements had been made by the Board, which was composed of general officers, and who thought that the allowance to the Blues was insufficient, and that given to the Life Guards more than enough. It had also the authority and sanction of Sir H. Hardinge and of the Commander-in-Chief; and he (Mr. Herbert) could not think that there was a ground to complain of ill-usage on this score — on the score, he meant, of the warrant alluded to by the hon. Gentleman, and directing part of the Life Guards' allowances to be issued to the Blues. With respect to the loss that would be sustained by the officers of the Life Guards through defraying the expenses of the band, it would in reality amount to only 130 l. 458
 Mr. Hindley  wished to know what course the hon. Gentleman really intended to pursue?
 Mr. Hindley  observed, that the explanation of the hon. Gentleman was no doubt satisfactory. But he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government if that was not an additional reason for delaying the second reading of the Maynooth Bill? Certainly he and his friends had relied upon a junction of parties in that House for supporting their opposition to the measure. Even the twelve years' experience of the hon. Member for Sheffield in that House had not prevented him from getting into a difficulty, and asking for delay. It was right that delay should be allowed. Would not the right hon. Gentleman delay the second reading of the Bill? He appealed to the Speaker. He wished to ask the Speaker why the Members of that House were required to put their names in the corner of every petition? Were they not by the spirit of that order required to read every petition, in order to know that the prayers of them were respectfully addressed to that House? He had not had time to read every petition intrusted to him. He therefore could not present them. While he would not desire to interfere with the Government or with the business of the House, he asked for time to enable him to discharge his duty conscientiously.
 The Speaker  said, the Committee on the Bill could not entertain the Motion of the hon. Member for Sheffield as an instruction, inasmuch as there would be another instruction to the Committee in pursuance of the Resolution of the Committee of the whole House, assuming that that Committee did agree to apply a portion of the public money out of the Consolidated Fund for the payment of the increased grant to Maynooth. The House could not possibly entertain the two instructions; therefore, it was quite impossible that the hon. Member for Sheffield could propose his Motion on going into Committee.
 The Speaker  remarked, that it must either be made on the question that the Speaker do leave the Chair upon going into Committee of the whole House, or the hon. Member might wait until the Resolution of that Committee should be reported to the House, and make his Motion as an
 393
 Colonel Sibthorp  complained of the voluminous nature of the returns, and of the expense to which they would put the country. He was sure that the various corps of the Army affected by the Motion need not fear any species of publicity; but he wished to know on what grounds the Motion was made, and whether any and what ulterior proceeding was intended when the information was obtained. He had himself been long in Her Majesty's service, though now separated from it, and engaged in a career of less glory and
 456
 Mr. Home Drummond  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the laws concerning Highways, Bridges, and Ferries in Scotland, and the making and maintaining thereof by Statute Service and the conversion of Statute Service into money. He said, he had no intention to supersede the Local Acts. The circumstances of different countries were so different, that the same
 455 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that had he only been called upon to address the House on the present question in his capacity as one of the Members for the University of Cambridge, he should not have considered it necessary to say anything in reply to the Motion of the hon. Member for Weymouth; for, having listened to his speech with great attention, he had heard nothing in so far as the University with which he had the honour to be connected was concerned, which in any way affected or impugned the manner in which they discharged the sacred trust committed to the charge of that institution; still less had there been anything urged which could be construed into a censure upon the proceedings of that University, or any abuses or mismanagement alleged to exist which it required the strong arm of power to remedy. He should, therefore, have been content to rest on the good sense of the House as to the propriety of employing the cumbrous machinery of a Parliamentary inquiry against an establishment with respect to which no breach of trust or violation of duty was alleged to have been committed. But it was in his capacity as a Member of Parliament, and also as a Member of the Government, that he felt called upon to state to the House the course which he felt it incumbent on him to take with respect to the present Motion. A proposal to appoint such a Commission as was contemplated by the terms of the Motion, and the interposition of an Address of the House of Commons to the Crown to appoint such a Commission, were no light measures to take. Such a course of proceeding was only adopted as an instrument of reform where great evils and abuses were known to exist. But these measures were not weapons to be called into everyday use for the mere purpose of gratifying a prurient curiosity or elucidating a favourite theory. Hon. Gentlemen might think it better for young men to be educated under professors than by
 442 443 444 445 446 447 Concise View of Education in the German Universities: "If we look now for a moment at the actual state and character of the German Universities, we shall find, along with all their vast and acknowledged advantages, several great and prominent evils, some of which have crept gradually into practice, and are susceptible of correction, while others are inherent in the system itself. Of the former kind is the want of personal intercourse between the professors and students. As a general fact, most of the professors have no intercourse whatever with their pupils except in the lecture-rooms. They take no interest in them any further than to induce them, if possible, to attend their own lectures, and thus obtain the fee; but do not take the trouble to inquire whether a young man properly improves his time, nor whether he has chosen the best course of study, or the best means to help him forward in his progress. Any parental interest in a young man, or watch over his moral development, is a thing, generally speaking, entirely unknown. Individual professors do, indeed, occasionally invite a few of their own particular pupils to their houses, but rather as a matter of ceremony than out of any regard to their moral or intellectual culture." 448 449 450
 Mr. Hume  said, with reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member who had just addressed the House, he should observe, that, whether the proceedings and speeches of the hon. and learned Member for Weymouth were or were not made the subject of an article in the  Spectator Examiner, Punch. 441
 Mr. Hume  moved for various Returns to illustrate the cost of the Guards and other regiments.
 Mr. Hume  replied, that all he wanted was such a return as had been made twenty-four years ago, the whole of which did not more than fill a single sheet of paper. When he had obtained his information, he would decide what course he would take upon it.
 Mr. Hume : That is a Committee of the whole House.
 Mr. Hume  said, that having had an answer from his hon. Friend already in connexion with that subject, he wished to know from the Chair whether the proper course would not be an amendment on the Bill of the right hon. Baronet when he came to propose from what fund the money for the grant was to be supplied?
 Mr. Hume  said, that he saw on the Order Book a Notice given by the hon. Member for Sheffield of his intention to move to-morrow, on the second reading of the Maynooth College Bill—"That it is the opinion of this House that any provision for the purposes of the Catholic Establishment in Ireland ought to be made out of the funds at present applicable to Ecclesiastical purposes in that country." He begged, therefore, to ask the hon. Member for Sheffield in what way he meant to bring that Motion before the House to-morrow, as it was of the utmost importance that the course to be pursued should be understood.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  wished to ask the hon. Member for Sheffield whether, if he purposed moving his Amendment on the Speaker leaving the Chair, he would not be in the same situation that he would be were he to move on the second reading that the words proposed to be left out stand part of the question? He would not have advanced a single iota. Therefore the House should clearly understand whether the Motion was to be given up altogether, or postponed to some particular stage of the Bill.
 Mr. Wyse  said, that it was not his intention to go at length into the subject, after the able speech of his hon. Friend the Member for Weymouth. He thought that the House must feel satisfied at the tone in which this debate had been conducted, as much by the hon. Baronet on the one side, as by his hon. Friend on the other. He believed that neither the House nor the country would think that this was an unimportant discussion. It was by bringing the Universities more in contact with the Legislature, and through the Legislature with public opinion, that they would raise them up to the intelligence and wants of the existing generation. There were three distinct points in the question before the House. First, the necessity for improvement and reform in the Universities; the appliancy and purpose of the Commission for such improvement and reform; and the
 434 435 436 437
 Mr. Christie  rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to appoint a Commission to inquire into and report upon all matters relating to the Privileges, Revenues, Trusts, and to the State of Education, Learning, and Religion in the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, and the Colleges of these Universities." 394 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 395 l.; l.; l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 396 l. l., l. "Our Sovereign Lord, considering how necessary it is that Universities and Colleges should be provided with good laws, statutes, and ordinances for the regular government of their societies, for regulating the granting of
 397 "They (the statutes of the Universities of Cambridge, dated 1570) will be found to refer to habits of life and to a condition of society which have long since disappeared; they prescribe a course of studies for students of all ages, which the experience of a later age has rejected as unsuited for their preparation for the business of life; they recognise a system of physical and metaphysical philosophy, which the progress of knowledge or the changes of opinion have pronounced to be false or inadequate; they enforce with peculiar strictness and earnestness a most laborious
 398 "They were destined to experience the fate which has attended all systems of statutes or laws which have attempted, by being themselves unchangeable, to fix immutably the changeable character of the wants and habits of mankind. The Elizabethan statutes provided most cautiously against the introduction of these amendments in the academical constitution and administration, which might adapt them to the changes which the lessons of experience, or the advancement of knowledge, might render necessary or expedient; and we consequently find, that in latter ages, they either tended to check or to retard the progress of improvement in the system of academical education, or assumed, when their provisions were no longer maintainable, that unreal, yet embarrassing, character which belongs to laws which, though enforced by the most solemn obligations, are either impossible to be obeyed, or have long been habitually and systematically neglected." "Through the suspension of the University, and the usurpation of its functions and privileges by the collegial bodies, there has arisen the second of two systems, diametrically opposite to each other. The one in which the University was paramount is ancient and statu-
 399 * * * * The Present State and Prospects of Mathematical and Physical Studies in Oxford," "Out of the whole number of candidates, though a certain portion of them had 'got up' the four books of  Euclid, 400 "From 1822 to 1830, the average number of pupils was thirty-one; of whom twenty-eight were for the University. From 1830 to 1838, the average number was sixteen; of whom fourteen were from the University. Such a result has fully justified the forebodings of those who contended from the first that an exclusive encouragement held out to one particular class of studies could not but act as a positive check to those which had been passed over; and that, in proportion as the system itself came into operation, would the sinister influence which it was calculated to exert upon the cultivation of those other branches of knowledge, be more distinctly perceived; nor could anything have placed in a stronger light the force of these local obstacles than the fact that the period of such an increasing indifference to scientific studies in Oxford, should have exactly coincided with that of their greatest exclusion elsewhere. I conceive myself warranted, at least, in concluding, that whatever differences of opinion may exist amongst us as to the degree of countenance which modern science ought to receive in Oxford, all would admit the principle that our present system re-requires modification, if it can be shown to be equally unfavourable to every branch of human knowledge lying beyond the pale of those studies which the Examination Statute requires. We all, I am folly persuaded, are anxious to retain the name and character of our University, under which Oxford has heretofore thriven; and, doubtless, it was upon such an understanding, that we felt ourselves authorized in accepting, amongst other donations, the valuable bequest lately made over to us for the exclusive encouragement of modern languages and literature." "It is notorious that the existing professorships, even when they relate to the popular branches of modern literature or science, are fast dwindling into sinecures, owing to the diminished interest in such pursuits, which causes the natural consequence of the exclusive importance attached to classical studies within this University. It might be expected that any augmentation in the number of such professors and teachers should be accompanied, whenever it was practicable, with measures calculated to induce the students to avail themselves more frequently of the in-
 401 "As this decrease has been nearly coincident with the increased accommodation for lectures, and the exhibitions of the collections, transferred in 1833 from a crowded room in the Ashmolean Museum to more spacious apartments in the Clarendon, and as it has happened also during a period when the study of geology has been advancing with unexampled rapidity throughout England, and in all parts of the world, it seems reasonable to refer the diminution of attendance which I have experienced, in common with all the other scientific professors in this university, to some internal cause in the system of education and of public examination." 402 403 404 405 406 odium theologicum 407 "Pictâ pandit spectacula caudâ." 408 409 "Whether there be anything in the history of this election which can justify a suspicion that it was not made in full observance of the solemn injunction of the founder, I have not a right, and therefore have no inclination to inquire. The invitation to candidates by public advertisement, the requisition of certain formularies of testimonial, the appointment and actual institution of an examination of the candidates for four days, followed by the election of one who was not a candidate, who did not produce the required testimonials, and who was not examined, nor even present, and this without any declaration on the part of the rector and fellows that the candidates who had presented themselves were in their judgment either insufficient in learning, or
 410 contrà bonos mores. 411 412 413 414 415
 Mr. Ewart,  in seconding the Motion, said, if it were asked for what reason this inquiry was sought, the reply might be given in very few words. The ground upon which the Motion was made was, that the Universities had limited themselves within bounds far narrower than those contemplated by their founders. He thought that even his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford must acknowledge, when he looked at the inscriptions of former times found in the various colleges, that a far more extensive system of learning once prevailed than that which existed at present. It was the object of the founders of those institutions to extend their sphere of usefulness as much as possible; while it seemed to be that of their successors to limit the benefits which they were adapted to diffuse. How did it happen that one of our Universities confined itself almost exclusively to classics, while the other contented itself with classics and mathematics? The originators of these seats of learning contemplated a far wider range; they did not omit education in the arts and sciences, so far as they were known in their own day; and no less than seven arts and sciences would be found to have constituted the curriculum through which degrees had to be obtained. Now, he could not help remarking, in reference to the present state of the Universities, that some of the most profound works in classics and history now used in the colleges were translations from the German; being, in fact, the composition of erudite German professors. There must be some defect in a system which led to such a result. The great object of all education, after giving a certain amount of elementary instruction, should be to develope the latent faculties of the mind; and unless this object were kept in view, all attempts at education would prove ineffectual. That object was far more traceable in the conduct of the founders of these institutions than in the narrow path pursued in the Universities in modern times. They now adhered to
 416 417
 Sir. C. Napier  said, that having observed it stated that two hon. Gentlemen, holding office under the Government, had abstained from voting on the question of the increased grant to Maynooth, he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet whether they were absent on that occasion by accident or design? And, if they were absent, whether they still remained Members of Her Majesty's Government or not? And if they did so remain, he wished further to ask whether or not the Maynooth Question was an open question in the Cabinet?
 Mr. Ward  said, he was much obliged to his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, for giving him an opportunity of stating the course he wished to take to-morrow with regard to a Motion which he could not withdraw without making some explanation to the House. When he gave notice of that Motion it was his intention to amend the Bill, and not to throw it out. He had no desire that his Motion should become the rallying point to all parties opposed to the Government measure. He was ashamed to say, after having been so many years a Member of that House, he was scandalously ignorant of the form in which that Motion should be put. He understood now, however—but if he was wrong, the Speaker would put him right,—that the course would be simply this—when he moved his Amendment, the Speaker would put the question, that the words proposed to be left out stand part of the question. Upon that, he understood, that all the hon. Gentleman opposed to the Maynooth grant might vote with him if they pleased, and he believed they would. But he had no wish to give a sort of encouragement to the unhappy feeling prevailing out of doors by even the appearance of a large numerical minority in that House against the proposition of the Government. At the same time, he did not wish to be considered as shrinking from the question. He had, however, made up his mind to abandon the Notice as it stood in his name for to-morrow. But he intended to bring the question on at the very next stage of the Bill at which he could get at a clear and intelligible expression of
 391
 Mr. Ward  intimated that he would move it as an instruction to the first Committee.
 Mr. Ward : I will give an answer to-morrow.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, the hon. Member for Weymouth had promised at the commencement of his speech that he would endeavour to avoid any expressions which might be considered disrespectful to the institutions which were the subject of his Motion, or painful to those who were interested in their welfare. That promise the hon. Member had kept most faithfully. Whilst he differed from him as to many of his facts, and all his conclusions, he did not recollect in the course of his able speech a single expression which was inconsistent with the promise made at its commencement. He should not have risen thus early to address the House on this subject, but, as he could not conceal from himself that the hon. Member had, in many parts of his speech, addressed him personally, he would not shrink from the task of at once endeavouring to meet his arguments. Now, he did not deny the proposition which the hon. Member had assumed as the basis of his Motion, namely, that the Crown had a right to issue a Commission to investigate the state, the privileges, the rights, and the duties of the two Universities; but he respectfully submitted to the House that, notwithstanding all the talent and research which he had combined in his speech, the hon. Member had laid no foundation whatever for the Motion with which he had concluded. The hon. Member began by speaking of the great wealth, the vast privileges, and the pecuniary value of the livings enjoyed by the Universities; and this he followed up by stating the amount which the Universities received, first, in the shape of drawback for paper, and next in that of a donation of 500 l. 418 l. s. l. s. l. s. d. l. s. l., l. s. d. l. s. d. l. 419 l. s. l. 420 421 422 423 ad proficiendum in literis aptiores, in moribus honestiores, in facultatibus pauperiores; 424 425 426 427 428 429 430 431 432 433
 Sir R. Peel : I am not quite sure that the hon. Member has asked me any question. I came down to this House under the impression that the hon. Member for Sheffield would make the Motion of which he had given notice. I do not see any reason, in his withdrawal of that Motion, why I should postpone the second reading of the Bill. It is my intention, therefore, to propose that the Bill affecting the Maynooth College shall be read a second time to-morrow. As I have heard representations made from parties calling for a postponement of this Bill, I wish to remind the House that there must be with respect to this Bill an opportunity of taking the sense of the House at another stage entirely involving the principle. Before we can proceed, the House must resolve itself into Committee of the whole House for the
 392
 Sir R. Peel  could not undertake to say whether or no the hon. Members to whom the gallant Gentleman had referred were absent from the division on the grant to Maynooth by accident or design. There had been no changes recently in Her Majesty's Government—no removals from office. But with respect to the increased
 390
 Viscount Palmerston  would say a few words before voting for the Motion of his hon. Friend; and if any person in that House had been convinced by the able and eloquent speech of his hon. Friend, he did not think that conviction would be shaken by the speech they had just heard from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, because he was bound to say that the speech, especially in the part refusing inquiry, both in its argument and its line of topics, carried him back to the happy period when they were members of the debating society in their University, and when in their speculative society they were discussing a question which could lead to no practical result, as it could in a body like the House of Commons. The right hon. Gentleman went into an argument against a Commission which would be a bar to any inquiry. If the argument had come from the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln, who had an intuitive aversion to every Commission, it would be perfectly consistent and intelligent; but an argument so stout against any inquiry coming from the Member of a Government which had not abstained from all inquiry, but had issued Commissions, and might probably issue others, did not seem to be an argument which was likely to carry much weight. It was not on the ground of censure by issuing a Commission that he voted for his hon. Friend's Motion. He implied no blame; he implied no breach of trust; he would not, on the other hand, deny the great merit, neither would he diminish the value of these institutions; he had no doubt that the system of education had been attended by great and important benefits, and that it had produced to the State many great and eminent men. With regard to the profession of the law in parti-
 451 452
 The Earl of Arundel and Surrey  congratulated the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) after the speech of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, at now having the support of every man who was worthy of the name of a statesman. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Dublin had alluded to the want of Catholic petitions for this measure. The hon. Gentleman had made a long speech, characterized by amenity of manner, and by language of which no one could have any right to complain; but he wished to tell the hon. Gentleman that what affected the Catholics of Ireland affected also the Catholics of England; that the Catholics of England rejoiced in any good that was offered to Ireland, and that they viewed with delight and gratitude the boon which was about to be bestowed on the Catholics of Ireland by the right hon. Baronet. He must say also, that the hon. Member's speech was full of exploded charges against the Catholics, and of no doubt unintentional misrepresentations against Catholic doctrines and principles; but the real point of the speech was to be found in the last sentence, wherein he declared that he opposed the grant, because he was opposed to the Catholic religion, and that was the real reason of the violence, and of the "No Popery" cry. The sole reason was this they said, "You are wrong and we are right." They denied, indeed, any desire to persecute the Catholics, but they were endowed with no friendly feeling towards them. They were influenced by a spirit which would have qualified them to become one of the Knights of King Arthur's Round Table; a spirit and a frame of mind which, a few centuries ago, would have made the hon. Member for Kent turn him at a slowfire, and some other person turn the survivor, and that without any great loss to the country. But, to go back as far as eighteen centuries, suppose the hon. Member for Kent had been born an Israelite, and brought up an honest and conscientious Israelite, would he not, with the same frame of mind and disposition, have desired to impeach the Roman Go-
 555
 Lord Northland  next rose, but owing to the confusion which prevailed in the House, the few observations which the noble Lord made were nearly inaudible. He was understood to say that he felt great regret at being thus obliged, for the first time, to differ from Her Majesty's Government.
 Mr. Disraeli  said: Sir, I should not have intruded for a moment between you and the noble Lord just now, had I the slightest idea that he intended to have caught your eye; but the Amendment having been withdrawn, I imagined, and that supposition is very general on this side of the House, that we should not have been honoured with any declaration of opinion from Gentlemen opposite. But I am extremely glad that the noble Lord has had an opportunity of expressing his opinion on the subject. I trust he does not for a moment imagine that I rise to say anything injurious to his creed, which I respect, or anything offensive to himself and his co-religionists, with whom, in many respects, I sympathize. I come to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Newark. My first impression,
 556 557 558 559 560 561 Loud cheers 562 563 564 565 566 Hansard. Hansard? Hansard, Hansard hocus pocus, 567 ad misericordiam, l. l., 568 569
 Mr. Speaker : The debate has arisen on a point of order, and not on the petition. I should have felt it my duty to interfere if an hon. Member had risen for the purpose of debating the petition. But the right hon. Gentleman spoke upon a point of order, whether the petition should be received or not.
 Mr. Speaker  referred the hon. Member to the Standing Order of the House, and explained that the rule was, that there should be no debate upon the presentation of a petition unless it had reference to a breach of the privileges of the House.
 Mr. Speaker  informed the hon. Member, that if he was reading the petition he was certainly out of order. He must merely state its substance. The hon. Member may have made notes of the
 497
 Mr. Speaker : Having stated to the hon. Member the rules of the House, I hope he will strictly confine himself to the substance of the petition; otherwise his conduct will be most disorderly.
 Mr. Speaker  rose and said, that the hon. Member must confine himself to the prayer of the petition. If the hon. Gentleman wished the petition to be read at length, he should move that it be so read by the Clerk at the Table.
 Mr. C. W. Wynn  said, he thought, certainly, that there might be reasons why the objections should not be urged against the present petition lying on the Table; but if the House should decide hereafter that the petition was a ground upon which a Member of Parliament might by these means be called to account for his Parliamentary conduct, he certainly thought that it would not be conducive to the honour or advantage of the House to have such a petition laid upon the Table. He should therefore give his negative to the reception of a petition bringing charges against a Member of Parliament by name. A charge might be stated by one Member against another as the ground of proceeding to call him to account for his conduct, but the House ought not to receive a charge under the guise of a petition. He should move, then, to negative the Motion that the petition do lie on the Table.
 Mr. C. W. Wynn  withdrew his Amendment.
 Mr. C. W. Wynn : The question was that the petition should lie on the Table, which I conceived myself at liberty to oppose.
 Mr. Colquhoun  said: * * 502 503 504 Roebuck: 505 quasi Ward: 506 "His wish was, that they should not cease to be Roman Catholics; that they should continue to be sincere and liberal Roman Catholics, connecting themselves with their own Government, for purposes of mutual benefit; to the exclusion of all foreign connexion." "The clergy, too, had sent in from time to time their adhesion. Maynooth began to be felt. Irishmen who had never left Ireland, were the priests whom it sent forth; and though, in some instances, the proprieties and decencies of their ecclesiastical station were considerably lost, the country gained on the whole by the infusion of a more popular spirit among the body." "The young were of a very different temper; for the most part they had been educated at Maynooth, and had carried with them, as I have already remarked, all that spirit of independence and democracy which of late years has more or less become the characteristic of Irish Catholic education. They were full of the spirit of the times, and thoroughly acquainted with every detail of recent politics." 507 Morning Chronicle: "The most serious fact of all connected with the present agitation has yet to be mentioned. There cannot be a doubt that the great body of the Roman Catholic priests have gone into the movement in the worst, that is, in the rebellions sense. Many of the priests of the old school, who had been educated in France, and had seen the world, held out for a time; but they were given to understand, that if they continued to take this line, the shepherd would be deserted by his flock, and they were forced to yield. Two or three splendid instances are still mentioned of priests openly professing their determination to submit to any consequences, rather than give their sanction to a movement which they knew to be of the most dangerous and pernicious character; but the curates and young priests brought up at Maynooth, have gone into it heartily, almost to a man. These young men are generally the sons of small farmers, and other persons of a similar rank in life. They, therefore, bring with them strong feelings and limited and one-sided information from home; and at Maynooth they are brought up, like our young Newmanite clergy at Oxford, to regard the Church as the sole object for which they are to live, and think, and act. They have no property, no families of their own, to be compromised by a rebellion; and, as it would be inconsistent with the character of their sacred profession to appear at the head of their flocks on the field of battle, they run no personal risk. They may gain, but they cannot well lose, by the result of a conflict. Some, more heady and enthusiastic than the rest, might even lead their flocks to battle; but, whatever their conduct in this respect might be, there cannot be a doubt that the prevailing spirit of the priesthood is correctly represented by the following expressions, extracted from the speech of the Rev. Mr. Cantwell, parish priest of Tramore, at the late monster-meeting at Lismore:—'He could support O'Connell with his voice, but he would support him with more. Look at that arm (said the reverend gentleman, stretching forth his right arm). After the magnificent scene I have this day witnessed, I'll die a death, or see Ireland free.' (Tremendous cheering, waving of hats, &c.) The priests have given to the repeal movements all the weight of a religious cause in the eyes of a superstitious people." "I never heard the subject of the priest-
 508 509 l. l. "No intentions could possibly be more laudable than those by which the Government was influenced on that occasion, and the persons selected to direct the institution were amongst the most honourable in society. But these persons were not concerned in the original design, or in the details. The Ministers who carried the project into effect had not an accurate view of the subject; and they consulted with persons who were incompetent to inform them. The Roman Catholic religion might have received the assistance designed for it at a much less expense; or the sum bestowed might have been rendered a means of more extensive good, and productive of stronger feelings of gratitude. The Government should have contented itself in providing the necessary buildings, appointing officers and professors, with endowment adequate to ensure a succession, and creating a limited number of foundations in reward of merit, or in aid of deserving necessity. There, in my apprehension, it should have stopped. The bounty which supports at the public expense an entire college, and every individual of its members, is too indiscriminate; the emotions to which it might be expected to give rise, are lost in the generality; no man is obliged by what every man partakes of." 510 J. Graham: Ward: Milnes: l. l. 511 512 "I felt and knew that I was free. Associated with a company of noble-minded youths, it was our earnest endeavour to cultivate our minds, and strengthen our bodies. I chose theology as my profession, because I felt a strong leaning towards teaching." Dublin Review.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, he approached this question with considerable apprehension as to whether he would be able adequately to explain the opinions he held upon it, and the reasons for his vote. He felt this the more, because it appeared to him that this was a great national question, and that there was danger from what they had heard to-night that all considerations of national welfare would be forgotten in petty private pique, and personal feeling. He did not like on a question of this kind to see feelings of a merely personal nature introduced to disturb those other considerations which must of necessity in that House, and at that time, excite great anxiety in the minds of all men, who felt that they had a great duty to perform to the people, and who did not forget the interests of the people in considerations concerning themselves. And here he would for the moment make one passing remark of a critical character. He could not congratulate the hon. Member for Shrewsbury on the effect of the manner of his speech; it certainly had not been characterized by any of that remarkable talent which was necessary to bear away the open malice which it evinced. That speech was certainly poor in its performance, however malicious in its motives. It was said to be something to be praised by one who was himself worthy of praise; so it was hard to be accused of inconsistency by one who was himself open to the same charge. Even if he (Mr. Roebuck) were unwilling to use towards the hon. Member those hard words which seemed to stand in the place of wit on this occasion, the argument, if argument it could be called, which formed the sum and substance of the hon. Gentleman's speech, could be retorted on the hon. Gentleman himself. What did his charge amount to? Why, that the right hon. Baronet had in former times held former opinions, and that with the change of times he had changed his opinions. The hon. Gentleman himself was open to the same charge. What was the sort of constitutional opposition to which the hon. Member at one time aspired? Why, it was not only a constitutional opposition, but a liberal one. The great model of his Parliamentary career was at one time the hon. Member for Montrose. Commencing
 570 571 572 l. l. 573 574 575 l. l. 576 577
 Mr. Roebuck : Yes. Then I am not wrong. The right hon. Gentleman has
 501
 Mr. Roebuck : I again rise to order, and I will make a Motion this time. The hon. Member is reading word for word the petition, a copy of which I hold in my hand. It is a flagrant breach of the Orders of the House, and an unworthy breach of the same. I now move that the hon.
 498
 Mr. Roebuck  observed, that there had now arisen a debate on the presentation of a petition, and hereafter he should not think it out of order to raise a debate on any petition that might be presented.
 Mr. Roebuck : Sir, I object to that. Is it not right to enforce the Order of the House? I myself objected to the making of that Order, and so did my hon. Friend the Member for Montrose. If the hon. Member wishes to bring these statements forward, he ought not to do it in this manner, immediately before a large debate, without the possibility of a reply; but there ought to be a substantive Motion, and he should read his petition for the purpose of making his Motion; therefore I cannot agree to the hon. Member reading the petition at length on this occasion.
 Mr. Roebuck  again rose to order. The hon. Member was clearly reading the petition.
 Mr. Roebuck  rose to order. He understood it was the rule of that House, against which he had often voted and spoken, that there should be no speaking on the presentation of petitions; that Members should confine themselves to the declarations contained in petitions, a statement of the persons from whom they came, and their prayer. He held in his hand a copy of the petition  in extenso
 Mr. Milnes : Would it not be better to have the petition read by the Clerk at the Table?
 Mr. W. E. Gladstone : * * 521 522 * * 523 524 "That he supported the grant as it stood, because it was one of those which the Parliament of Ireland thought it wise to preserve at the Union; because he found it, in fact, given over to England as part of the Union; that if the grant had been fairly open to opposition after the Union he certainly should have been disposed to resist it, because he thought, on principle, that it was wrong in a State endeavouring to establish a particular system of religion to provide a public supply for the maintenance, encouragement, and propagation of another." * l. * 525 l. l. 526 l. 527 s. l., d. l. 528 529 bonâ fides 530 531 532 533 Several hon. Members said it was not the same person; and others that it was the same. 534 535 536 537 538 539 540 541 542 "It is agreeable neither to piety nor to po-
 543 * An ironical Cheer from an hon. Member. * 544 545 546 unam sanctam In cœnâ Domini Grogan 547 548 549 550 * * The Times 551 552 "It is a very great mistake to imagine that mankind follow up practically any speculative principle, either of government or of freedom, as far as it will go in argument and logical illation. We Englishmen stop very short of the principles upon which we support any given part of our constitution, or even the whole of it together. … . These are the cords of man. Man acts from adequate motives relative to his interests, and not on metaphysical speculations. Aristotle, the great master of reasoning, cautions us, and with great weight and propriety, against this species of delusive geometrical accuracy in moral arguments, as the most fallacious of all sophistry." * * 553 554
 Mr. Ferrand : Sir, I will read the prayer of the petition; and I shall consider it my duty then to move that the petition be read by the Clerk at the Table. You will find it rather a long one. Sir, they state that this announcement
 "By authority" is nothing less than a "communication" from the Throne to the Church of Rome; that church is recognised—the monarch "reconciled" thereto—its archbishops and bishops, who derive their episcopal authority solely from "the foreign prince and prelate," the Pope, are communicated with—their orders, solely of foreign origin, recognised, and, in virtue of the same, are invested with judicial functions by the Crown, and have conceded to them "preeminence" above a nobleman of the United Kingdom and a dignitary of the Established
 499
 Mr. Ferrand : I do not wish to do anything disrespectful to the House, or that is disorderly. I only wish to discharge my duty to the petitioners to the utmost of my power. The hon. Member for Gateshead was not interrupted last night when he presented a petition.
 Mr. Ferrand  continued: He insisted he was merely reading what was stated in the petition. The petition further stated,—
 "That notwithstanding this solemn act and law, they find in the  Dublin Gazette,
 Mr. Ferrand  said, he would confine himself to the substance. The petitioners stated that by the 1st of William and Mary,  s. c. "Whereas it is inconsistent with the safety of the Protestant kingdom to be governed by a Popish Prince, or by a King or Queen marrying a Papist; be it therefore enacted, by the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in Parliament assembled, that all and every person and persons who shall hereafter be reconciled to or hold any communication whatever with the See or Church of Rome, shall be declared incapable of enjoying or succeeding to the Throne and Government of these Realms; and in all such cases the subjects shall be absolved from their allegiance, and the Throne and Government shall descend to the next person in succession, he or she being a Protestant."
 Mr. Ferrand  resumed,—
 "On all these grounds petitioners most humbly pray your honourable House to reject all propositions for the encouragement and spread of Popish principles, to withdraw all manner of support from the Popish and idolatrous College of Maynooth, to deprive all the functionaries of the Pope within this realm of 'power, pre-eminence, and authority,' and forthwith to institute an inquiry into the conduct of the right hon. Sir R, Peel, Bart., M.P.; and if the premises of your petitioners be found correct, to impeach him for high crimes and misdemeanors against the laws and the constitution of the realm; and if he be found guilty thereof, to visit him with condign punishment for the same; and your petitioners further pray, that should your honourable House upon investigation ascertain that, though the conduct of the Prime Minister may not have so far violated law as to warrant his impeachment, your honourable House may still be pleased to present an Address to Her Majesty, calling upon Her Majesty to remove Sir R. Peel from Her Councils, as one who has disgusted all parties, who ousted other men from their places merely to adopt their policy, and who, if he have succeeded in replenishing the coffers of the Exchequer, has done so while carrying out measures calculated to draw down the wrath of Heaven on the land, divest the kingdom of its best and only security, and thus to render it but a richer spoil to the first foreign foe who may, in the just judgment of God, be raised up to scourge the realm for national unfaithfulness."
 Mr. Ferrand  then moved that the petition be read by the Clerk at the Table.
 Mr. Ferrand  said, that several hon. Members around him did not think it advisable or respectful to the House to insist that his petition should be read at the Table, and he therefore withdrew his Motion to that effect.
 Mr. Ferrand  had a petition to present from nearly 2,000 Members of the Dublin Protestant Operative Association, which was most respectfully worded. The petitioners begged to state, that
 "They have of late been afflicted beyond measure by the utter contempt with which
 496
 Mr. Grogan  rose to second the Motion
 513 514 515 Valdinatus 516 517 518 519 in cœnâ Domini 520
 Sir R. Peel  moved the Second Reading of the Maynooth College Bill.
 Sir R. Peel  said, with all deference to his right hon. Friend, he did not see on what ground the House should refuse to let the petition lie on the Table. There might be parts of the petition having reference to the Parliamentary conduct of a Member of the House, but it also related to an act done by the Executive Government—the announcement in the  Dublin Gazette.
 Sir R. Peel : I will only submit to the House, considering the peculiar nature of the notice which was given by the hon. Member of his intention to present this petition, and that the petition calls in question the Parliamentary conduct of a Minister of the Crown, whether some latitude ought not to be allowed to him. I think, under the circumstances, that he should have permission to state the contents of the petition.
 Sir J. Y. Buller  reported from the Select Committee on Petitions for Private Bills—
 "That, in the case of the Midland Railway Branches Bill, the Standing Orders had not been complied with, inasmuch as a Clause (No. 15 in the said Bill) confers power to take lands by compulsion, and to make several Branch Railways, which intention was not specified in the Notices; and such Clause gives this power to individuals whose estates contain minerals lying within five miles of the main line of the said Midland Railways, and not to the said Company."
 Sir J. Y. Buller  said, the reason why they did not report how this Clause got into the Bill was because the majority of the Committee thought it was only their province to ascertain if the promoters of the Bill had complied or not with the Standing Orders. He agreed with the noble Lord that the matter had better be referred back to the sub-Committee, giving them leave to report specially to the House. He thought also, that, in referring the case back to the Committee, it should be an instruction that the evidence given erroneously by Mr. Burke should be written out for the consideration of the Committee.
 The O'Conor Don  concurred so cordially in the truth, the justice, and the appropriateness of the sentiments quoted by the noble Lord, that he had taken down the same pamphlet to which he referred, with the intention of quoting exactly the same passage from it. If this were a mere Irish question, and to be decided by the votes and wishes of the Irish people, he believed
 618 619 l. l. l. l. 620 Philosophical Journal. 621 622
 Colonel T. Wood  did not justify the vote which he intended to give, either upon the ground of contract or of expediency.
 625 626 627
 Mr. Stafford O'Brien  thought the hon. and gallant Member who last spoke had in one part of his speech contradicted the other. First, he said the extension of the grant was not the assertion of a new principle; and then he said, "You have tried for 300 years to Protestantise Ireland, and failed — why then continue doggedly to follow out the same system?" If the principle were not a new one, there would have been no occasion for that appeal. The hon. Member for Lambeth had asked the Government whether this measure would be followed out by others of a similar character; but his right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland—who he could not say replied to, but followed, the hon. Member in the debate — had given them no information upon that point, especially in reference to the great question of the endowment of the Roman Catholic clergy. Now, he ventured again to press that question distinctly on the attention of the Government, and should be compelled to conclude, especially after the speech of the right hon. Member for Newark (Mr. Gladstone), that if they avoided or eluded it—and he believed the House and the country would conclude also in the case—that they did intend to follow up the present measure with an Act for the endowment of Roman Catholics. If such was the intention of the right hon. Baronet, seeing that he had taken credit for not taking the House by surprise in regard to the present Bill, he trusted that he would earn for himself the same credit at the end of this and the beginning of next Session of Parliament, or whenever he should bring forward such a measure by declaring at once not only that he did intend to pay the Roman Catholic clergy, but also out of what fund, and subject to what conditions that payment was to be made. That question being, however, up to this time unanswered, he would proceed to consider the grant now proposed in two points of view. First, as an isolated measure; and, secondly, as one of a series. If it were to be looked upon as an isolated measure, he must say, that in his opinion it would confer anything but a boon on the Roman Catholic clergy; for if in the
 632 633 634 635
 Mr. Cowper  said the hon. Member for Northamptonshire had frankly declared with a scrupulousness that did him credit, that he did not feel himself at liberty to support this Bill, after being elected on the understanding that he was to form part of that great Tory party which was then opposing all concessions to Romanism; and the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. W. Wynn) had answered, that he never was a Tory, and that certain other Members of the Government were not Tories; but where were they to look for a representative of Toryism, if they were not to find it in the present head of the Government; and whatever might have been that right hon. Gentleman's course upon particular occasions, no one could deny that he owed his present position, mainly to that opposition of which he was the acknowledged leader, against Whig measures of concession towards Irish Roman Catholics. He felt the force of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire's remarks upon the evils arising from distrust in public men; but
 639 640 641 642
 Mr. F. Maule  was perfectly aware that
 604 605 606 607 608 l. 609 "My two friends and myself went through the whole College. The arrangements appeared to be precisely those most suited to the nature of the institution, and to the purposes for which it was intended. Everything was plain and comfortable. Each of the students had his own sleeping apartment. They are well fed, and comfortably, though plainly clothed." Sheil: 610 611 612
 Mr. Sidney Herbert  hoped, after the two speeches which had just been addressed to the House, it would not be thought presumptuous in him to endeavour to offer a few observations not only in answer to some portions of the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Edinburgh, in which he diverged from the question before the House, but also in answer to the speech of the right hon. and learned Gentleman who had just resumed his seat; in which he had come to some conclusions both with respect to the measures of the Government generally, and more particularly with respect to the provisions of the measure now before the House. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Macaulay) in a speech, like all his speeches, distinguished for its splendid eloquence and powerful argument, had adduced many reasons, while he had passed over and rejected many other reasons, which to his (Mr. S. Herbert's) mind were very cogent ones for passing the measure before the House. He had proved to demonstration that in this question no principle was involved. Nothing could be more clear than the exposition which the right hon. Gentleman made of
 667 668 669 670 671
 Lord G. Somerset  thought the Report showed a gross violation of the Standing Orders but the House would observe that
 594
 Mr. Lefroy , after the mild and temperate language in which the hon. Member who had just sat down had conveyed his views to the House, felt that he rose under some disadvantage to express an opposite opinion. He trusted that in what he said he should give no offence to the hon. Member, or to any one else, either in or out of that House; but he felt the more anxious to explain the motives which influenced his conduct on this measure, because it was proposed on the responsibility of a Government, to the measures of which he generally gave his cordial support, and because the right hon. Baronet had slated his intention of carrying it through Parliament in opposition to the sentiments of the country, which had been so clearly expressed. It would be a waste of time to consider the plans which had been adverted to by the right hon. Baronet on introducing this measure, but which he had not called upon them to adopt: they had now simply to consider whether they were prepared to support the grant which had been proposed for the education of Roman Catholic priests at Maynooth; and the supporters of that proposal rested upon two grounds—contract and expediency. As to the former, it seemed to be generally allowed that it had no great weight; and he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman the late President of the Board of Trade, that if that argument applied to the case of the old grant, it could not be applied to a new case, of a large permanent endowment connecting the College with the State, instead of a small annual grant. Then as to the ground of expediency, if ever there was a case in which that ground ought to be confined within the narrowest limits it was the present—an occasion in which there was much to wound the feelings and hurt the prejudices of those who objected to the measure on religious grounds. The argument of the right hon. Baronet on this subject was rather strange; he said, "A certain small grant has hitherto been made, and the system has confessedly worked badly; but the system having worked badly, I propose, without at all interfering with the management of the institution, so as to secure its good working in future, a
 623 624
 Mr. Hawes  said, that considering the number of petitions which had been presented against the Bill, and the deep interest that had been taken in the progress of the measure out of doors, they would be warranted in the conclusion that the Bill was one of great and vital importance to the interests of the country; and yet when
 595 596 Robert Peel: 597
 Mr. C. W. Wynn  expressed his surprise at the view of the present question taken by the hon. Member who last addressed the House. The hon. Member seemed to consider the matter now under discussion not as one which regarded the great interests of justice and humanity, but as one in which he and those who thought with him ought to take the course most consonant with the interests of party, and what he supposed to be their character for consistency. The hon. Member also
 636 637 638
 Mr. Shaw  said, he felt all the inconvenience and personal disadvantage of offering himself to the attention of the House to answer the able and eloquent speech of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down; but regarding rather the strength of the cause, which he earnestly felt, than the feebleness of the advocate, of which he was very conscious, he would not shrink
 659 660 "The measure is in substance a new measure—the Government, in proposing it, has not only changed the basis of the grant, from an annual grant into a permanent endowment by Act of Parliament, but, by placing the buildings under the immediate care of the Government, thereby certainly established as close a relation as it was possible to establish between that institution and the State by any legislative measure." 661 662 663 l. 664 665 "Divide et impera" 666
 Mr. Labouchere  said it was quite clear a most gross, flagrant, and dangerous breach of propriety had been committed on the part of the agent for this case, and it was equally necessary that the circumstance under which that breach of propriety was made ought to be inquired into. He, therefore, thought the House would do well to adopt the course recommended by the noble Lord.
 Mr. Macaulay : Sir, I have no intention of following the hon. Gentleman who last sat down into a discussion on an Amendment which has not been moved. When my hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield shall think it expedient to propose to us a Motion upon the subject which he has repeatedly introduced to the notice of the House, I may, perhaps, request your indulgence while I offer a few remarks on the question. At present it is sufficient that I should explain why I think it my duty to vote for the second reading of this Bill, which I think I cannot do better than by passing in review, as rapidly as I can, the principal objections which have been made in this House, and out of the House, to the measure now before us. It seems to mc, Sir, that these objections, or at least by far the greater part of them, may be readily arranged under three heads. There is, in the first place, a large class of persons who, it seems, do not object to the grant to Maynooth already made; but object to the proposed increase of the existing grant. There is, again, a large and respectable body of persons who object to any grant whatever—to the old grant as well as to the increase for religious purposes. They conceive that they are not justified, either as private individuals or as Members of a State, in contributing to the propagation of what they deem to be error. There are others who take a still wider ground—those who say that, without inquiry whether the Catholic Church teaches truth or error, they on either supposition object to any and every endowment for its clergy, or the principle of opposing all State endowments. They are advocates of the voluntary system; and if consistent to the opinions they profess, they ought equally to disapprove of the maintenance by the State of the endowments of the Established Church of Ireland as well as the grant to the Presbyterian clergy. Now, as to the first of these parties, I must confess I am exceedingly surprised that there should be found in this country any person not objecting to the old grant, who yet takes the very fallacious and untenable ground of objecting to its increase. I am forced, however, to believe that there are many such persons. When I remember how quietly this grant has passed in former years, and with what violent excitement the proposed increase is opposed; what small minorities have voted against this grant in former years, and how large a body of persons come down to vote against the increase, I must think there
 647 l. l. l. l. 648 l. l.: 649 l. . l. l. l. l. 650 l. l. l. 651 652 653 l. l., Regium Donum l. 654 l. l., l. lusus naturæ. 655 656 657 658
 Mr. Gregory  said, that the question had hitherto been very partially discussed, both in the present and the past debate; that hon. Members who had spoken on both sides of the House, as well as the introducer of the Bill, had taken this as a plain substantive proposition, as if the only question for discussion were the fact that the money hitherto voted for Maynooth had been proved to be insufficient, and that several thousands more per annum should be added to that institution to increase its efficiency. He wished that hon. Members would dismiss from their minds the arithmetical view of the case, and would regard this not as an absolute but as a relative question, and consider the results likely to arise from it. In politics, as well as in physics, there were consequences at which they might arrive with almost the same degree of certainty. From Catholic Emancipation, the consequence of relaxations—relaxations called for imperatively by humanity and justice, every debate and measure connected with Ireland tended to the same end. It was not the person most deeply engaged in the battle that could give the best account of the disposition of the field, or form the most accurate judgment as to its result; but the person who beheld from afar each evolution during the eventful day. The comparison held good in politics; and intelligent and contemplative spectators of Parliamentary proceedings since 1828 were able to form a better judgment as to the issue of the protracted struggle than those who were engaged in the affray. That struggle was the existence of the Protestant Church in Ireland; and the opinion of intelligent and thoughtful persons out of doors was against the stability of that establishment, not so much from the fierce attacks of assailants as from the irresoluteness and false position occupied by her friends. The Irish Church Temporalities Act, the Municipal Corporation Bill, the Dissenters Chapels Bill, tended to the same end. He wished to pass no opinion on these enactments. He took them as he found them, without praise or
 643 noli episcopari volumus episcopari 644 Cheers from the Opposition Benches. 645 "Mark the local consequences of the distinction of the Protestant Establishment. By its abolition you would unfix a vast amount of that most dangerous and explosive of all political elements — mind. Those only who know the true state of Ireland can be aware of the number of minds quietly muzzled by the Protestant Establishment; three-fourths of the intellect and acquirements of Trinity College, with all its auxiliary classes, are completely unprejudiced, merely in consequence of the Church Establishment. The mind of Ireland has never yet fairly influenced the brute force of the country. All the movements hitherto against England have, for the most part, been directed by mere agitators. What the masses of Ireland require, to enable them to rock the British power to its very basis, is a well-trained corps of noble, gallant, and ambitious minds, filled with exalted ideas, gathered from a generous view of things, and disciplined by intellectual pursuits, by philosophical studies, and by scientific habits. And there could be counted dozens of men of that stamp who are at this moment imperialized by the force and power of the Church Establishment alone."
 Sir C. Napier  would not have taken any part in the debate, but that he was anxious to explain to his constituents the grounds upon which he intended, under all the circumstances of the case, to vote in favour of the increased grant, as proposed by the right hon. Baronet. He regretted that his hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield (Mr. Ward) had not had an opportunity of taking a clear vote on his proposition on the second reading of the Bill, for he understood that, had he done so, the hon. Baronet the Member for Oxford, and his Friends, intended to have supported him in a measure much more obnoxious in their eyes than that of the Government, with the view of throwing out the latter altogether. Under the circumstances, however, he thought his hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield had taken a wise and discreet course in disappointing the hon. Baronet and his Friends in that intention; and he hoped
 628 "That it be an instruction to the Committee on the Bill to prepare a Clause or Clauses to provide that in any Protestant parishes where there were less than four or five communicants, the ecclesiastical revenues of that parish should be applied, in case of the charge on the Consolidated Fund, for the better support of the College of Maynooth, which it was intended to make by the present Bill." 629 Cries of 630 l. 631
 Sir T. Fremantle , in offering a few observations to the House, could not pass over the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, without saying that it appeared to him that he had acted rather hastily in judging what the policy of Her Majesty's Government was to be with reference to the future in Ireland. He had stated that with reference to the Bill itself he did not entertain any great objection, but he considered, from the speech of the hon. Member for Newark, that it was the precursor of more important measures, and on that ground he looked at it with jealousy. His right hon. Friend the Member for Newark had quitted the Government
 598 599 "As to the statement of the right hon. Genleman that it was unprecedented to provide
 600 "By reducing the grant the House would be securing the ignorance and inveterate prejudices of a great portion of the Catholics. Proselytism was not to be expected under such circumstances. Religious conformity was impracticable, and political conformity, which was in their power, they would destroy by the course proposed." "On every question for an increase of grant, it was fit to consider what was the amount of what was enjoyed before. It was particularly desirable after the establishment of the connexion of this country with the Irish Catholics since the Union, that the grant of the Irish Parliament should not be diminished. The fact was, that by the Vote then under consideration the grant was to be extended to a provision for one-fourth more than were educated heretofore. It appeared, besides, that 111 others were educated for the Catholic priesthood in different parts of Ireland. On the whole, he thought that the supply of 361 would be sufficient to meet the demand of the
 601 602 "To conclude, we have stated but a small part of the wants of the College, nor have we attempted to describe to your Excellency the evils which must follow from the neglect of so important an institution as a College destined to supply the spiritual wants of 7,000,000 of British subjects in Ireland. If it is doomed to go on without an increased support, the alternative will be that one-half of the Catholic population must be left without pastors, or priests insufficiently educated must be sent out to preside over their respective congregations as they may. The evil consequences of either, in a civil and religious view, are too glaring to require description. If, however, the present Government should patronise a proposal for an increase of the Parliamentary grant on the same terms as the former grant, sufficient to provide for the better education of at least 500 students, to improve their accommodation by the erection of new buildings, or the reparation of the old, the Trustees will be enabled to carry out fully the benevolent intentions of the Government in the original establishment of the College, a great occasion of national discontent will be removed, and the whole Catholic population will acknowledge a deep debt of gratitude for the concession." 603
 Viscount Castlereagh  was happy in having the opportunity of rising after his right hon. Friend who had just sat down. He was extremely sorry that they found themselves on different sides of the question. The speech delivered the other night by the right hon. Member for Newark seemed to have affected his right hon. Friend, and it must have caused considerable change in the opinions of those opposed to this Bill. He would endeavour, in the few words which he had to address to the House, to touch on certain points alluded to by his right hon. Friend, and he would assure him that he did so with the very kindest feeling. And with reference to the question itself, he thought that neither the House nor the country had any right to complain about being taken by surprise. He himself, and many friends of his, had been fully prepared for some great alterations being proposed
 613 l.; 614 615 616 617 "It would be over sanguine to expect that Ireland should be at once and completely incorporated in reeling, as well as in law, with the rest of the Empire. All that we can do, is to lay the foundation—foundations broad and deep—on which a superstructure of conciliation and union may gradually be built. It is not to be doubted that he would have innumerable difficulties to encounter—that he would be assailed by obloquy and calumny and clamour, and that he would risk the disruption of political connexions, and probably shake the security of his Ministerial power. But what are all these, compared with the consciousness of a great duty, ably and honestly performed, the consummation of which would engage the sympathy of all that is wise and good in the whole civilized world, and be attended with that enduring fame which crowns the benefactors of mankind."
 Mr. Byng  observed, that upon this question he wished to say a few words. He would promise the House that his remarks should be very brief. Having felt, interested from the bottom of his heart in favour of the Catholics of Ireland now for sixty-seven years, he could not allow this opportunity to pass without saying a very few words. He thought that he could support this measure, not only upon political grounds, but on what was far nearer and dearer to his heart—religious grounds also. He thought that the Catholics of Ireland had been worse governed than the subjects of any other State in Europe. He could not find in the sacred Scriptures that he was ordered by the great God who made them all, to have any man because he differed from him in his religious views. There was no such mandate to be found in the sacred volume. He believed that every man had a right to worship God Almighty according to the mode which he imagined would be most acceptable to the great God. God Almighty alone knew when men pursued the mode of worship which was pleasing in his sight; He was the searcher of all hearts, and knew whether any human being was or was not sincere—sincerity was what He
 699 700
 The Earl of Lincoln  was so well aware that the subject before the House had been completely exhausted during the four nights' debate which had taken place, and that every argument which had been brought forward, both for and against the measure, had been successively repeated, that he should have hesitated in rising to address the House, and should have contented himself with giving a silent vote, had it not been that he was anxious to remove from himself the danger of any misconstruction which might be attached to his omitting to state the reasons for that vote. He was anxious to explain that the vote he should give would not be a hesitating or a doubtful one; but that he was deeply interested in the success of the measure, not only in its success in this House, but in its success in Ireland. So strongly, indeed, was he convinced of the propriety, of the excellence, the necessity, and the justice of this measure, that he wished in the few observations which he was about to make, that he could impress upon any of his hearers ever so small a proportion of that conscientious conviction which influenced his own mind. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had appealed to the religious feelings of the community on the question; and he was ready to admit, that these feelings had been raised—that they were honest and conscientious; and equally ready to admit that no statesman ought rashly to do violence to such feelings. But it was equally the duty of a statesman to examine carefully whether these feelings were based upon justice and reason. The hon. Gentleman had stated it as his opinion, that if Government could have foreseen the reception which the measure had met with, they would have never brought it forward. He imagined that the hon. Gentleman, from the context of his reasoning, meant to imply that Government would have shunned that expression of religious feeling which, he was free to confess, had been excited. Now, he believed, and, in fact, he knew, that his right hon. Friend at the
 728 729 730 Regium Donum; 731 732 "Although the principal object of the trustees appears to have been the education of persons for the Roman Catholic priesthood, they appropriated a portion of the building as a lay college, and received within it persons who were not destined for holy orders. It became, however, apparent that the different system of education which is deemed necessary for those who are to undertake the duties and obligations of the priesthood, and the additional restraints to which they are subject, rendered the lay college an inconvenient appendage. It was discontinued in the year 1817, and the buildings and land which had
 733 "When we are to provide for the education of any body of men we ought seriously to consider the particular functions they are to perform in life. A Roman Catholic clergyman is the minister of a very ritual religion, and by his profession subject to many restraints. His life is a life full of strict observances, and his duties are of a laborious nature towards himself, and of the highest possible trust towards others. The duty of confession alone is sufficient to set in the strongest light the necessity of his having an appropriate mode of education. If a Roman Catholic clergyman, intended for celibacy, and the function of confession, is not strictly bred in a seminary where these things are respected, inculcated, and enforced as sacred, and not made the subject of derision and obloquy, he will be ill fitted for the former, and the latter will be indeed in his hands a terrible instrument." 734 735
 Lord Worsley  said: If I consulted my own feelings, I should not trouble the House with any observations on this question; but having presented 136 petitions from my own constituents against this Bill, I feel I may be excused if I ask the House to indulge me for a few moments whilst I state the grounds of the vote I mean to give. I presented peti-
 736 l. 737 l.
 Mr. Liddell  said, that in consequence
 691
 Lord John Russell : Sir, the hon. Gentleman does not seem to me to have answered the question by merely stating that it is his intention to bring forward the Motion of which he gave notice last night; the question having been whether he intended to bring forward an express Motion directed against the First Minister of the Crown. I do not quite agree, in my view of the subject, with the right hon. Gentleman opposite; for I do not consider it a matter of course, that according to the rules and Orders of the House, even if there were an express Motion to be grounded on it, that the petition should necessarily be printed with the Votes. Although I conceive that in ordinary cases and on ordinary questions there would be no objection to the printing of a petition on which the Motion of an hon. Member was to be founded. This, however, is a peculiar case—it is not an ordinary petition—it is one accusing the First Minister of the Crown of high crimes and misdemeanors, and asking the House to proceed to his impeachment. The right hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir J. Graham) says, that if a Motion is to be founded on the petition, he and his Colleagues wish to give every facility to the hon. Member in bringing forward his Motion. I have not a similar feeling on the subject to the right hon. Gentleman who made that statement, or to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government; and for myself I think that the House ought to consider it, in the first place, as a Motion against the First Minister of the Crown. I cannot, Sir, consider a Motion on the third reading of the Maynooth College Bill, directed partly against that Bill and partly against an Act of Patliament, which had last year received the assent of the Sovereign, the Lords, and the Commons, describing that Act as a violation of the Act of Settlement, and a contravention of the Oath of Supremacy—I cannot consider that as coming within the notice of a Motion impeaching the conduct of the First Minister of the Crown. In the next place I am of opinion that the printing of the petition, although it would not show that the House meant to go further, yet
 690
 Mr. Newdegate  said, that having, from his firs; entrance into that House consistency opposed the grant to Maynooth, he was anxious to give his reasons for that course which, indeed, applied still more strongly to the present measure. It could not be supposed but that almost immediately after having been returned with the view of generally supporting the present Government, his determination to oppose them on this subject had cost him great pain, nor had he arrived at that conclusion without deep thought and consideration. He could not say that the hon. Member for Montrose had done much to weaken his determination. He could not consider the question apart from religion, nor did he think that the hon. Member had taken a line of argument calculated to promote that desirable object which the hon. Member seemed to have in view — to reconcile conflicting parties, and to soften the differences which existed on this question; for the hon. Member had compared the Roman Catholic religion with the idola-
 713 "Si populus vult decipi, decipiatur." 714 715 Times, l. 716 717 718
 Mr. Ross  looked on the present measure as the earnest of future measures which he believed the right hon. Baronet opposite had in contemplation. He did not mean to say that he regarded this measure as the initiative of proceedings with respect to ecclesiastical affairs in Ireland; but he looked on it as part of a system intended to open the resources of Ireland, and to heal the wounds which had been inflicted on the minds of the people of that country. In his opinion, the opposition to this Bill was founded neither in reason nor justice. Considering that there was more difference between the Presbyterian religion and the religion of the Church of England, than there was between the latter and the Church of Rome, he did not think it fair, while a  Regium Donum l.
 Mr. F. French , seeing the right hon. Secretary of State for Ireland in his place, wished to ask him several questions relative to the Irish Poor Law. In the first place, he was desirous to know if the Government had been informed that the want of proper sewerage in the Cavan workhouse had produced a malignant fever, by an attack of which the matron and porter of that workhouse had been carried off; whether the master of the workhouse had run away; and also if it were true that the house was now without its proper officers? In the second place, he wished to know if the poor rate in the Ballinasloe Union was levied this year as it had been last year, namely, by aid of military force? He was anxious also to be informed if it were true that the Board of Guardians of the Listowel Union had applied recently to the Government for the aid of an armed force, without which they said it was impossible to collect the poor rates in that Union? In the next place, he wished to ask if it were true that a poor-rate collector had been lately murdered in the county Roscommon; and lastly, he would ask whether the Government were about to abandon the existing Irish Poor Law, and to give to that country, as they were about to give to Scotland, a Poor Law suited to the wants and the circumstances of the people?
 Mr. Sergeant Murphy  said, it must be a subject of congratulation with every person, on whatever side, to know that, however disastrous to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, the contingency of removal from office might be, his hon. Friend opposite was ready, with that spontaneous profusion in which images flowed upon him, to vindicate his failure. It might be for antagonist leaders of political parties in that House to indulge in crimination and recrimination, and to contrast the differences of their present conduct and policy with that of former days. But he, as a Roman Catholic Member from Ireland, was not in a situation to adopt that course, which he would leave to others who had fought the battles of contested policy. He stood there on neutral ground, to consider what was the spirit of the policy of Her Majesty's Government towards Ireland, and to tell what he conscientiously believed would be the advantages to the peace of both countries, if it were accepted in a cordial spirit. It was in that spirit he came before the House; but, if he should transcend, in some measure, the calm spirit in which he would fain review the matter—if he too keenly resented certain taunts, which must gall his feelings where those whom he revered as the ministers of his religion had been insulted, he hoped it might be ascribed to the generous feelings of an Irishman. Reviewing certain speeches made on either side of the House, he would first address himself to that of the hon. Member for New castle-under-Lyne (Mr. Colquhoun), who, in an address remarkable for its ability, arrived at certain conclusions, which appeared to him startling and anomalous. These were, first, that the degree of ignorance existing in the College of Maynooth was lamentable and ridiculous, from which the hon. Member inferred that we ought to withhold any grant of money which would lay the axe at the root of the evil; and next, that there was something in the ascetic character of that institution wholly repugnant to the character which the people of this country would approve of in an Institution for the education of the Catholic clergy. If the hon. Member had known the sentiments of the people of Ireland as to educational institutions, he would have known that one of the
 745 l., l., l. 746 detur digniori, "His usual dress is a green surtout, a light waistcoat, and a dark pair of trousers. He generally displays a watch-chain on his breast, with a hunch of gold seals, unusually large in dimensions." "He can scarcely be called a dandy, yet he sacrifices a good deal to the graces, and for my part I hardly know any public man who dresses in better taste." Sibthorp: "His countenance is altogether unique; it stands out in broad relief from the countenances of all the other Members. Two or three other senators rejoice in tufts, and a few more in whiskers of decent proportion; but, compared with the moustaches and whiskers of the gallant Colonel, one feels indignant that they should be dignified by the name. You hardly know whether he has a mouth or not, it is so completely buried amidst the surrounding crop of hair, until he begins to speak. He
 747 "He will do and suffer a great deal for his party and principles, but rather than submit to be shaved, he would see Tories, Constitution, and all scattered to the winds." "He speaks very often, but generally on the details of some very unimportant Bill: I have known no one great principle or measure with which he is identified. He is a little man, round in the face, and of dark hair." "He is a man of exceedingly graceful proportions, and very retiring manners." * l. * 748 "He had been asked to give an historical view of the effects of Popery in this country, and he would attempt to do so. It was twenty years since that view first occurred to him, and during that period he had seen from day to day additional reasons for relying upon the fidelity of it. England, beyond all other nations of the world, had been made the depo-
 749 "Next came Cromwell, a guilty man, no doubt, because he had stained his hands unnecessarily in blood; but still a great man, who had redeemed by his glories as a king his errors as a subject. Then followed the second Charles, a weak and superstitious man, but not so deeply criminal as to draw down the vengeance of Heaven on his head. He was not a declared Papist," "Within twelve months of the passing of that measure (Catholic Emancipation) of which he was prohibited from giving an opinion, a greater number of extraordinary changes occurred in this country than ever were known before. The King—a popular King too—soon after he had put his signature to it, was carried from this world." Cries of
 Colonel Rawdon  said, he had entertained hopes that the hon. Member for Knaresborough would not have pressed his Motion for the printing of that petition. What, he would ask, would be the consequence, if the House agreed to the Motion of the hon. Member? The result would be, that on the following morning the petition to which it referred would be on the breakfast table of every Member of that House. He begged the House to recollect the Act of 1829, by which the Roman Catholics were emancipated, and to remember that so long after the Act of Emancipation had been carried, they would, if they agreed to the Motion of the
 686 "The Petitioners have learned with regret that a law has been introduced into your honourable House by the head of the Government, the object of which is to inculcate in public seminaries Popish doctrines, which are false, idolatrous, and Anti-Christian." 687
 Mr. Hume  was anxious to offer his opinion upon a subject which interested the country so deeply. He had paid considerable attention to the state of Ireland, and, therefore, desired to state the view he entertained in reference to the measure brought forward by the right hon. Baronet. The spirit of the hon. Gentleman (Major Beresford), who had begun this debate to-night, afforded a specimen of what the Irish Protestant was—a specimen of the opinions entertained by the class to which the hon. Gentleman belonged. The hon. Gentleman, who had just taken his seat, called upon them to recollect what had been the state of Ireland. The hon. Member had told them, and told them truly, and he recollected more, perhaps, than most of them in the House upon that subject—of the proceedings and transactions in that country, which every hon. Gentleman in that House must regret had ever taken place. Now what was the policy which the right hon. Baronet intended to pursue towards Ireland? The object of that policy was to remove the just grounds of complaint which existed on the part of the Roman Catholics for the injustice which had been exercised towards them. It was intended that Acts should be removed which had been always considered as acts of oppression. Such a course would put an end to the possibility of such scenes taking place as the hon. and gallant Gentleman stated to have taken place almost every year during the last century. It was because such was
 706 707 708 709 l., l., l. 710 l. l. l., l. l., 711 712 l.
 Mr. M. Gore  was particularly anxious to express his opinion with respect to a measure affecting a very large body of his fellow-citizens, for whom he entertained the highest regard and respect. He respected their principles, he reverenced their very
 757 758 "Homines dispersi ac rudes, eoque bello faciles, quieti et otio per voluptates assuescerent; hortari privatim, adjuvare publice, ut templa, fora, domus exstruerent laudando promptos, et castigando segnes, ita honoris æmulatio pro necessitate erat." 759 760
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  would not presume to answer any hostile remarks made by the hon. Member for Droitwich on the able and unanswerable speech delivered by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Edinburgh; but as there was a part of that hon. Member's remarks which related to other hon. Members, and which had reference to the two great parties into which the country was divided, he would venture to trespass on the House for a very few minutes. The hon. Member stated that in the electioneering contest, in 1841, no weapon was used by the Conservative party, such as the "No-Popery" cry. The hon. Member had evidently forgotten, or had thrown away one of the most powerful weapons of Conservative politics used by his party at the election. He did not charge the hon. Member himself with having used that weapon; but he wished he could cite there the Conservative constituencies throughout the country to bear him out in the assertion that "the Church in danger" was the weapon used by the party opposite throughout the country for the purpose of turning out the late Ministry, and placing themselves in power. They could not have forgotten that it was said of the proposition of the late Government as to the Irish Church that it was "a heavy blow and great discouragement to the Protestant religion." At all events, he knew that this weapon was used, and with great effect, at the elections against the party with which he was connected. The hon. Member said the measure ought to be tried on its own merits, and that a distinction ought not to be drawn between measures and men. The right hon. Member for Edinburgh declared that the country had a deep interest in the characters of public men, and though this measure should have his support, he
 723 l. l. l., l. 724 725 726 727
 Mr. Milnes  said, he should hardly have taken a part in this eager and anxious debate, had it not been for the circumstance that last year he had placed on the Books of the House a Resolution, praying the House to affirm that the endowment of the Roman Catholic priests of Ireland would be a wise and judicious measure. He could not deny that at that time his Motion met with the same reception from the House that the Bill of his right hon. Friend had met with from the country. And when he had come to answer his constituents for bringing forward that Motion, he did feel almost to a certainty, that an occasion would soon arrive when he should be called on in a more distinct and prominent manner to express himself On the subject. He did not, however, think that the Bill before the House contained any formal or distinct recognition on the part of Her Majesty's Ministers to carry out any distinct scheme for the endowment of the Roman Catholic clergy. When he proposed that Resolution to the House he did not ask the House to pledge itself to any particular scheme, but merely to the propriety of conciliating the Roman Ca-
 738 739 740 741 Loud laughter, and cries of 742 743 744
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, the object of the House, in requiring a Member to give notice of a motion for printing a petition, was with a view to oblige him to make a specific Motion on a subsequent day, not in connexion with any Bill before the House, because in that case he might move that every one of the petitions presented against the grant to Maynooth should be printed to-morrow, because he chose to call attention to them on the third reading. It was, therefore, clear that the hon. Member for Knaresborough must make a Motion in reference to this petition unconnected with the grant to Maynooth; and if he did so, he did not see that the House had the power of refusing it. The only exception in the case of printing a petition was, that when printed it should be confined to the use of Members, and if there was anything objectionable, or libellous, or calumnious in this petition, it would be better that it should be printed — as other petitions which were so honoured—for the use of Members only. With reference to his hon. and gallant Friend behind him, he must say that if he wished to give publicity and importance to the petition, he had taken the most effectual way of doing it; for whether the Motion was agreed to or not, he believed he would still find the objectionable passages of which he complained on his breakfast table. Some kind Friend in Dublin had favoured him (Mr. Duncombe) with a copy of the petition a few days ago, and he felt no great apprehension from it. He did not believe there was any great harm in it. There was a strong feeling that the right of petitioning was encroached upon by that House, and therefore, they ought to be
 692
 Mr. Redington  said, he still adhered to the opinion that Her Majesty on accepting the Crown of these realms did declare the worship of the Virgin Mary to be damnable and idolatrous.
 Mr. Redington  said, there could be no doubt that the petition contained a foul calumny against the Catholic religion—it was a foul libel, which was formerly sworn to by Members of that House, and similar expressions were now contained in the Coronation Oath. He thought, therefore, that under these circumstances the House exhibited too much squeamishness with respect to the petition presented by the hon. Member for Knaresborough. He was of opinion that it was a disgrace to the Sovereign of these realms to make her swear to such expressions.
 Major Beresford , in resuming the debate, after claiming the indulgence of the House for the observations he felt called on to make, said, he should address the House on the present occasion in the double capacity of an English Representative and an Irish Protestant; in the first character weighed by that feeling of diffidence, which, from so seldom addressing the House, he naturally endured; in the latter, feeling the awful responsibility of maintaining the Reformed Church in Ireland, which his ancestors had assisted to establish, and which, when established, they had for generation after generation continued to support and foster. Before he entered upon the subject in detail, he wished to add his congratulations to those which the right hon. Secretary at War offered the House last evening on the total absence of religious acrimony which had hitherto distinguished the debate. In his observations he should endeavour to preserve to the debate the same character. His feelings towards his Roman Catholic fellow-subjects were those of great kindness and the utmost liberality, and that liberality had not been of words only; it had been proved by deeds. Early in life he had marred his prospects for their cause. In 1823, when he was very young, at a time when a seat in that House was frequently at the disposal of persons in high station, he refused to enter the House of Commons, because he would not sit there without voting for Catholic Emancipation. If he had thus marred his prospects early in life, could he now be called a bigot because he voted against the present Bill? He was no bigot; but he did think that there was a limit to concession, particularly when concession had not been responded to as it ought to have been. They had been told
 693 Toujours en avant. ab initio 694 695 696 697 698
 Mr. Ferrand  said, it was not his intention to make a distinct Motion, and as he saw the sense of the House was against his present Motion, he should not press it.
 Mr. Ferrand  said, he had given notice last night of a Motion, which it was his intention to bring forward on the third reading of the Maynooth College Bill. The Motion was to the effect that the Charitable Bequests Act was a violation of the Act of Settlement, and a contravention of the Oath of Supremacy. He intended to found his Motion on the allegations contained in the petition; and i
 689
 Mr. Ferrand  rose to move—
 "That the Petition of Members of the Dublin Protestant Operative Association and Reformation Society, and other Protestants, praying the House forthwith to institute an inquiry into the conduct of the Right Honourable Sir Robert Peel, Baronet, M.P., and, if the premises of the Petitioners be correct, to impeach him for high crimes and misdemeanors against the Laws and Constitution of the Realm [presented 11th April], be printed;"
 Mr. S. Crawford  regretted that sentences which were insulting to their Roman Catholic fellow-subjects should be contained in any petition presented to that House. He should be as reluctant as any man, although opposing the grant to Maynooth, to do so upon any grounds which could be offensive to the principles or opinions of his Roman Catholic fellow-subjects. If the question should come to a division, he should feel bound to vote against the printing of the petition.
 Colonel Verner  felt confident that there was not an hon. Member in the House who could not give the hon. Member who had just sat down credit for the sincerity with which he had declared his sentiments. He could not recollect so far back as the hon. Member had stated he recollected; but if the hon. Member had given his support to the Roman Catholics of Ireland for sixty-seven years, he (Colonel Verner) could say that he had given his humble aid in favour of Protestantism for fifty years. It had not been originally his intention to have taken any part in the present debate; indeed, he might say that his intention had been to have abstained from doing so, seeing how useless it was; but when he observed so powerful and so general a feeling throughout the Kingdom against the Bill, and when that feeling had been endeavoured to be conveyed to the House, by the shower of petitions which had been laid upon that Table, he did not think that he would be discharging his duty to himself or to those he represented by giving a silent vote. The hon. Member said he could not agree in opinion with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Newark, who had so recently withdrawn himself from the framers and promoters of the Bill, and who had so fully qualified himself to return to them again, that the petitions presented to the House were not to be taken as representing the sentiments of the people. He had always understood that there were but two ways by which the people could approach that House, in order to make known their wishes. The one was by petition—the other through their Representatives. In the present instance they had tried both—they had poured in their petitions by thousands, and they had accompanied the petitions by an unanimous call upon their Representatives to support their prayer. What more, he would ask, could they do? Had a contrary opinion been prevalent throughout the country, surely those who approved of the measure
 701
 Sir James Graham  said, that he certainly regretted the passage in the petition which the hon. and gallant Officer the Member for Armagh had brought under the notice of the House. He regretted that any petitioners should have used language so painful and so offensive towards a large portion of Her Majesty's subjects. It was not on the present occasion that he should feel under the necessity of entering into a discussion upon that point, much less was it any part of his duty to enter upon the present occasion into a discussion upon the terms in which the Coronation Oath was couched. As to the point of order, he agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Oxford. He thought it was a general rule of the House, subject to exceptions in some peculiar cases, that when one hon. Member pledged himself on presenting a petition to bring it under the special notice of the House in the shape of a Motion, it was, as a matter of course, to be printed with the Votes. The question then arose whether there was anything so special in the circumstances of this petition as to prevent the operation of the usual rule? He had said that the language of the petition was of an unusual kind, but he did not think that the language was such as to take it out of the general rule. Then came the question as to the allegation, that the First Minister of the Crown had been guilty of high crimes and misdemeanors — was that allegation a reason that the House should refuse to print the petition? Now, the hon. Member for Knaresborough had said that he should make that allegation the subject of a Motion. Was he right? [Mr.  Ferrand:
 Sir John Hanmer  said: Although this Bill has had the advantage of the great
 750 751 l. l. 752 753 754 Hansard 755
 Mr. Pakington  said, he quite agreed with his hon. Friend who had just sat down, that it was not possible, nor indeed desirable, to exclude religious considerations from the discussion of this measure; but, he thought his hon. Friend had by no means succeeded in showing that the Roman Catholics of Ireland were themselves able to supply the 17,00 l. 719 720 721 722
 Sir R. Inglis  supposed the next measure of Her Majesty's Government would be a measure to do away with the passage referred to by the hon. Gentleman who spoke last, especially as his remarks had been so loudly cheered by the other side. But he rose for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to the practice of the House, that when a petition was ordered to lie on the Table, it was almost a matter of course that it should be printed with the Votes, when an hon. Member declared his intention of making a Motion upon it. That was the usual course, without any reference to the language of the petition, and upon that ground alone he should vote for the Motion of the hon. Member for Knaresborough.
 Sir T. Fremantle  said, it was true that the matron and the porter of the Cavan workhouse had been attacked with malignant fever, but there was no reason to conclude, or even to suppose, that this attack of fever had arisen from want of proper sewerage in the workhouse. The Commissioners had not received any intelligence to the effect that the master of the Cavan workhouse had resigned, or that he had run away, as the hon. Gentleman
 685
 Mr. Smythe : I remember to have read, Sir, a remark made by the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Treasury, when he proposed a measure somewhat analogous to this — I mean when he brought forward the Catholic Relief Bill—when be stated, that one of the reasons which induced him to anticipate that the measure must, sooner or later, be carried, was the fact that all the young men of the day who had recently come from the universities, were in favour of Catholic Emancipation. I think it rather strange that in the course of these debates, and in the right hon. Gentleman's own Government, we may remark the same distinctions. We see the right hon. Gentleman, who has upon this occasion pursued a liberal, a wise, and a conciliatory course, followed in that liberal, and wise, and conciliatory course by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War (Mr. S. Herbert), and by my noble Friend who has addressed the House this evening, the Member for Lynn (Lord Jocelyn), whilst at the same time we find the right boa. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer still so true to his ancient reminiscences, that be cannot speak of the Roman Catholic priests, even in bringing in a measure of grace and of concession, with out saying that the education at May-
 834 835 "My tongue has sworn it, but my mind is unsworn." 836 "De civitate decedere maluit quam de sententia." 837 838 anni mirabiles 839 cy-pres 840 entente cordiale entente cordiale
 Lord Ashley  said: Sir, the position of those who vote for this Bill is far more favourable than the position of those who undertake to oppose it. They speak both on behalf of themselves and of many now present, whose principles and feelings are deeply interested in the question. We, on the contrary, have to urge what may be considered speculative opinions against what they maintain to be actual realities, and we have, moreover, to speak against the feelings and affections of many Gentlemen who are now listening; differing from us in religious opinions, with many of whom we are living on terms of friendship and intimacy, and for whom we entertain the sincerest respect. I, for one, feel a repugnance I can scarcely describe in resisting this Motion, to incur the appearance of casting reflections on the principles and practices of those Gentlemen who conscientiously believe the religion they profess. But, Sir, the question has been propounded by Her Majesty's Government, and we must address ourselves to it, as well and with as much forbearance as we can. I most unwillingly trespass on the attention of the House on this occasion; indeed, I have so often to address it in connexion with measures of my own, that in general I abstain from joining these discussions, and I would have done so in the present instance had I found it possible to withhold altogether my opinion on a subject that must excite such painful anxiety. This question, Sir, ought to receive from us the fullest and most minute investigation. It exceeds in importance any measure ever offered to this House, for good or for evil. I have never known any measure more important, for good or for evil, in Ireland. It very much exceeds in importance the Roman
 775 776 l. Sheil: 777 778 779 l. 780 "In Ireland it was a point of honour with Catholics that the University of Dublin should be thrown open. The revenue of the University amounted to nearly 40,000 l. 781
 Lord J. Manners : Sir, the hon. Member for Durham has applied epithets to the speech of the noble Lord the Member for Bandon, which, had they come from any other hon. Member of this House, I should have considered rather strong. That speech was characterized by a knowledge of eccle-
 824 825 "Speak gently of our sister's fall, Who knows but gentle love May win her, at her patient call, The surer way to prove." 826 827 828 "The priests, those gentle priests and good, their fathers loved to hear, Sole type below, midst work and woe, of the God whom they revere;" 829 830 831
 Mr. Rutherfurd  thought that the arguments in favour of the grant were unanswerable. In what position did they find the question? They found the College of Maynooth established in 1795, when Ireland was under the government of an exclusively Protestant Legislature and Executive—a Legislature and Executive certainly extremely jealous of the rights and interests of Protestantism. They then found this College continued, by Acts of the Imperial Legislature, for fifty years, and made the subject of annual grants by the House of Commons. The hon. and learned Gentleman then argued, with respect to the question of compact, that there was no compact to prevent Parliament from interfering, if Maynooth were an establishment dangerous to the safety of the realm. The question, as it appeared to him, became narrowed into a very small compass, when it was found that no section of the House, nor, as he believed, any individual in it—certainly not any individual of great authority and weight—had ventured to propose that Maynooth should be abolished, or the Parliamentary grant withdrawn. The question, then, he conceived, must be argued upon the admission that the grant must not be withdrawn, but that it must continue to receive that public support which, for fifty years, it had obtained from that House. Next, it was to be considered whether a case had been made out for the grant now proposed. Upon
 832 833
 Mr. Goring  deeply regretted that Her Majesty's Ministers had thought it their duty to introduce such a measure; the consequence of their doing so was that he was now unable to place that confidence in them which had hitherto been his pleasure. Whether there had been any compact with Parliament that Maynooth should be supported, he did not know; but he had always understood and believed that there was a compact between Her Majesty's Ministers and the Protestant Church in this country. When they found it was expedient that any other of our old and hallowed institutions should be destroyed, he had no doubt they would be ready to make the sacrifice. After their conduct, in regard to this measure, he could put no trust in them that they would support or maintain the Corn Laws. When they found it expedient, they would sacrifice the agricultural interest, as they
 774
 Mr. Speaker  said, that the hon. and gallant Officer was not in order, for he could not make the Motion of which he had given notice at present. The Motion itself would, in his opinion, be unnecessary, because the information sought for would be laid upon the Table of the House in the Report of the Committee upon Public Petitions in a few days.
 Mr. Speaker  said, according to the statement in the "Votes," that the original Question was, "That the Order of the Day be now read." The only Amendment that could be moved would be, to proceed with another Order of the Day. It was not, therefore, competent for the hon. and gallant Gentleman to bring forward his proposition before the other Orders of the Day on a Wednesday evening.
 Colonel Sibthorp  would at once bow to the authority of the Chair, if the Speaker was of opinion that he was not in order.
 Mr. E. Ellice  (Coventry)  said, that it was not his intention (contrary to his ge-
 769 Regium Donum, 770 771 Regium Donum, 772 l. l. l. 773
 Mr. George A. Hamilton  did not hesitate to confess that it was with some reluctance, but under a most imperative sense of duty, that he felt himself compelled to vote against the measure before the House. He could easily understand the motive by which Government was actuated in proposing that measure—the desire, namely, of conciliating the Roman Catholic population of Ireland, of showing good will and good feeling towards them, by making what they might consider a liberal and suitable provision for the education of their clergy. He (Mr. Hamilton) was perfectly ready to admit that it was most desirable that the respect and attachment of the population of Ireland towards the British Legislature and the British Government should, if possible, be secured by wise and just measures. There was no Member in the House more anxious than himself that all irritating topics, and all causes of dissension in Ireland, should be consigned to oblivion, and that each party in that country should hold out the right hand of fellowship to the other. He felt the peculiar importance of this at the present juncture of affairs in that country. To promote or effect this, there were no lengths he would not go, consistently with higher obligations; and he did not hesitate to say, that if he believed the measure now proposed would have the effect which Her Majesty's Government contem-
 763 764 765 Regium Donum 766 767 768
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said: Sir, in common with many others who have addressed the House on this subject, I am about to take a course which is at variance with the opinions of many valued friends, and contrary to the feelings of those whom I am bound on every principle to respect; I am, therefore, anxious to state the grounds on which I feel it my duty to support the course which I have, as a Member of Her Majesty's Government, concurred in recommending to Parliament. I agree with my noble Friend
 782 l. l., 783 784 785 786 "Whereas, by the laws now in force in this kingdom, it is not lawful to endow any seminary for the purpose of educating persons in the Roman Catholic religion." 787 788 789 790 791 l., 792 793 794 795 796 797 l.
 Mr. Bright  was anxious to make a few observations on the principle on which he should give his vote; because he believed he should be obliged to pass into the lobby along with a number of Members of the House from whose principles he entirely dissented; and, after the speech of the noble Lord the Member for Bandon, he thought that any one who voted with him had need to explain why he voted on his side, for anything more unlike the principles of the present day, more intolerant, or more insane with respect to the policy to be pursued towards Ireland he had never heard; and he could not have believed that any man coming from that country could have used such language in addressing that House. He did not think that this question was to be looked at in a favourable or unfavourable light because of the party from whom it came. Some hon. Members had charged the right hon. Baronet with inconsistency, and had in some degree thrown the blame of his conduct on the measure which he had introduced. The right hon. Baronet had, from unfortunate circumstances, been connected with a party in Opposition of such a nature, that he could never promote any good measure whilst in power without being charged, and justly, with inconsistent conduct. But he would look at the measure as a measure by itself, and, if it were a good measure he would vote for it as willingly, coming from the present Government as if it came from the Government which had preceded it. But he objected to this measure on the ground, that it proposed to vote some of the public taxes for the purpose of maintaining an institution purely ecclesiastical, and for the rearing and educating of the priests of a particular sect. He was the more strongly against the Bill, because, from all that had been said on
 819 l. l. l. 820 821 l. Regium Donum 822 823
 Mr. Roebuck  rose to order. He submitted that it was not competent to the hon. and gallant Member to make such a Motion on the reading of the first Order of the Day.
 Mr. Redington  could not, as one of the Representatives of Ireland, give a silent vote on the present question. Maynooth had not had a fair trial, and it was time that some justice was done to that institution. It had been asked in the course of the debate why the Roman Catholics of Ireland did not come forward with the necessary funds, and themselves endow the College of Maynooth, where their clergy were educated and trained? He would tell those who asked this question, that England had banished the priests from their native shores, and compelled them to seek refuge abroad; she had also prohibited the Roman Catholic worship in Ireland, and had enforced heavy penalties against those who professed that faith. Mr. Pitt came and established the College of Maynooth; and let him ask was it to be expected, that with an endowment of 9,000 l. 841 842
 Mr. Ferrand  hoped he should be allowed to observe that his authority was an Irish Peer, and a statement to the same effect had been publicly made in the  Dublin Evening Mail.
 Mr. Ferrand , pursuant to notice, inquired of the Secretary for Ireland whether, at the late election of a temporal Peer of Ireland, one or more noble Lords did not decline to vote on account of the Irish Bequests Act being a contravention of the Oath of Supremacy; whether the Crown lawyers were consulted upon the validity of this objection; and, if so, whether the right hon. Baronet would lay a copy of their opinion on the Table of the House?
 Sir John Easthope  said that he stood, in common with many of his friends about him, in the position of having presented a very large number of petitions against the measure, and among the rest one emanating from one of the largest meetings which had ever been held among those who had sent him to Parliament. He had presented that petition. One of its allegations was that the present grant was the first step in supplanting Protestantism, to be replaced by Popery. Now he could not conceal from himself that the great exaggeration involved in this statement had had no slight effect on the people at large with reference to the number of petitions which had oppressed their Table. But while he regretted that any misstatement or exaggeration such as this should have gone abroad—to create anxiety for which there was no sound cause, and alarm which he believed to be totally unfounded—he gathered even from this source some comfort, which set his mind at rest on the score of the fears expressed for, and the dangers anticipated to, the Protestant cause and the Protestant Church in this country. From what he saw, he was assured that no Minister, however strong—that no party, however,
 812 813 Loud cries 814 of
 Sir R. Peel  moved that the Order of the Day be read. Colonel  Sibthorp "That there be laid before this House a Return of the Numbers of Petitions that have been presented for and against the present proposal on the part of Her Majesty's Government of an increased grant out of the Consolidated Fund to the College of Maynooth in Ireland, with the total Number of Signatures thereto."
 Sir T. Fremantle  had made inquiry, and endeavoured to ascertain whether there were any ground for such a statement. He could not learn that this had been the case: and with reference to the opinion of the law officers of the Crown, he fell very well satisfied that no opinion on the subject had been given.
 Sir W. Clay  said: No one could well have stronger personal motives than himself for opposing the Bill. In the large constituency he represented, there was a widely-spread feeling against the measure; and this feeling was participated in by many persons for whose steady support he felt most grateful, and with whom it was most painful to him to differ in opinion on the present occasion. He could not, however, permit himself to be influenced by such considerations. He was, on the maturest consideration, satisfied
 798 799 800 "They entertained the conscientious conviction that the application of the public money to any class of religionists is hurtful to religion, and infringes on the rights of conscience." "To uphold the existence of the Irish Church Establishment, by inflicting a still greater wrong upon every class of Protestant Dissenters throughout the kingdom." "Professing their unfeigned attachment to the doctrine, discipline, and formularies of the United Church of England and Ireland, and their conviction that a blow and discouragement, inflicted upon the Establishments in either country, materially endangers the principles of an Establishment in both." 801 802 803 804
 Viscount Bernard  considered that all party or personal feelings were but as dust in the balance when compared with the momentous question they were called upon to decide; and he must express his deep regret that upon this subject he felt himself compelled to give a vote in direct opposition to those to whom upon all other occasions he had been able to give his most cordial support. He would, with the permission of the House, state the grounds on which he intended to give his vote against the Bill. He had, on former occasions, opposed the annual grant for the support of the College of Maynooth, and he had yet to learn on what grounds he could now be called upon to pursue a contrary course. In considering this measure, he asked himself two questions—first, "Is this nation bound by any compact to continue the grant to Maynooth?" and then, "If we are unfettered by any compact, can I conscientiously assist in supporting a religion I do not believe to be true, and in preventing the extension of one which I believe to be true?" In his opinion this country was not bound by any compact to continue the grant. He would not trouble the House by again calling their attention to the speeches of the various Lords Lieutenant of Ireland—Lords Westmorland, Fitzwilliam, and Camden—on this subject. It was enough to state that the grant was first made in 1795, to prevent the Roman Catholic priests from receiving an education abroad which might imbue their minds with principles dangerous to the peace and safety of the State. He might remind the House that at that time it was notoriously the object of Wolfe Tone and Mr. Emmet to establish a democratic university for the education of the priests. He held in his hand a pamphlet on this subject, published in 1799, which, with reference to the Act of 1795, establishing the Maynooth grant, that—
 "The Secretary represented that it was more the interest of the State to permit Romanists to found a seminary for the education of their youth at home, than, by refusing such permission, to incline them to send them abroad to Romish seminaries; and that it was becoming the liberty of the nation to give them some aid towards the institution. These representations were plausible, and no Member of either House thought it a matter of sufficient import-
 805 "In every subsequent Session a regular charge of 8,000 l. "The Minister was very hard pushed in the year 1798 in carrying the grant of 8,000 l. Annual Register, l. Annual Register l. l. 806 807 808 809 "Think nothing gained, they cry, while aught remains; On Dublin's walls till Romish standards fly, And all is ours beneath the Irish sky." 810 "The penal Statutes of the present day, are the Irish Church, and the whole vicious system of legislation dependent on it." "Recollect that the Irish people will give you no provocation, no excuse; so that the time and circumstances will not be of your own choosing; they will bide their time; they may take it when you are engaged in a foreign conflict, and when a fleet of steamers may speedily carry a friendly army to their shores—friendly to them, but hostile to you; they may take it, when they find you occupied with your own internal commotions; when the summer of '42 returns, with a return of your commercial embarrassments." "With all my tenderness for the Roman Catholic religion, I still think it a poor religion for the adherents, and a terrible one for Protestant neighbours. A devout practice of it will, I trust, fit men for the next world, but it does not qualify for this world; especially as times have been since the Reformation. I know, and I am glad to think, that a Roman Catholic and a Church of England man may, in ordinary circumstances, go on very comfortably together.  * * * * * * 811 "Facilis descensus Averni: Sed revocare gradum, superasque evadere ad auras, Hoc opus, hic labor est."
 Viscount Jocelyn  said, that his noble Friend who had lately spoken represented the sentiments of a large body of Irish Protestants—of a body of men for whom he
 815 816 817 818 l.
 Mr. Gladstone  wished to offer a brief explanation with regard to a few words which had fallen from him in a speech in this debate, and which appeared to have been misapprehended. Those words referred to the important question of the payment of the Roman Catholic clergy. What he had said on that subject, he believed to have been this, that he felt that the acceptance of this measure would put out of the way and dispose of the religious objection to the further measure of the payment of the clergy. He could not conceal from himself that if he voted for that Bill in the present Session, he could not in a future Session profess, on the ground of a religious scruple, to oppose the payment of the clergy of that Church; and the same, he thought, might probably be the case with others. At the same time he stated, that it appeared to him that other great questions would arise in connexion with the subject of the payment of the Roman Catholic priesthood, and that objections other than religious would be made to it, which might or might not prove insurmountable. Although what he either said or meant was unimportant in itself, he wished to exempt the Government from the supposition that he had revealed some covert intention which they entertained. He ought to say, injustice and in common fairness to them, that he had no knowledge or recollection which led him to suppose that they entertained any intention of this sort. He had no knowledge of their intention other than that which was possessed by every Gentleman who heard him at that moment; and nothing, as he had stated, which he had either recollected or had heard, justified him in supposing that they had any view of the sort which seemed to be suspected.
 Mr. Carew  agreed with the hon. Member for Kent, that this question had been taken up as a religious one, though he by no means was prepared to admit its opponents were justified in that course. We owed a debt of kindness to the people of Ireland; they had been to us, for fifty years, in the nature of tenants at will; a class of tenants
 907
 Lord Leveson  would not enter on the question how far the Government deserved the censure so liberally bestowed on it by those hon. Gentlemen behind Ministers. He thought, after the speeches heard during this debate, it was pretty evident the Government must begin to regret a little the line of policy they adopted in Opposition. He did not wish to dwell on that topic; he should support the present measure, because he thought it good in itself, and because it was unaccompanied by any ungracious and insulting restrictions. He must add, too, from what he had seen of the state of the country, and the speeches made in that House, that no other party but that of the right hon. Gentleman could carry such a measure. Allusion had been made to the length of this debate; he did think it a matter of regret that it afforded opportunity of exciting conscientious bodies of men, through speeches which reflected the sentiments of those who guided a large portion of the public. He regretted, too, that an opportunity seemed to be afforded by it, of which Christian ministers availed themselves, to rouse feelings of hostility and ill-will towards their fellow subjects and fellow Christians. But, on the other hand, he thought that such speeches as that of the right hon. Member for Devonport that night must do good, inasmuch as it demonstrated the policy, justice, and necessity of the measure now proposed. When he called to mind, too, the speech of the noble Lord the Member for Dorsetshire, the tone of which was admirable towards the people of Ireland—a speech which, while it opposed the measure now proposed, appeared to him to place in the clearest light the ano-
 908 909
 Mr. Cumming Bruce  had felt it to be his duty, when this measure was first introduced, in compliance with what he knew to be the feelings of his constituents, not less than from his own convictions, to record his protest against it. Not having had the fortune to catch the eye of the Chair till a late period in that debate, and till the House had arrived at those small hours when it was accustomed—not unnaturally—to display what, on such a question, he would venture to call an ignorant impatience of discussion, with which fourteen years' experience had taught him it was useless to contend—he had merely stated the conclusions to which he had come, without attempting to explain the grounds on which he had come to them. His conclusions were against the Bill, both on principle and on expediency. His right hon. Friend the late President of the Board of Trade—and why be should have compelled him to address him as the late President, he was utterly at a loss to imagine—was unable to find any principle on which to rest his opposition to this measure; and on that system—he would not call it principle—of compromise, which he had adopted as a necessity of nations—of man in his collective and social capacity—his right hon. Friend had determined to give his support to the Government on grounds of expediency. For himself, he (Mr. C. Bruce) could never believe that true principle was opposed to sound expediency. As we might always find the principle of a Bill in its details, so, he believed, that you might always discover the expediency of every measure really involved in the correctness of its principle. But his right hon. Friend could find no principle on which to rest his opposition to this Bill in a thing so vague, so inde-
 861 alma mater; 862 l. l., l. l., 863 864 "His was a noble mind in a rude state Of wild, distorted virtue—'cross the fancy It stalks a gloomy, dark, majestic shade, Angel or fiend, we know not." 865 866 867 868 "These twenty years I had to do with these Roman Catholic bishops, I never found any of them either to speak the truth or perform his promise to me, laying at the same time his hand on his heart, and adding, 'as I am a Christian'—of which action and asseveration I took indeed the more especial notice there, and now again do here, that I never observed him before or after to have averred or denied anything in that manner." "Chiefly the titular bishops, and the superiors of regular orders, took an effectual course, under the specious colour of religion, to add continually new fuel to the burning coals, and prepare them for a flame on the first opportunity." 869 l. "He could not, however, concur in an observation of the noble Lord (Lord Morpeth). He did not think there existed such a compact as ought to prevent the interference of the Legislature, if the grant should be perverted to evil purposes. He could not agree in the opinion that the system of instruction pursued at Maynooth ought to be a matter of indifference to the House. He had not heard that observation made by the noble Lord, but he had heard it imputed to him, and he had not seen, on the part of the noble Lord, any energetic denial of it. Now, the system of education was a legitimate matter for the consideration of Parliament; and the House would abandon its duty if it were to avow the doctrine, that, because the grant had continued for thirty years, it was therefore pledged to say to Maynooth, 'you may inculcate what doctrine you please, however injurious to the supremacy of the law, and destructive to the Established Government and Monarchy of the Empire.' If an opinion of that kind were put forward, he for one would never concur in it; and he thought it should be repudiated by every Member of the House. A misappropriation of the grant would form a very proper subject of inquiry, and if it were proved, the question might be submitted to the House, whether on that ground the vote ought not to be discontinued," 870 l. 871 872
 Colonel Sibthorp  hoped he should receive the kind indulgence of the House in trespassing for a very short time on their attention. He felt some difficulty in presenting himself at that moment, as he was in some measure disarmed of those weapons which he hoped to have wielded effectually. If the Motion of the hon. Member for Newcastle (Mr. Colquhoun) should not be carried, and the proposition should take its place for giving the old grant to Maynooth, he would now, as he had done during eighteen years already, give it his most decided, his most deter-
 885 886 Joe Miller. nobile frairum 887 888
 Mr. Wykeham Martin : Sir, as I am nearly in the same situation with the hon. Member for Dover, I must entreat a similar indulgence at the hands of the House; for, having the misfortune to differ with many of my constituents for whom I entertain the sincerest respect, I feel it my duty to endeavour to explain the reasons of the vote I am about to give in support of the proposition of the Govern-
 902 903 in pro conscientiâ 904 Regium Donum. 905
 Mr. Maclean  stated, that the argument adduced by the right hon. Gentleman in support of the Bill was simply, that because the House had violated a principle in 1795, and had continued since to do so, that was a reason for increasing the extent to which this violation of principle was to be carried. Now, he thought before the grant was assented to, the country was entitled to examine into the principles of the education carried on at the College of Maynooth; and he must say that it really did appear to him to be most shocking for the House to be acceding to an increase in the grant, which in its original amount was most objectionable, without instituting the slightest examination into the doctrines taught in that establishment for the support of which it was intended. He could not but consider, also, that there was another objection to the grant, which was the ultimate result to which it evidently tended. In the year 1825, when the noble Lord the Member for South Lancashire (Lord F. Egerton) brought forward his Motion for endowing the Roman Catholic clergy, the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) then stated, that his objections to such a Motion rested chiefly on the ground that if the proposal embodied in it were carried into effect, the whole body of Dissenters in the kingdom would be entitled to claim the same endowment, and thus enormous difficulties in the administration of the public affairs would be created. This grant could only be the first step towards an endowment of the Roman Catholic clergy for it was but fair and reasonable that they should not be sent into the world to live on the eleemosynary donations of their flocks. If these measures were contemplated by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Newark, there could be no earthly reason for his leaving the Cabinet. Surely the
 930 931
 Mr. E. R. Rice  said, many of his constituents having expressed their opinions strongly in opposition to this measure, he was anxious to state in a few words the reasons which prevented his acting in accordance with those opinions. He could understand the course adopted by those hon. Members who had always opposed this grant in refusing now to consent to its augmentation; but as to those who had either supported it in former years, or—which he considered the same thing—had suffered it to pass the House without adding their names to the small minorities by which it was opposed, he confessed he was at a loss to understand on what principle they now, for the first time, opposed it, when it was proposed to make it efficient for the purposes for which it was originally intended. But there was another class of opponents whose objections were founded on conscientious religious scruples. He would not now repeat the arguments that had been so frequently urged in this debate to show that no new principle was involved in this measure; but he fully concurred in the opinion expressed on this point by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War. Neither would he argue the question of compact; it was sufficient for him, on this point, that for upwards of fifty years Ministers and statesmen of all parties had not only not opposed, but had recommended the renewal of this grant, on the
 891 892
 Mr. Tuite  assured the House that a very large proportion of the Protestants of Ireland approved of the measure now before them, and were grateful to Government for the liberal part it had taken. In his own opinion the measure would be generally well received in Ireland, and there could be no doubt it would tend to benefit and strengthen the Empire. There were not wanting persons who cavilled at the measure because it was in opposition to the sentiments formerly entertained by its promoters. Men of liberal
 906 l.
 Mr. Plumptre  said the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had stated his determination to vote contrary to the opinions of his constituents on this subject. He (Mr. Plumptre) was sure the hon. Gentleman's determination would give much dissatisfaction to his constituents, and he was sorry any thing should happen to weaken the confidence which they were disposed to place in the hon. Gentleman. He (Mr. Plumptre) had come to the consideration of this subject with much pain and anxiety. He was in the habit of hearing many remarks directed against himself, under the title of the Member for Kent, which certainly were not of the pleasantest description, and which, perhaps, might be intended to act as "a heavy blow and a great discouragement" to him in the humble yet hearty defence he endeavoured to make of Protestant principles. Though those remarks might be unpleasant, they had not yet had the effect of crushing the feeling or diminishing the desire which he still entertained, and should entertain, deeply, yet honestly, to maintain the course which he had ever maintained in that House. The hon. Member for Lambeth the other night had said that, judging from the number of petitions sent to that House on the subject, the movement out of doors must lead to the conclusion that the question was looked on as one of vital importance. That was the view the people of this country took upon the subject. They considered it a subject of vital importance—and why? Because their dearest feelings—their feelings on religion—were bound up with the consideration of the subject. His hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland, speaking of this subject, had said that he proposed to set aside the religious considerations of the subject; and the hon. Member for Montrose had said that religion had nothing to do with the
 893 in extenso, "That whereas Great Britain is, by its constitution essentially and pre-eminently a Protestant country, is bound by many public
 894 895 Maynooth, the Crown, and the Country, "We do not deny that the Governments of France, Austria, and Spain, and those likewise of Russia and of Prussia, afford support to ecclesiastical institutions of the Roman Catholic religion. Indeed we might observe, it has not yet been shown what benefits they derive, in their civil character, from the encouragement of Romanism as such. We have heard, for instance, something recently of collisions at Cologne between the temporal and spiritual power, and we have seen in the last year that the same ecclesiastic, who resisted his Sovereign on the banks of the Rhine, was soon after received by the Pope with marked honour and public commendation on those of the Tiber. But we do not pause to inquire further into cases of this description, but proceed to ask why, if Russia and Prussia, two of the Stales enumerated, are satisfied that the system of ecclesiastical polity which we have established, and are still maintaining in unrestrained liberty and in uncontrolled energy at Maynooth, is inoffensive and innoxious to the public weal, have they taken such pains to exclude it? But are not, then, Roman Catholic priests and bishops educated and maintained in Russia and Prussia at the public charge? Doubtless they are; but let us observe under what restrictions they enter upon and exercise their functions. They are bound hand and foot by civil laws; they cannot undertake their office without the approval of the Government, and are generally nominated by the Crown; and when appointed to
 896 Cœnœ Domini, "Is the bull  Cœnœ Domini Cœnæ Domini 897
 Mr. Trelawny  felt bound to explain the grounds of his vote on the question before the House, because he had avowed himself to be a firm supporter (as a general rule) of the voluntary principle as the only legitimate source of ecclesiastical
 898 899 900
 Mr. Spooner  said, had he followed the dictates of his own feelings, he should have given a silent vote on the present occasion; but representing, as he did, a large constituency who felt deeply and had spoken loudly on the question, he should not be doing his duty to those constituents were he to give a silent vote. In answer to the noble Lord who spoke last, he begged to say that he was not haggling about a few miserable pounds; he did not look on it as a money question, nor did any of his hon. Friends around him. The opposition to the measure rested on a far sounder basis—the basis of religious principle. The right hon. Member for Edinburgh divided the opponents of this measure into three classes. First, those who had hitherto voted for the grant of 9,000 l., 910 "I come now to an objection which I should be very sorry to treat lightly, that is, that the Church of Rome teaches error, and that we are therefore not justified, either as individuals or as a State, in contributing to the propagation of it. I must say that I altogether deny the soundness of that proposition. I say that it is not true that there are no cases in which it may not be justifiable to contribute even to the propagation of religious error." 911 "He disclaimed the odious principle of intolerance. The memorial of the Catholics which led to the establishment of Maynooth, claimed no pecuniary aid. The Catholics promised to defray the whole expense themselves; and though the Government and Parliament gave them 8,000 l. 912 "He could not agree in the opinion that the system of instruction pursued at Maynooth ought to be a matter of indifference to the House. The system of education was a legitimate matter for the consideration of Parliament; and the House would abandon its duty, if it were to avow the doctrine that because the grant had been continued for thirty years, it was therefore pledged to say to Maynooth, you may inculcate what doctrine you please, however injurious to the supremacy of the law, and detrimental to the established Government and monarchy of the empire." 913 914
 Mr. Blackstone  said it was with considerable pain that he rose to address the House on this question, because he felt that it had become his duty to differ from those with whom he had usually acted, and from some of his dearest friends and most intimate associates. He could assure the House that he was not prompted by any personal feelings or considerations, and that the course he was about to take was a straightforward and an honest one. He made no complaint against Her Majesty's Ministers for having taken the country by surprise; for it was well known that the Speech of Her Majesty on the first day of the Session announced that there was an intention to alter the existing academical institutions of Ireland; and the speech of the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) had opened the eyes of the public to the fact that this grant must come under consideration. Possibly, however, the Government might have been taken by surprise when they witnessed the
 889 890
 Sir G. Grey  said, that notwithstanding the length to which the debate had been protracted, and notwithstanding the number of Gentlemen who naturally, from the excited state of the public mind, were anxious to address the House upon this question, he was desirous of being allowed an opportunity, before the debate was brought to a close, of stating as briefly as might be the grounds of the vote which it was his intention to give on this occasion. And he was the more desirous of doing so, because that vote would, in common he believed with those of many other hon. Gentlemen, be in opposition to the conscientious opposition and the strong remonstrances of the friends and supporters
 874 l. l. l., l. l. 875 876 877 878 879 880 881 882 883 884
 Sir J. Graham  said: Sir, the right hon. Baronet the Member for Devonport, towards the close of the able speech which he addressed to the House in the early part of this evening, very naturally expressed an opinion that before the close of this protracted debate it would be my duty to offer some observations to the House; and, although I may regret on some grounds that the debate has been so prolonged, yet there are reasons why I think neither the Government nor the country has any reason to regret the prolongation
 915 916 917 918 Shaw: 919 920 s. 921 922 923 924 pro tanto, 925 Regium Donum, 926 l. 927 928 929
 Lord Courtenay  would not shrink from the responsibility of giving his support to what he considered to be a just and wise measure. It was from no insensibility to the deep and earnest opposition which the measure before the House encountered—it was from no insensibility to all the great considerations involved in the question, that he with equal sincerity had resolved upon taking an opposite course to those hon. Members who refused to assent to the proposition. He thought hon. Members had been led away by their excited feelings, and by popular clamour, so as entirely to overlook the existing state of things in Ireland. It appeared to him that on the subject before the House he had two questions to ask himself. The first was, had the measure of Her Majesty's Government a tendency to benefit that ill-used and interesting country; and, if so, on what grounds was he precluded, on principles of sound legislation, from giving his support to it? He agreed with other hon. Members who had preceded him in thinking that in the proposal for an increased grant to Maynooth no new principle was asserted. No one who had spoken on the subject had succeeded in convincing the House that any principle different from that which the House annually recognised in our Colonial dependencies had been asserted. If that principle was right in the case of the Colonies, then the principle of the grant, year by year, to Ireland, taking the circumstances of that country into consideration, was equally right. He would simply invite the attention of the House to the religious state of Ireland. Let them look at the fact that 7,000,000 of the population, comprising
 901
 Mr. Duncombe  did not think that the Motion of the noble Lord went far enough. He was of opinion that the Reports ought to be accompanied with certain statements and documents which were in the possession of the Board of Trade, and on which their decisions were founded. They had been told that a strong feeling existed in the public mind with reference to the alleged reception of  ex parte
 Lord C. Hamilton : I trust the House will excuse me if I do not follow the hon. Member who has just sat down into his arguments on the voluntary principle; but I must be permitted to remark upon his observations respecting the Dissenters in England. Does he mean to say, that there is any analogy between the position of any body of Dissenters in this country, and the Roman Catholics of Ireland? I confess, when I hear such a comparison, it does appear to me to furnish the only valid argument, if any can be valid, for the Repeal of the Union; for it does show such a lamentable ignorance of the peculiar position of the Irish Roman Catholics, and of the peculiarities of that country, as almost to justify the assumption that those who use it are unfit to legislate for Ireland. The situation of the Roman Catholics of Ireland is not only totally unlike, and distinct from, that of any body of Dissenters in England, but is without precedent or example in any part of the universe. But if it could be shown that there was any body of Dissenters in England placed in similar circumstances, that would not meet the case. Why do you attempt to refer the Roman Catholics of Ireland to the Dissenters of
 942 l. l. 943 944 945 946 l. 947 948 949
 Captain Edward Taylor  said: I can assure hon. Members who have a much better right to be heard than I have, that I shall be very brief; for though I might have desired to have addressed myself more at length to the House, had I been so fortunate as to catch the Speaker's eye on a former evening, I cannot flatter myself that I can now suggest any very new idea, the subject has become so thoroughly exhausted; nor should I venture to make the few observations I wish to offer, were it not that I am very anxious to repel the very unjust attack made in the course of this debate by the hon. Member for Durham upon the Protestant magistrates and the Protestant landlords of Ireland. It would be well for that hon. Gentleman to ascertain the truth of his premises before he repeats so unfounded an attack. I know not whether he has ever been in Ireland; but if so, he has not profited by his visit. He has dealt in generalities, so I must confine myself to the same limits; but I would entreat the House not to place credence in the statement they have heard—a statement which I am obliged to describe as equally remarkable for betraying a virulent feeling towards the class to which I am happy to say I belong, and an unfortunate ignorance of the subject he ventured to undertake. There is another point to which I wish to advert. It has been frequently repeated in the course of this debate, by those whose speeches must be listened to with consideration and respect, that the Dissenters alone object to the proposed measure, and that the Protestants of the Established Church are utterly indifferent on the subject. Is it possible that the petitions which have daily crowded the Table of this House, emanate from a single section of the community? and, to look out of doors, is the great and influential county of Kent peopled by Dissenters alone? I have returned from Ireland since the noble Lord the Member for Tyrone, and I am principally anxious to assure the House that the reverse of his
 960 soi-disant 961
 Lord J. Russell  said: Sir, if it is the general wish of the House that this debate should conclude to-night, I am, as my hon. Friend who has just sat down has said, ready to address the House out of a feeling of respect to the petitions of the people, which have been so numerously presented to it. I could have been well contented otherwise to have given a silent vote in favour of the second reading of this measure; but after the numerous petitions that have been laid upon the Table—after the many letters I have received from my constituents, and other parties, expressing their objections to this measure, I own I should not feel entirely satisfied if I did not express to the House the reasons which induce me to differ from their opinions. Sir, I concur so far with the opinions of those who are opposed to this measure, that I do think the question is one of the highest importance; and in that respect, perhaps, I do not agree so entirely with such of Her Majesty's Ministers as have spoken on the Motion for the second reading, because, as far as appeared to me, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer seemed to consider the proposal as merely an addition of 17,000 l. l. l. l. 1005 l., 1006 1007 1008 1009 1010 1011 1012 l., 1013 Redington: "Nor love thy life, nor hate; but what thou liv'st Live well, how long or short permit to Heaven." 1014 1015 1016
 Mr. Law : By what right the hon. Gentleman presumes to say, at that distance from the spot on which I stand, that I am reading my speech — and having made the assertion, to call upon you, Sir, to require me to desist, I cannot imagine. It is worthy of the cause of which he is the advocate. The only difference in the statement which I shall be enabled to lay before you, in consequence of these repeated and injurious interruptions, unusual, contrary to the practice of Parliament and of Gentlemen—
 Mr. Law : I thank you, Sir, for your most obliging and most just interpretation of my words and my intentions—an interpretation in which, I firmly believe the hon. Gentleman who afforded the interruption, at the time he rose, fully con-
 993 Bernal Osborne: 994 995 996 997 998 999
 Mr. Law  was aware that topics at first calculated to arrest the attention of Parliament, had lost, by the long continuance of this debate, much of their interest with the
 990 Cries of 991 Interruption repeated. Cries of 992
 Lord G. Somerset  intended to move that all the Reports which affected Railways that were to be brought before the Committees which would sit next week, should be ordered by the House to be produced before those Committees; and he thought it would be the better course, with the permission of the House, that
 938 "That the Reports of the Railway Department of the Board of Trade, relating to the Groups of Railway Bills upon which Committees are appointed to meet upon Monday and Tuesday next, be respectively referred to the said Committees."
 Lord G. Somerset  brought up the Second Report of the Committee on Railways, which was read as follows:—
 
 "1. That Counsel appearing before Railway Committees shall be entitled to open the case, but not to sum up the evidence. "2. That Committees on Railway Bills have leave to sit in the present Session, notwithstanding any adjournment of the House, if the Committees shall so think fit. "3. That such of the Standing Orders as relate to the composition of the Committees on Private Bills, and the orders consequent thereon, be suspended so far as regards Railway Bills pending in the course of the present Session."
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that as there, seemed to be a considerable difference of opinion on the subject, he would for the present withdraw the Resolution. As to laying down general rules, he saw much difficulty in adopting that principle.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that no such Order had as yet been made, but it was his intention to bring forward a Motion to the effect that the Reports of the Board of Trade be referred to those Committees.
 Lord John Russell  observed that the hon. Member for East Kent had not been present at the discussion in the earlier part of the evening. The Committee on the Bill was postponed to Friday next. The question of the grant being a charge on the Consolidated Fund must be moved in the previous Committee, and that Committee, as he understood from the right hon. Baronet, was to be taken on Monday. Upon that day the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Ward) would bring forward his Motion.
 Mr. Speaker : Will you divide on it?
 The Speaker  was understood to say, that the hon. and learned Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Law) was in order under the circumstances.
 The Speaker  informed the hon. Member that it was competent for the House to refer the Reports of which it was in possession to the Committees, but it could not so refer the papers and documents alluded to in the hon. Member's Amendment, they not being in the possession of the House.
 Mr. Muntz  observed that they saw many strange things, and heard many things as strange. But nothing that he had ever seen that was strange, or heard that was strange, was so strange as the change which had taken place in the speeches and dispositions of noble Lords and hon. Gentlemen since they had changed from this side of the House to that. Their memories were clearly affected. They did not seem to recollect that, at the time when he first had the honour of a seat in that House, their great battle field was Catholic concession. On what was the vote of confidence passed? Was it not the great source of argument to those who voted against the Government on that occasion, that they could have no confidence in a Government which yielded anything to the Roman Catholics? Had not such arguments frequently descended to personal dispute, and did they not once end in a duel? He would yield to no man in that House, he would yield to no man in England, he would yield to no man in Europe, in a spirit of the utmost toleration to all classes of religionists, in the wish that all should have the fullest, freest, and fairest exercise for their own religious views. But that was one of the very reasons why he was opposed to this paltry, pitiful measure of expediency now brought before the House—a measure which the Government should be ashamed to offer, and which the Irish should be ashamed to receive. If they wanted general education, let them ask for a grant as ample and extensive as they thought was required, and he would give them, in such a course, his hearty and unhesitating support. But let them not tell him that that was education which their paltry, miserable measure
 950 951 952 953 l. l. l. l. 954 955
 Mr. Aglionby  feared that there had been great negligence displayed with respect to this subject. The Motion for sending those Reports to the Committees ought to have been made before this time. It was a most unjustifiable course to oblige the Committees to adjourn from Monday to Tuesday, in order that the Committees might have the Reports before them; and if the Motion were made to-night, it must be made without notice.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  defended the course of proceeding moved, as being usual in money bills.
 Mr. Plumptre  wanted to know distinctly what would be the order of proceeding.
 Mr. Wilson Patten  doubled whether the Resolution would be productive of the advantages which the noble Lord anticipated.
 Captain Bernal Osborne  rose to order. The hon. and learned Member said, contrary to the practice of Gentlemen. He wished to know if that was in order.
 Mr. Neville , protracted as this debate had been, was anxious not to let it come to a close without craving the indulgence of the House for a few moments. He could not shut his eyes to the petitions which were nightly poured upon that Table from nearly every constituency in the kingdom; but as they were an argument one way, so was the absence of petitions from the only two solely Protestant, solely Church of England, and solely educated constituencies—viz., the two Universities, an argument in the opposite direction. Whenever the Church was in danger, Oxford and Cambridge were foremost to petition; and he could not but think, that had it been so now, they would not have remained in the back ground; and he thought he was speaking the opinions of a majority of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer's constituents, when he said that the conduct of the right hon. Gentleman had not lost him the confidence of those by whom he was so deservedly honoured and esteemed. He had visited Maynooth, and in bearing testimony to the courtesy he received at the hands of the authorities, he conld not but acknowledge the truth of every description he had heard of it, except that of the right hon. Member for Perth (Mr. F. Maule) and his friend Mr. Grant. He viewed with feelings of pity those dilapidated walls, that scanty library, and the care and pride with which the few works of value contained in it were regarded; but those feelings were changed into remorse and shame, when he heard that he was a Member of a Legislature which so miserably endowed a Government educational institution, that they were forced to send away the pupils a portion of the year solely from being unable to provide them with the necessaries of life. Everything about it was meagre. One, and
 956 "Georgio Tertio, Patri Patriæ, Fundatori suo, Collegium Manutianum."
 Mr. Bellew  was disposed to give full credit for consistency to the hon. Member for Rochdale; but he could not concede the practical advantage of his views. He confessed that the language just delivered by the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Muntz), and by his Colleague (Mr. Spooner) last night, almost justified Mr. O'Connell in the way he had spoken of his country; and he was sure that their constituency was one of the last which could be expected to sanction such expressions. One of those Gentlemen had told the Roman Catholics that their religion was an awful delusion. The other said, they were not entitled to receive this money from the public purse, and taunted them with their poverty. Now, not to put the question on higher ground, why should they be such fools as not to take that which, so far as it went, was a modification of the poverty under which the
 957 958 "What do the Roman Catholics want? They want one little tiling, and that we will give them—swords and firearms." 959
 Mr. Cobden  spoke as follows: Sir, I am sure I shall be borne out in the assertion, by all who have listened to the various speeches addressed to the House in the course of this debate, that I never remember an occasion when more irrelevant matter to the real subject of discussion was interposed, than on the present. It seems to be an impression almost generally entertained, that the question we are discussing, is the propriety of endowing the Roman Catholic priesthood of Ireland. I do not know that it would be necessary thus to notice the character and nature of our debates, did I not believe that the effect might be to produce much misapprehension in the public mind. And looking at the petitions which have been presented against the Bill, I find that at least three-fourths of them, in their prayer or argument, proceed on the supposition that we are about to pass a measure to endow the Roman Catholic priests of Ireland. Now, Sir, since the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Muntz) spoke, who stated he had fallen into a trap, and knowing that he, with his extraordinary sagacity, generally stands alone in his far-seeing knowledge, I thought it my duty to go and look at the Bill that the right hon. Baronet has brought in, in order to see what we are really going to do; and upon examining it I find the preamble states it to be a Bill to amend two Acts passed in the Irish Parliament, for the better education of persons professing the Roman Catholic religion in Ireland. I have also looked over the Bill clause by clause, to see if any thing had been smuggled into it that could by possibility lead to the endowment of the Irish Roman Catholic clergy, and I have been unable to find anything of the sort. Now, if any hon. Gentlemen are in the secret, and are consequently better informed upon the point than I am, from what I have read, and what I have heard from those in authority, of course they have the advantage over me; but from all I can see, and all I have heard, I know nothing that should lead me to suppose that the object of the Bill is other than its title and preamble indicate. Of course it is competent for hon. Gentlemen to put any interpretation they please upon
 964 l. l. l., R. Inglis: 965 l. Sibthorp: l. 966 l., l., l. l. 967 968 l.
 Mr. Sheil : It is unfortunate that the Minister cannot do the least benefit to Ireland without doing a mischief to himself. A great deal of excitement has arisen in reference to the endowment of the College of Maynooth. It is, however, gratifying to find that from any very active interposition the Church of England (which I begin to consider as a safeguard of religious liberty) has prudentially abstained. From its serene elevation it looks down in cold neutrality on the great sectarian affray. The resistance to this Bill is chiefly made by the Dissenters; by the men whom we did our utmost in assisting to obtain the repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts; and those Wesleyans who, whenever an act of severity, an abridgment of Irish liberty, has been propounded, have been the backers of domination; but when a measure of plain justice is brought forward, rise up against us in a mass of fanatical insurgency, pile petitions on the Table of this House of Commons in which "idolatry" recurs in almost every line, and in a great anti-Catholic and anti-Irish demonstration, to feelings the most unchristian, because they are the most uncharitable, contumaciously give way. I am not, however, very much surprised at the conduct of the Wesleyan Methodists; but I am, I own, more than surprised at the course which the Free Church of Scotland (in whose favour every Catholic in this House uniformly voted), has thought it creditable and consistent to pursue. There are many incidents to that Church which I much admire; for, although I think that it is to be lamented that the secession was founded upon a point of Auchterarder litigation, rather than upon a question of Genevese theology; and I regret that the rock of poverty, on which it has been said that the Scotch Church was built, has been riven asunder; yet, when I see so many teachers of the gospel making sacrifices for conscience' sake; when I see them, with those who are dearer than they are to themselves, suffering great privations; when I see husbands and fathers preferring the freedom of their altars to the happiness of their homes, I am struck with that fine spectacle, and cannot, I
 981 Regium Donum; 982 983 l.; per se, 984 985 986 987 988 989
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe : Assuming that it was the wish as well as the determination of the House, that this debate should be brought to a close this evening, he could assure the House that he would not occupy one-tenth of the time which had been occupied by the learned Recorder. Considering the tone and temper of this debate, considering that there had been no offence given to the religious opinions of any man, be they what they might, he could not help expressing his regret at the speech of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Dungarvon (Mr. Sheil). He could not help thinking that he had done a great act of injustice to the Protestant Dissenters of England. If any one had proposed that the Government and the people of Ireland should be handed over to the three denominations of Protestant Dissenters, instead of to the aristocracy of England, which it appeared his hon. and learned Friend greatly preferred, then there might have been some cause for the expressions which he had used against them. But no such proposition was ever dreamed of, and the hon. and learned Gentleman had, therefore, done the three denominations a great injustice. He (Mr. Duncombe) wished he could attract the attention of his hon. and learned Friend to the petition which he this evening presented from a deputation nominated by the three religious bodies of Dissenters residing within twelve miles of this metropolis. They represented every Dissenter belonging to their different bodies, and what was their language? It was this:—
 "That they objected to the revenues of the State being appropriated to any ecclesiastical purpose whatever. They stood upon the broad ground of no endowment; and they stated that it was only from their attachment
 1000 1001 1002 A cry of 1003 1004
 Mr. T. Duncombe : Yes.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said he should certainly bring on his Resolutions respecting the Railway Department of the Board of Trade, of which he had given notice, before this, on Monday night.
 Mr. Ferrand  said: Sir, I consider that this House is not the place in which the present question should be decided. I
 969 970 "As a friend to the Established Church, he felt bound to oppose the Ministry, not from any factious motive, but from a belief that they would consent to measures tending to destroy that Church. He had opposed their Education Bill, the direct tendency of which would be to place the whole of the power of ruling the country in the hands of the Roman Catholics, to the utter exclusion of the Protestant population." "Our efforts have availed to prevent mischief, if we have not had the power to effect good. We have resisted, and successfully resisted, the wild and visionary schemes of Radical politicians. We have saved the Church from the attacks of its open enemies, and its still more dangerous and insidious foes." 971 "They could not forget, that when the Tithe Bill was brought forward ostensibly for the purpose of establishing harmony and peace in Ireland, but which, as was truly observed by Lord Lyndhurst, contained in the Appropriation Clause the assertion of an abstract principle intended at a future period to be used by the Whigs for the destruction of the Irish Church, and which it was admitted by the Prime Minister of a Sovereign of the House of Brunswick, would deal a heavy blow and a great discouragement to Protestantism in Ireland—they could not forget that Dr. Lefroy, in his opposition to that meature, had proved himself the faithful, honest, and zealous sentinel of the Irish Church. He had likewise voted in favour of Sir Robert Peel's Motion, of want of confidence in a Ministry of whom he would say, in the language of Lord Stanley, that the cup of their iniquity was full." 972 "Those events in France made a deep impression throughout the whole of Europe, convulsed the public mind—in some countries led to revolution, and there were some which escaped from the influence of those great events. This great country was not exempt from that influence; there arose here a desire for change in the ancient institutions of the country; and the consequence was a fundamental change in the Commons' House of Parliament. I then foresaw," (the right hon. Baronet proceeds,) "that that change was accompanied with a restless desire for further change. I then foresaw, I say, the importance of laying the foundations of a great Conservative party." "I then foresaw the importance of laying the foundations of a great Conservative party, attached"— "to the ancient fundamental institutions of the country, not disposed to resist such changes as the altered circumstances of society might require; but a party determined to maintain on their ancient foundations the institutions in Church and State." "I do hope the Conservative party of this
 973 "the possession of that power and influence in the State which their wealth, their intelligence, their respectability, their character, fully entitle them to exercise. Their good will and their confidence can be the only safe foundation for political opinion." 974 975 "I rise, Sir, in the spirit of peace, to propose the adjustment of the Roman Catholic question. This question, at least the measures I have to propose for its adjustment, are measures of State policy, and of State policy exclusively; they are not calculated to shock any religious scruples. They will imply no sanction, they will disclaim all encouragement of any religious doctrines from which our own Established Church revolts. These measures will restore the equality of civil rights, but they will give no favour or encouragement to any form of religious worship, excepting that which is incorporated by fundamental laws with the constitution of the State, and which claims the respect, veneration, and affection of a Protestant people." "The Oath of Supremacy, that oath which denies to any Foreign State, prelate, or potentate, any jurisdiction temporal or spiritual within this realm, I propose to retain. A practice has occasionally of late prevailed in Ireland, which is calculated to afford a great, and I may add just, offence to Protestants. I allude to the practice of claiming and assuming on the part of the Roman Catholic prelates the names and titles of dignities belonging to the Church of England. I propose that the episcopal titles and names made use of in the Church of England shall not be assumed by bishops of the Roman Catholic Church. This will be prevented in future." 976 "Sir J. Graham moved the second reading of the Charitable Donations (Ireland) Bill. Proposed, that five Roman Catholic Members should be on the Board. Mr. M. O'Ferrall
 977 l. "And be it enacted, that it shall not be lawful for any such 'archbishop,' 'bishop' or person in holy orders of the Church of Rome to alien, &c.: provided always that it shall and may be lawful for the said 'archbishop,' 'bishop,' or other person in holy orders of the Church of Rome to execute such leases as are hereinafter mentioned." Laughter. 978 "If, in the present instance, there were any contest for the representation of this country, of which we have heard so much, but seen so little—if any Gentleman had come forward to support the views of Her Majesty's Government, to defend their present policy, to vindicate their consistency, to support their firm adhesion to principle." Derisive Cheers. "Their steady resistance to dangerous encroachment, I should have been fully prepared to enter into that discussion, with a full conviction that I should have shown you all, and demonstrated, if not to the satisfaction, at least to the conviction of the parties coming forward with this case into court, that Her Majesty's Government, of late years, far from maintaining a steady adhesion to principle, have conceded one day that which they described as mischievous the day before, and gradually alienated those of their moderate Conservative and Liberal supporters, who formed the most respectable portion of their party, and one by one dropped off from their side, until they found themselves at last compelled, from sheer weakness and inability to carry out their own views, to throw themselves into the arms and adopt the principles of men with whom they most essentially differed, and whose course they themselves believed to be dangerous." 979 "There is another point which I have before mentioned, but which I now refer to, because I consider it a duty we owe to the Constitution, and more especially to the Crown. I allude to the expression of Sir J. C. Hobhouse, 'that the Government had the favour of the Crown, and that this favour was the best support a Ministry could have.' I should be sorry to take advantage of a casual expression, or an individual remark, if it were loosely worded, but this was an expression used in debate, which had been commented upon by Lord Stanley, and which had never been denied, apologized for, or explained. I will not say, as Cromwell said to Harry Vane, 'The Lord defend me from Sir Harry Vane,' for Sir J. C. Hobhouse can do me no harm—his opinions are not infectious; but I may and do say, 'The Lord defend the Queen from advisers such as those who can pronounce such observations in Parliament, and who may be suspected of whispering into the ears of the Sovereign theories far more dangerous to the monarchy." 980
 Mr. S. Crawford , in resuming the adjourned debate, said he felt deep regret at being compelled to separate himself on the present occasion from many hon. Gentlemen for whom he entertained the highest respect, and had been obliged to differ more especially in opinion from many Members for Ireland. He also felt regret at being compelled to oppose the measure of Her Majesty's Government, which he was sure they brought forward with the kindest dispositions towards Ireland. But as one of those who were in favour of the voluntary principle, he fell compelled to vote against it. There were two charges brought against those persons who, like himself, supported the voluntary principle. They were charged, first, with concurring in the former grant to Maynooth; and in the next place, they were charged with voting for a chimerical project, which they had no chance of carrying out. With regard to the first, he believed it would be admitted without dispute that a new question now arose, for a permanent endowment by Bill was a very different thing from an annual grant by vote. It might be in some degree inconsistent with the voluntary principle that he had not opposed the grant to Maynooth; but he confessed, out of respect to his Roman Catholic brethren, he felt reluctant to vote against the grant to Maynooth, and to upset that which had been established by the Irish Parliament. Nor did he think that the second charge was mere valid. He was of opinion that if this grant were passed to the College of Maynooth, the principle would not stop there. He trusted that the course he was now taking would not be imputed to any unfriendly feeling on his part towards his Roman Catholic countrymen. It had been said that the opposition in England to the measure had arisen from what was commonly called the "No Popery" cry; but those who made the charge should consider what cause the people had for their opposition. They had ample cause in the inconsistency of the great leader of the Irish people with respect to the voluntary principle. With respect to that principle, his course had been one completely marked by inconsistencies. Some thought that this grant would not lead to further concessions, because that the Roman Catholic clergy would not accept
 940 941
 Sir F. Trench  said, that he had presented ten petitions against the measure, and received an intimation from many of his constituents that, unless he opposed the measure, they could not continue to give him their support; but, notwithstanding that representation, he should give the measure his anxious and cordial support. He entertained a confident opinion that reflection upon this subject would produce an alteration in the views of those Gentle-
 962 963
 Sir G. Grey  said, that if the Order were not made before Monday, the Committees would have to adjourn to a future day, and thus much time must be lost. It was, therefore, desirable that the Order should be made before the adjournment of the House.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, that he had listened with the greatest attention to the speech of the noble Lord the Member for London; and of all the important considerations which the noble Lord, his noble Friend, had urged on the House, none appeared to him more important than that with which he had just concluded, because his noble Friend had indicated pretty clearly the course which, whether in Opposition or in Administration, he should feel it consistent with his duty to take. In no ambiguous terms had his noble Friend adverted to the condition of the Established Church in Ireland as influencing the prosperity of that country, or rather as causing the absence of prosperity; and his noble Friend had told them, that without reference to the articles of the Union, to the obligations which bind us to continue, and which bind our Queen to continue, the perpetual support of that Church, he would take into consideration some mode—he did not say of preserving existing interests, which was the popular phrase when spoliation was intended—but some mode by which that Church might be made more acceptable to the Roman Catholic people of Ireland. The noble Lord adverted to the language which was contained in the petitions that were addressed to this House against the Bill; and he spoke of the language of those petitions in a tone of censure, and in a manner altogether which he (Sir Robert Inglis) had not expected to hear from a great friend of civil and religious liberty. He defied his noble Friend to produce from all those petitions a single phrase which was not to be found in the liturgy, the articles, or the homilies of the Church; and which had not been adopted and maintained on oath by at least two hundred of the living Members
 1017 1018 dare l. l., 1019 1020 l. Gladstone: 1021 "Circumstanced, however, as this country
 1022 Journal des Debats, "The measure which the Prime Minister of England has introduced is nothing more nor less than a revolution of the policy pursued in England since the Reformation. It is the greatest concession made by Protestantism, without excepting the Emancipation Act of 1829." "It is the first step in a new course—a regular and general maintenance of the Roman Catholic clergy by the State. The Protestants are not deceived by this grant. They even consider, and with certain reason, that it would have been more rational in the Government to pay stipends to the existing priests than to take the pains to create and educate more, and thus establish a Roman Propaganda." 1023 1024
 Sir R. Inglis  objected to fixing the day so early.
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, I am not about to review the course of this debate. It has been protracted to a period unusually long, but I think it has not been protracted unnaturally or unreasonably, considering the importance of the subject, and the excitement of the public feeling with respect to it. Sir, the course of that debate has exhibited many honourable examples of men, determined at any hazard to express their
 1025 1026 1027 1028 1029 1030 "An accurate description of Maynooth would be of necessity so disagreeable, that it is best to pass it over in a few words. There is such a look of lazy squalor about it, that no Englishman who has not seen it can suspect. Lecture-rooms and dining-hall, kitchen and students' rooms, are all the same. Why should the place be so shamefully ruinous?" l. 1031 l. "Do you receive anything from the annual vote?"—"I do." "What is your stipend?"—"It is 80 l. 1032 1033 1034 "The undersigned beg leave most respectfully to express our deep sense of gratitude for the very liberal provision which you, as the head of the Government, have proposed for the education of the Roman Catholic clergy, and still more for the kind and gracious manner in which you have recommended the measure to the friendly consideration of the House." 1035 1036 1037 1038 1039 l. l. l. l. 1040 1041 1042
 Sir R. Peel  afterwards moved,—
 1046 "That this House will, upon Monday next, resolve itself into a Committee, to consider of making provision out of the Consolidated Fund for the maintenance of the College of Maynooth."
 Sir R. Peel  explained that the Committee on the Consolidated Fund Act would be taken on Monday, and that the Committee of the House upon the Bill itself would follow on Friday.
 Mr. Hutt : I rise to order. I wish to know if it be not contrary to the Standing Orders of the House for any Member of it to read his speech.
 Viscount Howick  had no objection to the Motion of the noble Lord; but if it had come before the House at an earlier period, he should have taken the opportunity of calling the attention of the House to the nature of the Reports of the Board of Trade, and of protesting against the House lending its authority to them. He thought the House had great reason to complain of the want of care on the part of the organ of the Board of Trade. The Gentleman who represented the Board of Trade in that House ought to have given a regular notice of this Motion at a time sufficiently early to allow hon. Members to make the necessary inquiries on the subject. This was another example of the system of carelessness which had, from first to last, characterized the business of that Department upon an important question.
 Viscount Howick  should not oppose the proposition; but he regretted that the Government had not, in the first instance, laid down some general rule for the guidance of all Committees, instead of leaving each Committee to act as it might on its own rules.
 Viscount Howick  hoped that no Motion on so important a subject would be made at a late hour of the night, when few Members were present.
 Viscount Howick  wished to ask a question of the noble Lord, with respect to the subject of railways. Some of the Committees on Railways were to commence their labours on Monday, and he was desirous to ascertain if any Order was to be made by the House to refer to those Committees the Reports of the Board of Trade on the Railways the Bills for which were to come before them.
 Mr. H. Berkeley  said, that having many other things to occupy his mind, he had altogether forgotten the hour of attendance. He suggested that when Members were named on a Private Bill, they should have a note sent to them reminding them of the hour.
 Mr. Gladstone  hoped that the House in general, and the hon. Member for Finsbury in particular, would acquiesce in the construction which the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) had put upon the Motion now under discussion. It was, he thought, perfectly plain, that, whatever merits might attach to that Motion, yet those merits were not such as, under the circumstances, would render it advisable to agree to the Motion. For they now stood in this dilemma: every one of the Reports which had hitherto been made by the Railway Department of the Board of Trade was upon the Table of the House. Some of them had been referred to Committees, which had already been constituted, and others were about to be referred. The objections which were made to the Railway Department and their proceedings might or might not be well founded; but the evils connected with them had taken place, and the House had the Reports before them which were the result of the system. Now he submitted that unless all these Reports were positively mischievous in themselves—not only of little value, but positively worthless and worse than useless—they could not take a more illadvised course than that of depriving themselves of whatever information and assistance might be afforded, even in the worst view that had been taken in these Reports. Generally speaking, he considered the Reports were manifestly documents of great value; for even if they were not right in their conclusions—and he had a strong opinion upon the generality of them with regard to their conclusions—no one could help perceiving that generally they opened up the question
 1064 pro con, 1065 exparte 1066
 Mr. Bernal  was convinced that a vast deal of benefit would accrue to the public from the consideration of this subject, and pursuing it to some definite and prospective end. A great deal had been said on the constitution of the Railway Department of the Board of Trade. Now, all he could say was this, that they were incepting a course of experiments, and could not say yet how they would turn out. But he remembered what was said by the right hon. Baronet on the other side when the subject was under discussion in that House; and the right hon. Baronet was rather severe upon him (Mr. Bernal) for the observations he then made: he would not enter into that further than to say that he then entirely dissented from the views of the right hon. Baronet, and all he would answer was, that he hoped the experiment would be successful. He hoped, too, that the Committees who were appointed to sit on railway projects, might turn out advantageous and beneficial in a practical point of view, and might have the effect of counteracting the existing evils, and putting a check upon the inordinate speculations which were going on, and which would some day end in the ruin of thousands. He repudiated the notion that there was any ground for impugning the integrity of those Gentlemen who constituted the Railway Department of the Board of Trade. With one of the Members of that Department he was acquainted, and he honoured that gentleman not only for his integrity but for his ability. The other Members of that Department he knew by reputation; and he was convinced that not one of them would be guilty of such dishonourable conduct as disclosing the facts of which they were officially cognizant, and so affecting the interests of persons who had embarked their property in railway projects. When a numerous deputation attended the Board of Trade, and made representations to that Department which were supported by arguments, and upon which opinions were expressed, it was not surprising that some intimation of what occurred at such interviews should be given to the public. He believed that the reports which were so frequently current on these subjects, and which produced most mischievous results, might be traced to this source. He thought the hon. Member for Finsbury had misunderstood the Standing Order of the House which he proposed to rescind;
 1071 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that Her Majesty will be graciously pleased to direct that all Documents and Statements received by the Railway Department of the Board of Trade, in relation to any Railway Bill or Project upon which that Railway Department has reported, be laid before this House; and that the promoters and opponents of every such Bill, and their counsel and agents, shall agree to inspect, and at their own expense obtain copies or extracts of such Statements or Documents."
 Mr. B. Denison  did not wish to take any part in the discussion, connected as he was with the London and York Railway, which had been reported against by the Board of Trade, and he would rather have refrained from saying anything until after the Bill had been considered in Committee, where its merits could be fully discussed; but after the pointed allusion which had been made to him by the hon. Member for Finsbury, he could not help making two or three remarks. He certainly did say that he was in a condition to prove that four days before the decision of the Board of Trade was published, a report was circulated in the City, and letters went into the country, to the effect that the London and York line would be reported against, and that the Cambridge and Lincoln line would be favourably reported upon, and that a portion of the Direct Northern (and this was the most singular part of the matter) would also be favourably considered. This intelligence was circulated on the Saturday, and the decision was not given in the  Gazette 1081 Gazette
 Mr. Banks  said, that the impressions created in his mind by an attentive consideration of the Reports of the Railway Board had led him to form the same conclusions to which the hon. Baronet who spoke last had come—namely, that the Railway Board had almost invariably given a preference to the existing rich and powerful companies, and had thus thrown a damp over the projects of new companies; in many respects he considered this to be highly injurious, by arresting free competition; and likewise, extremely prejudicial to the interests of individuals. There was also another injurious effect resulting from giving so decided a preference to the old companies, namely, that the complaints and remonstrances of individuals against the new lines projected had far less hope of obtaining that fair attention to which they were entitled, when they came in competition with the old and powerful companies, than they would have had were they directed against new companies. He thought the Board of Trade had greatly exceeded the powers intrusted to it by the Mouse, and this in more respects than one. He held in his hand a Report issued with respect to the Great Western line, by which the Members of the Railway Board not only assumed the power of sanctioning a junction formed by this company with another railway company; but they also constituted themselves umpires in case any dispute should arise between the two companies thus coalescing. Now, no such power as was arrogated had been granted to that Board by the House, and moreover it appeared that the Railway Committee of the Board of Trade considered itself to be a
 1084 1085 l. 1086
 Mr. Gladstone  said, the analogy that had been attempted to be drawn between this case and the wholesale dealers in sugar would not hold, for he recollected that in that case the remission of the duties was forced upon the Government, not simply on the ground that it was impossible to commit fraud, though that was a necessary part of the case, but on the ground that the alteration of the Sugar Duties took place three months earlier than parties could have anticipated. It appeared to him that the House was treading on slippery ground in discussing a question of this kind. In 1842, a large number of sweeping reductions were made without affording any relief to a single party. It appeared to him that the Motion of the hon. Member, under the colour of equity and kindness, would yet, if adopted, give rise to infinite embarrassment.
 Lord G. Somerset  was glad to be able to concur in the latter observation of the noble Lord. He owned he was very much astonished at the misconception which prevailed as to the Reports of the Board of Trade; for although they were drawn up with great ability, and though in most instances he was inclined to agree with them, they were never looked on either by the Committee that recommended the appointment of this Department, or by the Board itself, as at all binding. He had always thought that many of the misapprehensions that prevailed in the public mind would have been removed, if the language of the Committee which appointed the Railroad Department of the Board of Trade had been referred to. That Committee merely pointed out the necessity of taking evidence and making a Report, without at all saying it should be decisive. He was perfectly incompetent at that time to determine whether the decisions of the Board of Trade were correct or not. The matters decided on would be subject of consideration by separate Committees, and it was not until those Committees had pronounced their opinions that he should be prepared to say how far the experiment had been successful. Every one of these Reports of the Board of Trade would be severely scrutinised by a competent tribunal. As to the objection that these Reports were not recognised, there was a Standing Order of July last, in which it was laid down "that such Reports should be referred to the Committee on the Bill." It was impossible to say that the Resolution constituting the Railway Department of the Board of Trade was adopted without full and fair consideration. To the Motion before the House he entertained decided objections. Though he did not agree with some of the Reports, he thought on the whole that by the end of the Session, after the investigation of the Committee, they would be found generally satisfactory.
 Lord G. Somerset  had no objection to adopt that suggestion, but in the present case the hour of attendance was mentioned in the Votes of Saturday.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that as this was the first instance of non-attendance, and as they were then commencing a new system, he did not wish to take any notice of the circumstance; but in future he should take steps to enforce attendance, in which he hoped the House would support him, by moving that Members who should be absent without sufficient cause should be taken into the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms.
 Mr. Hawes  said, nothing was mere remarkable in the administration of the several Departments of our Government, than the purity of those connected with them. This was the only Department that had ever been suspected; and though he believed it had been very improperly
 1079 "I am directed by the Lords of the Privy Council of Trade to call your attention to the course of proceeding as to the Railway Bills entrusted to your charge, and which will become necessary in order to give effect to the proposed supervision of the Board of Trade over such lines during their progress through Parliament." Gazette. 1080
 Mr. Hawes  said, the application was made, not by the coopers, but by merchants who had bonded staves for the use of the coopers. He thought that wherever it was possible to estimate the loss, and the goods were in the state in which they were unsorted, Government ought to allow the drawback.
 Mr. Hindley  thanked the right hon. Baronet for giving way on this occasion, and considering the measure to be of a highly injurious character, he should oppose it to the utmost; at the same time he was sure the right hon. Baronet would not injure his own cause by not proceeding with that indecent haste which he had attempted on a former occasion. Those who opposed this measure, had been charged with bigotry; but he had just as much right to make a charge of robbery against those who supported it. If, as a Dissenter, he was obliged to support his own church, to build his own chapels, and to endow his own colleges, he asked what right the Government had to put their hands into his pockets and make him pay for a religion which he did not approve of? He did not wish to speak disrespectfully of his Roman Catholic fellow-subjects. Their cause, and the cause of the Irish people, he had at all times promoted by his votes in that House. As far as regarded civil privileges, he should continue to do so; but he thought it extremely uncivil that they should desire to put their hands into his pockets for the support of their religion.
 Colonel Sibthorp  thought every day's experience showed the correctness of the opinions he had so often stated to the House. With regard to the hon. Gentlemen who sat on the Treasury Bench, and those who lately sat on the Treasury Bench, he hardly understood their position. He did not know whether the right hon. Member for Newark spoke as the President of the Board of Trade, or only as the late President of the Board of Trade; for, though speaking on behalf of that Department of the Government, he still found him sitting on the benches below those occupied by the Treasury Members. There was one hon. Gentleman, however, (Mr. Pringle) whom he supposed he might now look upon as a late Member of the Government; and much as he had honoured the hon. Gentleman before the event which had made him a late Member, he honoured him much
 1069
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved that the Customs' Import Duties Bill be lead a third time.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the House would recollect, when the propriety of allowing a drawback on the sugar was under consideration, he stated that it would give rise to applications from every person having goods in bond where the duties had been reduced. Notwithstanding, the House thought that sugar was an article on which they ought to make an exception; they did it principally on this ground, that the time fixed for the expiration of the Sugar Duties had been anticipated by about three months. He was not disposed to acquiesce in the proposition of his hon. Friend with respect to staves, because there was no peculiarity in the article which did not apply to others where the duties had been reduced. There was this peculiarity also against a return of the duty—that the coopers themselves urged the abolition of the duty; now, a certain number of them came forward to get a return of the duty upon their stocks in the Queen's warehouses; thus obtaining a preference over those who had taken their goods out of bond. On these grounds he could not accede to the proposition.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, what the hon. Member had stated was quite true of the Excise, but not of the Customs; and, for this simple reason, that when the duties were increased, the increase was not laid upon the goods in bend. The principle had only been violated in the case of sugar, and that for the special reason be had mentioned.
 Mr. Kemble  rose to call the attention of the House to the case of the holders of staves on which the duty had been paid in the bonding warehouses on the 14th of February, and not since removed. He insisted upon the grievance sustained by those parties who still held staves on which they had paid the duty, in being brought into competition with the holders of staves which had been imported since the duty had been removed. He considered that
 1093
 Mr. Labouchere  said he apprehended that the object of his hon. Friend in making this Motion was to express to that House an opinion that the Reports of the Board of Trade were not entitled to credit. He confessed that he was not inclined to take that view, believing it to be altogether premature. They had imposed on the Board of Trade a most arduous duty, in the performance of which they had prepared various Reports. He was not prepared to say either that those Reports were or were not entitled to credit; but by the end of the Session, when the Reports of the Committees had been made, there would be abundant material for judging whether they were entitled to confidence, or whether they deserved the
 1062 1063
 Mr. Barneby  appeared at the Bar, and reported from the Barnesley Junction Railway Committee, that from the time fixed for the meeting of the Committee, Mr. Joseph Somes was not in attendance for one hour; that in half an hour after that time he attended, and stated that his absence arose wholly from his having made a mistake as to the hour; and that the Committee had not suffered any inconvenience from his temporary absence.
 Mr. Colquhoun  said, that as an allusion had been made to him by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Newark, he would beg permission to make a very few observations on the subject under discussion. It certainly was very true that last Session he had expressed an opinion favourable to the Railway Committee of the Board of Trade; but he must say that, after hearing the discussion of that evening, and after listening to the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, he no longer entertained that opinion. For even the noble Lord the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster was so doubtful on the point, as to have asked the House to suspend its opinion until the Reports of the Railway Board came under the consideration of the Committees of the House. For his own part, he was by no means sure if it was possible for any preliminary inquiry to be such as would prove satisfactory to all parties; for what was it that the Board of Trade was called upon to do? There were about 200 Bills placed before it; and without examining any one of the parties, without any evidence, with difficulties to wade through which were very great, and
 1087 Gazette,
 Mr. Hume  said, that when the Government undertook a great measure like the present, they ought to act upon general principles, not to favour one party because they had powerful advocates in this House, and oppose those who were weakly supported.
 1094 Chancellor of the Exchequer:
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, he was happy to give his assent to the Amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for Weymouth, the more so as it was one of the Resolutions which it had been his intention to move on Tuesday; and, consequently, its adoption that evening would
 1088 1089
 Mr. T. Duncombe  hoped the Parliamentary agents would not comply with the request of the Board then. Such an order could only come with propriety from that House. If he moved an Amendment to any one of those Bills, was the Board of Trade to send down to the agents for it to see whether it squared with their views? He considered it to be a gross infringement of their rights as Members of that House.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  rose to move, according to Notice, that Section 11 of Standing Order No. 87 which requires Committees on Railway Bills to make a Special Report to the House of the reasons which may induce them to adopt or reject the recommendations of the Board of Trade, be discharged. The Standing Order in question having been read, the hon. Member proceeded to say, that in asking the House to agree to the discharge of this
 1056 l. 1057 1058
 Mr. Gisborne  did not wish to attack the composition of the Board; but he thought that it was impossible for the Board to do its duty to the public, considering the disadvantages of the situation in which it was placed. The Railway Department of the Board of Trade engrossed the whole railway system of the country. He believed that their Reports would have the greatest influence on the Committees; and when these Committees found themselves in any difficulty, they would seek to escape from it by referring to and acting upon the suggestions of the Reports. How were these Reports made? The process had been described in a very able pamphlet, which said, "That the ingenuity of man could scarcely have devised a more certain means of error." He now asked, if, in addition to all the other labours they were about to put on the Committees, they would impose upon them
 1067 1068
 Mr. Wakley  said, that until the alterations were made, they did not know what they had to discuss. There was much anxiety felt on this subject, in consequence of the profession considering that there was a great disagreement between the speech made by the right hon. Gentleman and the Bill he introduced. I They did not consider that the right hon. Gentleman had carried out his own views in his own Bill; and one of his correspondents had suggested that perhaps the right hon. Gentleman, in taking out a Bill from one of his official pigeonholes, had hit upon a wrong Bill. He understood the right hon. Gentleman to say that before Whitsuntide he would go into Committee upon the Bills  pro formâ,
 Mr. Wyse  was understood to say, that his absence was accidental, and to express a hope that it might be passed over.
 Sir G. Clerk  begged to make a few remarks in reference to the conduct of the Railway Department of the Board of Trade. After the insinuations which had been uttered in that House, and out of doors, he was anxious to know what charges were to be brought against the conduct and proceedings of that Department. The hon. Gentleman said, that the Reports which had emanated from that Department, and their discussions in reference to the various schemes brought before them, had given general dissatisfaction. He believed the very reverse of this was the case. In general, the public were highly satisfied with their Reports, and the only dissatisfaction which was expressed in reference to them had been expressed by parties immediately and directly interested in those schemes against which the Railway Department of the Board of Trade had thought it their duty to report. The hon. Gentleman, in common with others, had borne ample testimony to the assiduity and diligence with which the President of the Board of Trade had directed the proceedings of the Railway Committee of the Board. He would not claim to himself any share of the merit which those had a right to claim who were chiefly concerned in making the Reports. He was, however, very ready to take his share of the responsibility which devolved upon that Department. The importance of railway legislation had for many years past attracted the attention of that House, and several Committees had observed upon the imperfection of the system of legislation which formerly obtained upon that subject. These Committees had uniformly concurred in viewing Railway Bills not so much as private and Local Bills, as measures affecting the general interests. The local interests involved in them would receive attention from proceeding in the ordinary manner upon them; but it was found that there were public interests which could not be attended to unless the care of them should be committed to some Public Department, regularly constituted for that purpose. It was the object of the Committee of last Session, that all railway schemes, before being brought under the notice of Parliament, should be submitted for previous investigation to a Department of the Board of Trade; and they distinctly averred that their recommendation
 1059 Gazette, Gazette. Gazette. 1060 Gazette, 1061
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that the word "supervision" was that which had been used by the Committee of that House in determining what powers should be intrusted to the Board of Trade. One of their duties was to consider the different schemes previous to their introduction into the House; and another was, to watch the Bills themselves, that they might point out to the House any clauses that might be desirable to insert, and prevent the insertion of improper clauses. It was necessary to that end that they should have the power complained of by the hon. Member.
 Sir G. Strickland  said, that the whole Rules and Orders and mode of legislation on this subject, were in a deplorable state of confusion. To both landed proprietors and to speculators in railroads, the greatest injustice was done by the legislation of that House. The Reports of the Board of Trade, from their mistaken mode of proceeding, had greatly aggravated this injustice; and he trusted that the House would not separate this year without considering what were the rules and regulations and orders, in order materially to revise them. It was evident that the rage for making railroads was increasing; and next year they would be overwhelmed with railroad schemes. He believed that the public was dissatisfied with the Reports of the Board of Trade; and the impression was that it had lost sight of the public
 1082 1083
 Sir J. Graham  said he intended to make certain alterations in the Physic and Surgery Bill, which then stood for its Second Reading, but he was not prepared to state what they were, arrangements being still pending with regard to them. Considering the state of the Session, he wished to make some progress with the Bill, and, though he did not think it right to press the second reading of either the Physic and Surgery Bill or of the Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons Bill that night, he proposed to fix the second reading positively for Friday next; and he trusted that then the House would allow him to take the second reading of the two Bills. On a subsequent night he should propose to go into Committee  pro formâ, 1096
 Sir R. Inglis  said: I trust, Sir, I shall be excused for calling, not your attention, but that of Her Majesty's Ministers, to the clock. I ask whether it befitting that the most important stage in this Bill should be commenced at the present hour? The question at issue is whether the Consolidated Fund of England shall be charged in perpetuity with the amount which Her Majesty's Ministers propose for the maintenance of the Roman Catholic College of Maynooth. I ask this House, and especially I ask Her Majesty's Ministers, whether it be fit to commence such a measure at such an hour as the present? I believe that many Gentlemen—one I know on the opposite side of the House has done so—have expressed an opinion that it is impossible to commence such a discussion at such a time. I, therefore, must resist the pressing forward of this measure at this hour, and I hope it will not be necessary
 1090
 Sir R. Peel  said: I sincerely regret that my hon. Friend makes any objection to the progress of this Bill. I did understand from an hon. Gentleman who has given notice of a Motion on this subject, that he should hardly think it his duty to bring forward his Motion at a later hour than ten o'clock, and I may as well tell my hon. Friend that I do not mean to give him the advantage of the opportunity of saying that I have hurried on this business unnecessarily; but I do at the same time think, considering that the measure is now introduced, and considering the manner in which it has been received, that it is of vital importance that no delay should take place. I may say also that no effort on my part shall be wanting to conduct it to a successful issue. With the exception of business of pressing importance to the Public Service, I will not bring forward any Government measure until it shall have been disposed of. I shall, of course, fulfil the pledge which I gave—not for seeing the extent of the opposition which this measure has met with—to the Members representing Scotland, and on Friday next state to the House the general outline of the measure which it is the intention of the Government to propose with respect to banking in that country, in order that those hon. Members may have an opportunity of considering it. I am sorry I was obliged to give that pledge, but I should be also sorry to break it, and I therefore feel myself compelled to adopt the course I have stated. Trusting that those hon. Members will be satisfied with the announcement of the general principles of the measure, and content to reserve the discussion of it for a future occasion, I therefore propose that we shall enter into a Committee upon this vote on the earliest day I can propose, namely, Wednesday next. At the same time I have no power to compel Gentlemen who have notices for that day in reference to Bills undertaken
 1091
 Sir R. Peel  hoped that if the consideration of the measure was to be postponed, hon. Members would not now attempt to raise a discussion on it.
 Sir R. Peel  thought there could be no objection to his stating the nature of the measure, which included Ireland as well as Scotland, on Friday next; particularly as he did not feel it consistent with his duty to comply with the request of the noble Lord.
 Sir Robert Peel  was altogether opposed to the principle of allowing drawbacks in any case. The general rule on the remission of Customs' duties ought to be to make them without compensation to any parties. The hon. Member for Montrose had warned them of the evil of giving way to powerful interests, and not giving weak ones the same advantage. Now it happened that they were resisting the claims of the wholesale importers of staves, because
 1095
 Viscount Howick  regretted that they could not at all events commence the discussion that evening. However, as the right hon. Baronet thought it better to yield, he had nothing more to say upon the point. But he could not help suggesting to the right hon. Gentlemen that the Scotch Representatives would, he thought, be very willing to relieve him from the pledge which he had given to begin the business of Friday by a general statement of his plan respecting Scotch banks, if he would consent to postpone his
 1092
 Viscount Howick  seconded the Amendment. He thought that the House and the country were much indebted to the hon. Member for Finsbury for having brought this subject forward in the manner he had. He agreed, however, in the reasons assigned for not pressing the Motion to a division. He thought that the hon. Member had not correctly read the Standing Order, and that there did not exist sufficient ground for rescinding it as proposed. But the offer made by the right hon. Baronet opposite, the Vice President of the Board of Trade, to place the originals of the documents in question before the House, would be a most valuable concession, and one quite sufficient for his hon. Friend to obtain. It was most important, however, to have had an opportunity of discussing the weight of the authority which ought to be attached to these Reports of the Board of Trade. The right hon. Gentleman the late President of the Board of Trade (Mr. Gladstone) had stated, that it was premature at the present time to discuss the manner in which their duties had been performed by the Railway Department of the Board of Trade, and to go into the merits of particular Reports. On this point he did not altogether agree with the right hon. Gentleman. These Reports were calculated to exercise a certain degree of weight on the deliberations of Committees, as coming from a Department of the Government, and, unless some discussion in this House should prevent it, they would have the effect of making out a sort of  primâ facie 1072 1073 1074 in toto ex-parte 1075 Gazette ex-parte ex-parte 1076 ex-parte ex-parte 1077 1078
 Viscount Palmerston  appeared at the Bar, and reported from the Committee on the Lynn and Ely Railway Bill, that Mr. Wyse and Mr. Berkeley were not present that morning for one
 1055
 Captain Berkeley  was well aware that on such a great question as the proposed grant to Maynooth, by which the public mind was so excited, as appeared by the numerous petitions to the House on the subject, that it was generally considered neither manly nor straightforward conduct to refrain from giving a vote one way or the other; and, generally speaking, he was ready to admit the truth of this remark. Nevertheless he had refrained from voting on the grant as proposed by the right hon. Baronet opposite, because although as anxious, under the circumstances of the case and our relations with Ireland, that an increased grant should be made, he objected upon principle, and upon principle that had hitherto guided his conduct. From a large body of his constituency he received a petition, requesting to know if he would support the prayer of it. His answer was, although he approved of many of the sentiments contained in the petition, he could not support it as a whole—in objecting to any increase of the grant whatever. The very same reason prevented his giving his vote to the proposition of the right hon. Baronet; he could not support it as a whole, and he had no means of dividing the unobjectionable from the objectionable. However he might desire this boon for Ireland, he would not seek to obtain that which was serviceable, by means of which he entirely disapproved, more especially as he conceived that other means were to be found more politic, more just, and calculated to be received by the Irish people as a still greater boon. He was unwilling to impose a fresh burden on the people; to increase their burdens was contrary to justice and reason; and impolitic, as engendering the worst feelings amongst those professing different religious opinions. Let them look to the manner in which the Irish had been treated with reference to the Established Church in that country. So far back as the times of Bishop Bedell, that zealous and pious Protestant says, that—
 1156 "The English had all along neglected the Irish as a nation, not only conquered, but undisciplinable, and that the clergy had scarce considered them as a part of their charge, but had left them wholly in the hands of their own priests without taking any care of them, but the making them pay their tithes." "Your Committee beg leave to report, that they are unanimously of opinion that the most afflicting beyond comparison of all the grievances which the people of Ireland sustain, is to be found in the misappropriation of the ecclesiastical revenues of Ireland." "England does not support the Church of the minority, but that Ireland, on the contrary, suffers this giant, this monster evil." "Good Protestants and bad Christians have talked nonsense, and more than nonsense, so long, about Popery, and the Beast, and Antichrist, that the simple, just, and charitable measure of establishing the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland seems removed by common consent." "We stand before you in number amounting to above 100,000; the greatest part of us own ourselves as having belonged to that party in this country who advocated the Repeal of the Union. We thought the only remedy for such evils was a recurrence to a domestic legislature. But the experience we have had of your Excellency's wise, just, and paternal Government, has taught us otherwise; and we tender to your Excellency our solemn abjurations of the question of the Repeal of the
 1157
 Lord Ashley  said: In reference to the communication made by my right hon. Friend at the head of Her Majesty's Government to this House last year, and also to his opening statement in introducing the proposal of this grant to Maynooth, I wish to ask him whether it be his intention to propose any further plan of academical education in Ireland; and if so, whether he will be good enough, either before we go into Committee, or immediately after, to state simply the outline of such scheme?
 Lord John Russell : I do not wish to interpose to prevent the adjournment of the debate, or to detain the House by any long argument on this question; but I am anxious, before the House separates, to state, as briefly as I can, the course which I intend to take with respect to the Motion of my hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield. It is my intention to support that Motion. I shall give my vote in favour of the Motion of my hon. Friend; but when the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for the University of Cambridge comes before the Committee, I shall be prepared to give it my decided negative. I will go further and say, that if the House is not prepared to concur with the proposition of my hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield, I do not know that there is any other Amendment which can be subsequently moved in the progress of the measure to which I shall give my support; and I shall then consider it to be my duty to advance this Bill to she best of my power—believing, as I do, that its adoption will be attended with the advantages attributed to it by the Government. The reason why I give
 1228 1229 l. l. l. l. 1230
 Mr. Roebuck : When a person of the known ability of the right hon. Gentleman undertook to answer a speech of the character and class such as that of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Edinburgh, it was expected by the House and the world at large that something like an attempt should have been made to answer the arguments adduced by the right hon. Gentleman. But it did not strike him (Mr. Roebuck), and he did not think it
 1209 1210 1211 Cheers. 1212 1213 1214
 Mr. Milner Gibson  was glad to observe that the hon. Baronet who had just sat down appeared to see further into the future than the right hon. Secretary for Ireland. He rejoiced to have heard that hon. Gentleman acknowledge that the day was not far distant when it would be necessary for Parliament to take into their consideration the question of the constitution of the Irish Church — meaning thereby not its religion, but its property. He owned that he had been surprised at the doctrines laid down by the right hon. Secretary for Ireland. He talked of the property of the Irish Church as having something like a divine origin or safeguard. The right hon. Gentleman stated that, although there were not even a single individual Protestant in Ireland, still it would be wrong to meddle with the revenues of the Irish Church. But if so, he (Mr. M. Gibson) wished to know how they were to explain having allowed 25 per cent. of these revenues to slip into the rental of Irish landlords, and be thus diverted from their purpose of aiding in the spiritual instruction of the Irish people? And how, again, were they to explain having permitted the church cess and other taxes to be taken from the land, and paid from those funds of this Protestant Established Church which they had left for Ecclesiastical Commissioners to administer. As to the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield, it would be right that he should first admit the propriety of endowing Maynooth at all, before he could consent to do it from the funds to which his hon. Friend had pointed. It was only upon the grounds that there were State funds, and that the fee simple of the Irish Church was in the State, that he would be justified in appropriating its property to the endowment of Maynooth. On the second reading of the Bill he had had no opportunity of stating his views upon the Government scheme. He would, however, take this opportunity of saying, that he quite agreed with the view set forth by his hon. Friend the Member for Stockport (Mr. Cobden) — when he said that this was no theological or religious question. He viewed it as an educational question; and he felt himself justified in assisting the College of Maynooth upon the very grounds upon which many of the petitioners who had deluged the House with their objections, opposed the measure. He justified his assistance
 1176 1177 1178
 Mr. Macaulay : I was desirous Sir, to catch your eye this evening, because it happens that I have never yet found an opportunity of fully explaining my views on the important subject of the Irish Church. Indeed, I was not in this country when that subject for a time threw every other into the shade, disturbed the whole political world, produced a schism in the Administration of Lord Grey, and overthrew the short Administration of the right hon. Baronet opposite. The Motion now before us opens, I conceive, the whole question. My hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield, indeed, asks us only to transfer 26,000 l. 1181 1182 1183 1184 l. s. s. 1185 1186 1187 1188 1189 1190 1191 1192 1193 Nemo me impune lacessit. 1194 1195 1196 1197 Hansard, 1198
 Mr. Ward  said, that they had now reached the stage of the Bill at which, in concurrence, he believed, with the wishes of a large number of his political friends, and in perfect accordance with those principles which, as a party, they had advocated for the last ten years in that House, it became his duty to place on record—not their hostility to the Government plan, because in every measure of concession of Roman Catholic rights—in every expression of justice or of kindness which had fallen from the other side of the House towards those whom they, at least, were proud to call fellow-countrymen and fellow Christians—they cordially, and entirely, participated; but their views as to the mode in which the measure contemplated for their benefit might be
 1125 1126 Times 1127 l. 1128 "And among the important facts which we can collect and fully ascertain from the sacred historians, scanty and irregular and imperfect as are their records of particulars, one of the most important is, that very scantiness and incompleteness in the detail—that absence of any full and systematic description of the formation and regulation of Christian communities, that has been just noticed. For we may plainly infer, from this very circumstance, the design of the Holy Spirit, that those details, concerning which no precise directions, accompanied with strict injunctions, are to be found in Scripture, were meant to be left to the regulation of each Church, in each age and country. On any point in which it was designed that all Christians should be, every where, and at all times, bound as strictly as the Jews were to the Levitical law, we may fairly conclude they would have received directions no less precise, and descriptions no less minute, than had been afforded to the Jews." 1129 Après nous le Déluge, l. 1130 Regium Donum; Regium Donum, 1131 "In the United States of America—the slave states of America—there are teachers belonging to every religious sect, which we in this country, have most admired for their strict adherence to their conscientious opinions, and yet we find that that accursed institution of slavery is there palliated, defended, upheld, by the teachers of religion. Why is this? It appears to me that it necessarily so results, because those teachers are dependent upon the popular voice for the maintenance of their position, and therefore that they do not as fearlessly pronounce the words of truth, that they do not as fearlessly defend the great cause of liberty and human freedom, and the subjection of us all to an immortal power, as they would if they felt more independent." "That it would be of immense importance if the Roman Catholic clergy could be made, with regard to a part at least of their revenues, independent of popular passions; and that although their political conduct was entirely free and independent—if every appointment was left entirely unshackled, it was of importance they should have some independence of opinion." 1132 "A religious Establishment is no part of Christianity. It is only a means of inculcating it. Its authority is founded upon its utility." "The alliance between the Church and the State subsists just so long as the Church thereby established maintains its superiority of extent." 1133 "To Sir R. H. Inglis, Bart.—the man whose public and private character most nearly resembles, at the present day, the character of that statesman whose prophetic foresight these pages illustrate." "It is in vain to defend the Church Establishment, or to expect it to be permanently supported in England, or for any length of time endured in Ireland, if the very principle upon which that Establishment rests be cut from under it—the principle that this Kingdom is a Christian Kingdom, that Christianity is the common law of the land—part and parcel of the law in one sense, but the very law and condition of the land in a higher sense still." 1134 "On these principles the Church Establishment may be defended by reasonable and irrefragable argument, even in the sadly anomalous case of Ireland"— "Without these, no exclusive Church Establishment can be defended at all. It becomes a mere question of local and temporary expediency." "The measure was most important for good or for evil. If it work well, it will quiet Ireland." . . "The whole history of that country excites in my mind not merely sympathy, but repentance." … "If the Catholic Church be neither religiously nor politically dangerous, why resist a reconstruction of the Establishment?" 1135 1136 "The petitioners think that this measure is eminently calculated to bring down the judgment of God upon a Protestant country." "A nursery of superstition, bigotry, sedition, and discord, and especially detrimental to the welfare of the Irish people." "No past concessions ever have, and the proposed concession never will, satisfy our Romanist fellow-countrymen." "The peculiar tenets of the Church of Rome, as defined by the Council of Trent, are anti-Christian, anti-social, and idolatrous, and utterly incapable of being reconciled with the genuine doctrines of the Gospel; and that those heresies have been solemnly repudiated by this country for many generations, during which the blessing of Almighty God has descended upon the land in a marked and unprecedented manner." "That signs of the withdrawal of heavenly favour from this country have not been wanting since the passing of the Act of 1829, and that the petitioners regard it as high treason against Heaven to apply the revenues of a Protestant people to the education of a Popish priesthood." 1137 R. H. Inglis: "Those who support the grant to Maynooth might as well found a College for the promotion of theft and adultery." "No improvement was desirable or possible, because the difference between the Maynooth priest and the highly educated and polished Jesuit, is just that between the highwayman and the pickpocket." 1138 "It was said that the proposed measure was intended to raise the intellectual standard of the Roman Catholic priesthood. It was only that very day that a brother clergyman who advocated the measure advanced that as his reason; and he said to him, as he now said to the meeting, what was knowledge without principle? He thought it was with knowledge as with courage—although it practically, perhaps, might make a good man better, it would most certainly make a bad man worse. He did not mean to say that his conscientious Roman Catholic fellow-subjects were bad men, but that, with that bias upon their feelings which belonged to Popish instruction, every acquisition of knowledge must tend to make them more mischievous to society." "That he could not understand how Sir R. Peel could stand beside his Sovereign, with the Bible in one hand and the Maynooth Bill in the other, and feel that he was acting towards that Sovereign with proper allegiance. He cared not a straw for the principles of that man who would take any less foundation, or attempt to build on any less established authority than the Bible." "That no compact for the continuance of this grant could be produced, the alleged compact was all a fiction; but supposing that a compact had ever existed it was void, because there was nothing that could bind them to do that which was contrary to God's word." "Herod's oath had led him to commit the crime of murder. But that oath was valueless, because there was a prior obligation to obey the commandment of God, 'Thou shalt do no murder.'" 1139 "He who assents to it (to the Maynooth grant), worships the beast, and supports that clearly predicted apostacy, which opens its mouth in blasphemy against God, has ever been at war with the saints, and crucifies afresh our Lord and Saviour." "He was forcibly reminded of a description in sacred writ by the position of Sir Robert Peel, 'And behold there met him a woman with the attire of an harlot, and subtle of heart, [ Laughter. renewed laughter renewed bursts of laughter Shouts of laughter, in which the right hon. Baronet heartily joined. 1140 Churchman's Monthly Review and Chronicle, Monthly Review 1141 Colquhoun: "It might be laid down as a fact that the Roman Catholic bishops never made a manifesto of loyalty, except when a political end was to be compassed by it; or when they wished to cover some secret treason against England which was not ripe for explosion. The object of these declarations and manifestoes is now apparent enough. They were intended to mislead the Government of the day, and hoodwink Mr. Pitt with regard to the unconstitutional and dangerous character of the boon they were requiring at his hands, and thus induce him to accede to their proposal. There can be no question as to the reception which ought to have been given to it; a proposition so detestable ought, undoubtedly, to have met with the scorn and detestation it merited. Pitt was a real lover of his country. Every pulse of his noble heart glowed with the purest patriotism—he would have laid down his life for his country—ay, a thousand, if he had them—and his motives on this occasion were, doubtless, patriotic." 1142 "That the intention was to substitute an Oath of Allegiance for the Oath of Supremacy, to make several alterations in the Church Establishment, and to pay the Catholic clergy. Mr. Pitt neglected to mention this ministerially to the King; but others took care that it should reach him in the way most likely to displease him." "Those who secretly, and unknown to the
 1143 "As the most consummate political villains that ever existed. They ought to be held in execration by the country, and their names handed down to posterity with infamy, for they will have been the cause of the destruction of the life or intellect of a Sovereign, to whose kingly virtues this country owes the preservation of its liberties." "Tell him I am now quite well; but what has he not to answer for, who is the cause of my having been ill at all?"—"This affected Mr. Pitt so deeply, that he pledged himself to give up the Catholic question during the King's life." (Vol. iv. p. 32.) "If the event cannot be brought about without affecting, in the smallest degree, the King's health and tranquillity, it shall not happen at all. To feel and say this, is little more than feeling and speaking like a gentleman." 1144 Past and Present Policy of England towards Ireland." "If the Union had been carried out according to the intention of the great Minister who accomplished it, in all human probability the foundation of peace and tranquillity—of political and social improvement—would have been then laid, and we should now be enjoying the vast benefits of his sagacious and healing policy; but as it was, little or nothing was done for effecting what Mr. Pitt had declared to be his main object, namely, to tranquillize Ireland, and to attach it to this country. George III., himself in a state bordering on insanity, invoked to his aid all the prejudices of his people, and successfully resisted the policy which was recommended by Mr. Pitt, and supported by every man—Whig or Tory—who deserved to be called a statesman. It is impossible to conceive anything more lamentable, and—if it were not so lamentable—more ridiculous and contemptible than this transaction. Mr. Pitt resigned; Lord Grenville, Mr. Wyndham, and Mr. Dundas retired with him; and Mr. Addington formed a No-Popery Government out of the dregs of the Cabinet." 1145 1146 l. l. 1147 l. l., s. 1148 1149 l., l.. l. 1150 l. l. l. "View, with alarm the endowment, but expressed their conviction that the revenues of the Irish Established Church, being money drawn from the mass of the Irish people for purposes which the necessity for the present grant shows that the Church has failed signally to accomplish, ought to be the source out of which provision should be made for it. "They were in favour of the voluntary principle; but, seeing that the country is not prepared for its adoption, that a State Church exists, and that even Dissenters accept of assistance from the State in the shape of a  Regium Dounm, "That while thus approving the proposed grant, this deputation at the same time must express its opinion that the ample ecclesiastical revenues of Ireland would furnish the source from which the funds for this purpose might with the greatest justice be supplied." 1151 1152 The Nation 1153 "Our secession from the policy and feelings of the Empire is beginning to be felt. America has acted on it; she has defied England. She has annexed Texas against England's interest and wishes. She occupies and states her intention to annex Oregon—a part, says England, of the British Empire; a part of the States, says Mr. Polk. A more direct defiance was never offered, a more serious hurt has not happened to a great Power these thirty years." "Here is Ireland's position, and let all the world know it that likes, and resent it that can. We court, and are most grateful for, the sympathy of America. We expect from her policy that opportunity which shall not be bargained away for concessions, formal or substantial. We shall resume our liberty as a right, not as a concession. We shall owe England nothing for its recovery; and, least of all, shall we pay her for her reluctant submission to our power, by becoming the tools of her ambition." C'est un pays, dont le sort a dépendu d'une nuit propice 1154 1155 "That it is the opinion of this House that any provision to be made for the purposes of the present Bill, ought to be taken from the Funds already applicable to Ecclesiastical purposes in Ireland."
 Sir J. Graham : If, Sir, I could have consulted with propriety my own feelings, or thought it consistent with my duty, I should have wished upon the present occasion not to obtrude myself upon the House. In reference to this subject, I have upon former occasions spoken frequently and at great length; and I have now to offer very little that is new upon this subject. It is, therefore, with very great reluctance that I now obtrude myself on the House, and I should have been well content to continue silent; but the speech of the right hon. Gentleman who has taken his seat, and the attack he has made on the Government of which I am a Member, render it necessary that I should offer some observations to the House. And, in the first place, I cannot fail at once to address myself to the concluding topics touched upon by the right hon. Gentleman. On a former occasion when the right hon. Gentleman spoke with respect to the present measure of Her Majesty's Government, he said he approved of it—that he did not undervalue its importance—that he admitted the exigency of the circumstances under which it was proposed—and that the measure itself would conduce to the general interests of the Empire. I confess that I was surprised that he should have mingled with the defence of the measure itself so much of party bitterness; but, considering that the right hon. Gentleman is a prominent Member of the party opposite, I did not think, upon the whole, that the public interests were seriously damaged by the course which the right hon. Gentleman took. The speech, however, which the right hon. Gentleman has addressed to the House this night bears, in my mind, another complexion. It was a speech giving utterance, no doubt, to feelings which the right hon. Gentleman seriously entertains; but, coming from a person of his authority and high station, it appears to me that, in the present aspect of affairs, it is pregnant with evil to the public interests. I must say, with reference to the right hon. Gentleman's remarks on the Repeal of the Union, that in every sentiment he uttered, I, for my own part, most cordially agree. I believe that I am speaking the unanimous sense of the House—I am certainly speaking the resolve of Her Majesty's present Government, and I believe also the resolve of any party that may be entrusted with the conduct of public affairs in this country—I
 1199 1200 1201 l. 1202 1203 1204 "In Ireland, a vast proportion of the property, and of the members of the learned professions, whose importance cannot be denied, are attached to the Protestant Church; and anything tending to overturn that Church would be looked upon by me as placing them in a state of political inferiority to their fellow-countrymen. We must also remember that the Act of Union made the Irish Church a part of the Establishment of England." 1205 Ward: 1206 1207 1208
 Sir J. Walsh  said he was an advocate for Church Establishments, considering them to be for the promotion of true religion, and therefore he should oppose the Motion of the hon. Member for Sheffield. He believed, that the success of that Motion would be a fatal blow to existing Establishments, especially to the Established Church in Ireland. The Protestants of Ireland were not to be considered merely in reference to their numbers, but also in reference to their wealth and intelligence. Gentlemen opposite argued as if all Ireland were composed of Roman Catholics, and as if there were no considerable portion of Protestants in that country. It was against that most erroneous and most important delusion he wished to guard the House. Ireland was divided into two important parties. The great difference that existed between the two great classes of Irish society unfortunately led to differences among them. Unfortunately it was the case in that country more than in any other country in the world, that religion was made the watchword of dissension. In legislating for Ireland the object should be, that they should not legislate for one party at the expense of the other. He should say, that at the present moment it was most unwise that any attempt should be made to mar the effect of the boon about to be conferred on one class of the people of Ireland by pressing on the feelings of another class. He regretted that the hon. Member for Sheffield had taken this opportunity to bring forward his Motion, and he thought that he would have acted more judiciously if he had reserved it for some totally different occasion. If they wished to provide in the best way for the peace and tranquillity of Ireland, they should always wish so to act as to reconcile the two great parties in that country to one another. He asked, what must be the probable effect on the Protestant community in Ireland of the success of the Motion of the hon. Member for Sheffield? He admitted at once all that he had urged as to the anomaly of the Irish Church; but it must be recollected that the state of society in Ireland was just as anomalous as the state of the
 1179 Ward 1180
 Sir Robert Peel : I am very unwilling that the House should separate to-night without my protest against the gross misapprehension and misconstruction of what
 1215 1216 1217 1218 1219 l. l. 1220 "The present was just the moment when the Government, after taking strong measures to enforce their own opinions, and to put down views adverse to their own, the present was the moment when they could most favourably introduce measures really tending to improve the character and condition of the Irish people." "A measure of the kind he had now proposed would, above all others, have the highly beneficial effect of showing the people of that country that Parliament and the Government sympathized with them on a subject upon which it had hitherto been considered that Government was either apathetic, most unwilling, or most adverse. The Government might thus show that they truly desired to promote at once the spiritual and the temporal advancement of the people. The establishment of Maynooth ought immediately to be placed upon a higher fooling, so as to fit it for the reception and education of the better classes." 1221 1222 1223 l. 1224 l. l., 1225 1226 Law Law: "Mr. Law—On the Motion for going into Committee on Maynooth College Bill, to move that it is the opinion of this House, that the several sums of Money proposed to be payable by this Bill, and the Schedule thereto annexed, shall not be charged upon or payable by the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury, out of the Consolidated Fund of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland." 1227
 Sir R. Peel : I am obliged to the noble Lord for having given me notice of his question, and I beg to state that it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to propose other measures with regard to academical education in Ireland, irrespective of the measure before the House. It certainly was my earnest wish to proceed with this Bill before any other business; but I will undertake, before the third reading, to give—or that some Member of the Government shall give—a general outline of those other measures.
 Sir T. Fremantle , in rising to oppose the Amendment of the hon. Member for Sheffield, felt called upon to testify his respect for the consistency with which, through good report and through evil report, he had adhered to the principle of his Motion. Whether as a supporter of Ministers in whose policy he agreed, or opposing Ministers from whose political principles he dissented, it could not be denied that the hon. Member had lost no opportunity of bringing forward this Motion, and urging it upon the attention of the House, with that great ability for which he was so justly distinguished. While bearing this due tribute to the hon. Gentleman's consistency and zeal, he must, however, be permitted to say that, in the present instance, the opportunity selected by the hon. Gentleman for proposing his Amendment was most inopportune. He thought so great a principle as that involved in the hon. Member's Motion ought not to have been brought forward incidentally as an Amendment upon a question for the payment of 26,000 l. 1158 1159 l. l., l., l. l. l. 1160 "He and those with whom he acted had struggled hard for the principle of appropriation. Three times they had endeavoured to scale the perilous breach, and three times they suffered repulse; three times they had battled to carry the principle, and three times they had been defeated; and he could not shut his eyes to the fact, that in the present state of affairs and of parties the chance of success in the present year was not, to say the least, one whit more promising. Feeling this, they had thought it their duty to bring forward a Bill which did not compromise the principle of appropriation; and he equally felt that it was their duty, having taken this step according to the best of their judgment, and with a sincere view of doing what they thought would most benefit the country and secure the peace of that part which was mainly interested—viz. Ireland; having brought forward a Bill which did not compromise the principle of appropriation, he felt called upon to resist the Resolution now moved by the hon. Member for Sheffield." "Again, they had been reproached for not following up the Appropriation Clause for the benefit of all classes in Ireland who would receive religious instruction. That course might, no doubt, have been adopted by Government;
 1161 l. "He believed the total amount of the Church property in Ireland was 512,000 l., l. l., l. 1162 l. 1163 "And whereas the Protestant Episcopal Church of England and Ireland, and the doctrine, discipline, and government thereof, and likewise the Protestant Presbyterian Church of Scotland, and the doctrine, discipline, and government thereof, are by the respective Acts of Union of England and Scotland, and of Great Britain and Ireland, established permanently and inviolably." 1164 l. "I consider the Protestant Establishment of Ireland a main link in the connexion between Great Britain and Ireland. The Protestant Church of Ireland is rooted in the Constitution. It is established by the fundamental laws of the realm; it is rendered, as far as the most solemn Acts of the Legislature can render any institution, fundamental and perpetual; it is declared so by the Act of Union between Great Britain and Ireland. I think it could not now be disturbed without danger to the general securities we possess for liberty, property, and order, and without danger to all the blessings we derive under a lawful Government and a free Constitution." 1165 l. 1166 Ireland and its Rulers; "By abolishing the Irish Protestant Church, you will cut away the strongest link that binds the upper nation with England." "It is difficult enough to govern Ireland, with the lower nation aspiring to self-government; but how is Ireland to be kept, if the hold on both nations be lost? The Church is far more dear to the upper nation in Ireland than its sister Establishment is to any of the English people. It is connected with all that the upper Irish nation holds most venerable and dear. Whatever of historic pride—whatever of transmitted associations—whatever of inspiring recollections are common to the Irish Protestants—are clustered around the Establishment.
 1167 "'A breath could make it, as a breath has made.'" "The abolition of the Protestant Establishment would give a shock of a moral nature to the Union. Such a measure as the destruction of the Church would be visibly proclaiming to universal Ireland that England made very light of the Act of Union; that she considered it of no binding force; that it was not to be considered as a solemn Treaty, but merely as a trumpery Act of Parliament, in itself not more entitled to respect than a local Bill concerning a turnpike trust. The Act of Union may externally, or taken merely in its instrumental sense, not be more than any other Act of Parliament. Its wax and parchment are not of themselves more venerable than those of the Act of Settlement, or of any other Act of Parliament; but the Union between the two countries was a moral transaction, involving the highest national considerations; and if the English Legislature sets no value on its essential and almost fundamental agreement, that the Church of Ireland continue established by law, how can the Union itself be entitled to any consideration, any reverence, or respect from any portion of the Irish people? If the Solemn contrivances to exact regulations of the Union be disregarded by England, why should the institution of political incorporation be considered as valid?" 1168 "With regard to the constitution of the Church, we are indeed inviolably attached to our own: first, because we believe it to be true; and, next, because, beyond belief, we know that its principles are calculated to make us, and have made us, good men and citizens. But as we find it answers to us, individually,
 1169 "Your petitioners most solemnly declare, that they do not seek or wish in any way to injure or encroach upon the rights, privileges, possessions, or revenues appertaining to the bishops and clergy of the Protestant religion as by law established, or to the churches committed to their charge, or any of them; the extent of their humble application being, that they be governed by the same laws, and rendered capable of the same civil and military offices, franchises, rewards, and honours, as their fellow subjects of every other religious denomination." "Do you conceive that there exists a desire on the pint of the Catholic Church generally, or of many individuals in it, supposing the arrangements referred to in a former question to be made or not, to possess themselves of any part of the revenues of the Church of England? Whether such arrangements were made or not made, I never discovered in others, nor have I entertained myself, any disposition whatever to be put into possession of any portion at all of the revenues or property belonging to the Established Church. I will add, that if any portion of that property were offered to me. I would not accept of it; that if it were proposed to grant the stipend at present spoken of out of the tithes received by the clergy of the Establishment, I would not be induced to accept of it.—Without meaning to doubt that which you have stated, were it possible to suppose such a disposition to exist on the part of the Roman Catholic Church, is it one that would find any countenance or favour on the part of the Roman Catholic laity? Unquestionably not; they would be more averse to it than the Roman Catholic clergy, if more averse to it they could be." 1170 "The petitioners consider it due, not more to themselves than to their fellow subjects in Great Britain, to declare their conscientious impression that many, if not all, of the prejudices still retained against their claims, result from an ignorance of their actual condition, their principles, and their objects. The petitioners seek not the destruction, but the enjoyment of the Constitution, and in the pursuit of that desire, they do not by any means solicit, or expect, or wish, that a single individual of their Protestant fellow-subjects should be deprived of any right, liberty, privilege, or immunity, of which he is at present possessed. The petitioners, in praying for the restoration of their rights, seek not, nor do they wish to burden the State with, any provision or pension for the ministers of their religion, nor do they seek, nor have they sought, to deprive any class of His Majesty's subjects of any right, privilege, or franchise whatsoever." 1171
 Sir Walter James  saw many objections to the particular Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Sheffield. It would be insulting to the Irish Establishment and to the Irish Protestants to introduce into the Committee considerations with regard to the Act of Union, in respect of a Bill which simply had for its object to endow the College of Maynooth. But, when he stated this, when he stated that in his opinion there were grave technical as well as constitutional difficulties in the way of the Motion, he must say that he did think that the subject of the Irish Church must, before many years elapsed, be seriously brought under the consideration of Parliament. He said so, grieving that such a course should become necessary; for he deeply respected the Establishment—he admired its creed; he was warmly devoted to its clergy, and to everything which ever had or which ever would belong to it. He had been urged by his constituents to oppose the increased endowment to Maynooth; but he would be ashamed of himself had he given any countenance to those representations. His family had always supported Catholic Emancipation, and this Bill he considered as its necessary consequence. He believed also it was the intention of Mr. Pitt to have accompanied the Act of Union with a measure for the payment of the Roman Catholic priesthood in Ireland. Among those who had made representations to him on this subject there was one body for which he must profess his sincere respect—the Wesleyan Methodists. This class of religionists somewhat resembled the Roman Catholic priesthood in their pious labours among the poor. They visited mines and collieries to impart the light of the gospel to those who were without spiritual instruction. He felt bound to give that body his sincere though humble tribute of respect; but he could not agree with the views which had been urged upon him on the subject under discussion. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the right hon. Gentleman
 1172 l. l. Cork Reporter, 1173 1174 l. l.; l.,
 Mr. S. Wortley  thought the Resolution would be a more effectual protection to the public if words were introduced to establish not only a maximum of charge, but also a proper proportion between the rates of passenger and goods traffic. He moved an amendment to insert the words, "Such railway, and the proportion to be observed between such rules of charge respectively."
 Mr. Bernal  said, we lived in singular political times, and as a proof of the fact, he might cite his own case, at finding himself called on to oppose the view of the question taken by his right hon. Friend (Mr. Baring). His right hon. Friend was a powerful opponent of any measure, because it was quite evident that his sentiments proceeded from his heart. But he confessed, in this instance, the reasoning of his right hon. Friend had not satisfied him, nor would it deter him from openly expressing his opinion that, in his judgment, the right course for him to take was to support the Motion of the hon. Member for Sheffield. When his right hon. Friend said he wished to warn the House not to embark in a course of difficulties which would have the effect of fettering subsequent legislation, he would ask the right hon. Gentleman how he proposed to remove the difficulty? Did the right hon. Gentleman think the Bill of the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) was sailing as it were, on a Mediterranean Sea, with no wintry gales to disturb its unruffled progress? So far from this being the case, he considered that the Bill was embarked on a tempestuous ocean; and he would tell the right hon. Gentleman that there were difficulties in it which would embarrass its progress more certainly than any Motion which the hon. Member for Sheffield would bring forward. His right hon. Friend had asked whether the proposition would conciliate the opponents of the Government measure; and had advised Government to attend to the opinions of the people. He quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that it was right to attend to the opinion of the people when
 1268 odium theologicum 1269 1270 from the Treasury bench. 1271 l. 1272
 Captain Gladstone  wished briefly to state his reasons for the vote he had already given, and was about to give. He wished to speak with all respect of the gentlemen who signed the petitions from the place he represented; but having made up his mind to support the grant, he would be less entitled to their confidence if he did not vote according to his convictions. As an hon. Member had given notice of a Motion to make the grant annual, he should, for the present, reserve what he had to say on that point. From a personal visit to Maynooth College he could confirm what had been stated by the right hon. Gentleman (Sir R. Peel) respecting the dilapidated state of the building, and the insufficiency of the fund for the maintenance of the students. The present state of Maynooth was not creditable to the State with which it was connected, nor were the feelings with which the students left the College favourable to the general peace of the country. By improving the education of those who were to be the future priests, they would bind the institution in a better spirit, and no doubt would materially contribute to soften the animosities existing between the Roman Catholic peasantry and their Protestant fellow-subjects. He did not agree with those who thought the endowment of the Roman Catholic clergy lurked behind the present measure. If that were his belief he would not support the grant. It did not necessarily follow that because we gave a better education to the Roman Catholic priesthood, we were therefore bound to provide for them in after life. During his visit to the College of Maynooth, he asked the rev. President, to whose kindness he bore willing testimony—"Suppose a larger and more liberal endowment were made, would it induce the higher classes of Roman Catholics to send their sons to enter the priesthood?" His answer was—"a higher class does not exist." He meant that they did not exist in sufficient numbers to fill up
 1273 "Has the Catholic church fallen for want of money? No: she was never in a more triumphant state. She has four archbishops, twenty-three bishops, two thousand parish priests, each of whom has two or three curates. We have an unbroken hierarchy as perfect and as organized as before the days of Henry VIII. It is not money, then, that supports her."
 Lord J. Russell  said, he did not suppose there would be much discussion on the subject of the right hon. Baronet's statement as to Scotch Banks, and that it would not be too late to proceed with the discussion of this subject to-morrow. He, therefore, thought the right hon. Baronet's proposal very reasonable; but he should be sorry to concur in the statement of the noble Lord, that there had been any factious opposition. The opposition had been carried on as fairly as possible; and he did not think the second reading had been hurried on improperly.
 Mr. Law  hoped that the Government would not leave hon. Members in uncertainty as to the course intended to be pursued. The hon. Member for Montrose wished to express his sentiments on banking to-morrow evening, and it would be impossible if he spoke to prevent other Gentlemen from addressing the House also; and he did think, therefore, that it would save the time of the House, and greatly promote the convenience of many hon. Members, if Monday was fixed for the resumption of this subject.
 Mr. Sidney Herbert : Sir, I will detain the House only while I say a very few words. I will not enter into the question of the Protestant Church Establishment; I will make no allusion even to the time chosen by the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Ward), though I do most deeply regret
 1306 1307 Cheers. 1308 1309
 Lord Northland , as one who voted against the second reading of this Bill, would not lend himself to this factious opposition.
 Lord Northland  said, he merely stated that he would not be a party to any factious opposition.
 Lord G. Somerset  hoped the House would not agree with the Amendment, but adopt the original Resolution.
 Lord G. Somerset  moved the following Resolution:—
 "That every Committee on a Railway Bill shall fix the Tolls, and shall determine the maximum rates of charge for the conveyance of passengers (with a due amount of luggage) and of goods on such Railway; and such rates of charge shall include the Tolls, and the costs of locomotive power and every other expense connected with the conveyance of passengers (with a due amount of luggage) and of goods upon such Railway; but if the Committee shall not deem it expedient to determine such maximum rates of charge, a special Report, explanatory of the grounds of their omitting so to do, shall be made to the House, which special Report shall accompany the Report of the Bill."
 Mr. Hawes  expressed a wish that if Committees were to be required to conform to this Resolution, the House should instruct them by what means they were to accomplish that task, for all the elements upon which the Committees were to calculate the maximum of charge must be furnished by the companies themselves, and Committees would have no other means of estimating what ought to be the maximum. He held this notice to be utterly useless, and, because useless, unwise. So strongly did he hold that opinion, that if he had the least chance of success, he should take the sense of the House upon the question.
 Mr. E. B. Roche  said, that he could not but admit that the measure proposed by the right hon. Baronet in respect to Maynooth was a good one as far as it went. It was a measure that was introduced, he believed, in a good, an honest, and a kind spirit; and for that reason he regretted that the Protestant Church in Ireland should have been brought forward on this occasion. He regretted it the more because, urged by old and long-entertained principles, he should give his vote in favour of the Motion of the hon. Member for Sheffield. The question of the Irish Church was not, after all, as important a question now as it was some years since. It was
 1299 1300 G. A. Hamilton; 1301
 Mr. Ellice  (Coventry)  rose principally to set himself right with the House, with respect to a statement made by his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department, in the course of his speech last evening. But before he did so, he wished to say, in a few words, that he cordially supported the present Motion. He should have been at some loss to do so, if he thought it would in any way have interfered with the success of the measure which Her Majesty's Government had introduced. But, inasmuch as he saw that it was practicable to come to such a vote without injuring the progress of that measure, and as he thought it essential upon this, probably the first step in a new course of ecclesiastical polity in respect to Ireland,
 1296 1297 1298 "For what has this sacrifice been made (alluding to the loss of his two right hon. Friends), but that the Government should be enabled to act upon one principle, and to avow that principle now before the House—" "I scarcely know how to interpret that cheer coming from the quarter it does. But if it means that the Government is not united and determined to act consistently with its declarations, I say that if I had thought there had been the least difference upon one principle amongst those who formed the new Government, and that principle was the one of advising the fit application of the surplus revenues of the Church of Ireland to purposes not dissimilar from those stated in the Resolution of the hon. Member for St. Alban's, I would have been the last man to have joined it."
 Mr. G. A. Hamilton  was very sensible of the disadvantage under which he laboured in addressing the House after the noble Lord who had just sat down, and at so late a period in the debate; but he was glad he had been unable to catch the Speaker's eye, as he had sought to do, at an early period of the preceding evening, for he had the opportunity of now remarking upon some most erroneous statements—some gross mis-statements—that had been made by the hon. and learned Member for Bath, in reference to the Irish branch of the Church of England; and also by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Edinburgh. These hon. Members had spoken of the Church of Ireland as consisting of pastors without a flock, as consisting of Protestant sinecure parsons; and the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Bath had stated,
 1283 1284 l. l. l., l. l. l. l., l. l. 1285 l. 1286 1287 1288 1289 "Majores quoque, si divinássent concedendo omnia, plebem in se non mitiorero, sed asperiorem, alia ex allis iniquiora postulando quam prima impetrassent, futurum, quamlibet dimicationem subitures fuisse, potius quam tales leges sibi imponi paterentur."
 Mr. Aglionby  said he should give his cordial support to the present and every other proposition calculated to guard the public against what he considered the extreme powers of railway companies. He hoped some measure would be introduced to check the injustice which was committed by some companies, who, while they consulted the convenience and the pockets of long and wealthy passengers, utterly neglected the wants of the intermediate and poorer travellers.
 Sir H. W. Barron  said, it was a remarkable fact, that although that debate had continued for two nights, not one single Irish Roman Catholic had risen to express his opinion on the question before the House. As an Irish Roman Catholic Member, he could not vote that night without previousl tendering his thanks to the Government for the manner in which they had brought forward the question with regard to Maynooth. No man in that House had given to them a more firm, decided, manly and open opposition than he had done at all times and under all circumstances. But when he found them adopting a course which was diametrically opposed to the policy by which they had obtained power, he was willing to tender to them, in the name of his constituents and of the people of Ireland, with whose feelings he was well acquainted, his most sincere thanks. He thought that, consistently with this feeling, he could not vote for the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield. He conceived that it would be ingratitude towards the Government, and inconsistent with the respect which he entertained for the object which hey had in view, and the manner in which hey had brought the measure forward, if he were to vote otherwise than he intended.
 1310 1311
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that seeing the course which railway proceedings were perhaps necessarily taking, and that the public were day by day getting more and more into the hands of a few powerful companies, it was absolutely necessary that some means should be devised of placing a check upon their power of monopoly, and he was very glad that this Resolution had been proposed for the purpose.
 Mr. Colquhoun  hoped the House would allow him to refer to a personal matter relative to himself, which had been raised by the hon. Member for Sheffield in his speech last night, in the course of which the hon. Member took notice of some expressions made use of by him some time ago, which the hon. Member said were very fallacies and great inaccuracies with reference to certain historical facts. The hon. Member said, that he had uttered these expressions nine years ago, and he called upon him to retract or defend them. Now, he should be quite inexcusable if he attempted to take up the time of the House by going at length into these matters, for it was not in the House that he should presume to occupy any time on any such a topic; but he might be allowed to say that it was probable there were sentiments in that speech which maturer information might induce him to qualify. It would be hard if he alone were debarred from the privilege of reflection; if he were not to derive any advantage from that communication with others which was usually found to mitigate one's own opinions, and induce men to adopt something from the opinions of others, by showing how much sincerity there might be in the contrary opinions, how much was due to others, and how much respect one ought to cherish for the opinions of others. So much for that part of the matter. But as to the historical facts, the hon. Gentleman had specified two, in regard to which the hon. Member stated that he (Mr. Colquhoun) was wrongly informed. He should not occupy the time of the House by defending himself with respect to these two facts; but he had brought down two volumes, which he would put into the hon. Member's hands, and in them he would see the grounds of his assertions. One of them was a life of Wolfe Tone, the agent of the Roman Catholics at
 1246 1247 1248 l. 1249 "It is the self-same question by which Cabinet after Cabinet has been annihilated, of which the Catholic question was but a part. It is the struggle for complete political equality on the part of the overwhelming majority on the one hand, and for political ascendancy on the part of a minority on the other. Can that ascendancy be maintained?" "The Church of the minority—the Church from which no imaginable benefit can henceforward flow; but whence evils after evils in such continuous abundance have been derived." "It is stated that the Church cements the Union. At this moment it disturbs the foundation of the Legislature, brings both Houses of Parliament into collision, and to the centre shakes the Constitution." 1250 1251 1252 Freeman's Journal, l. 1253 1254 1255 1256 1257
 Mr. Plumptre  denied that there had been any factious opposition to this measure; but there was a strong feeling out of that House that the second reading had been brought forward very prematurely, and, as he had heard said, with indecent haste.
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet if he was aware of a monster meeting which was to take place in London on the 30th of this month, at which
 1244
 Captain Ralph Osborne  did not think it was a very satisfactory spectacle for the admirers of their academical institutions to see that the Representatives of the Universities, with one exception that might be taken, were to a man disinclined to consent to any measure of liberality. He denied, however, that the hon. Gentleman who had spoken last, represented the feelings of the Protestants in Ireland; he represented only the Orange party of that country, and while he talked of their loyalty, what did the right hon. Baronet think when the hon. Gentleman threatened, if the Government added insult to injury, that they would join the Repealers? [Mr.  G. A. Hamilton: 1290 "God forbid I should contend that the Church has the same power over its property as individuals have over theirs; there is no sort of analogy between them. The Church receives its property for performing certain service; private persons hold theirs unconditionally." 1291 1292 Ireland and its Rulers "The religion of the Irish Church partook rather of Puritanism than Protestantism, and that its clergy were much of the same creed as the Dissenters; they preached a sour and bitter morality, and were found to entertain narrow and pedantic views, unlike their English brethren." 
 
 PROBATES OF WILLS OF IRISH BISHOPS. 
 £. 
 Stopford, Bishop of Cork 25,000 
 Percy, Bishop of Dromore 40,000 
 Cleaver, Bishop of Ferns 50,000 
 Bernard, Bishop of Limerick 60,000 
 Knox, Bishop of Killaloe 100,000 
 Fowler, Bishop of Dublin 150,000 1293 
 
 £. 
 Beresford, Bishop of Tuam 250,000 
 Hawkins, Bishop of Raphoe 250,000 
 Stuart, Bishop of Armagh 300,000 
 Porter, Bishop of Clogher 250,000 
 Agar, Bishop of Cashel 400,000 
 Making a total of £1,875,000 1294
 Mr. Monckton Milnes  presented a petition from the University of Cambridge, in favour of the grant.
 Mr. Monckton Milnes  said, he would have properly explained the nature of the petition, if his hon. Friend had only permitted him to finish. The petition presented was from members of the University of Cambridge, and signed by a considerable number of bachelors and under-graduates of the University. The petitioners stated that a petition similarly signed had been presented to the House by the hon. Member for Cambridge against the Bill; and that they thought it their duty to state
 1245
 Captain Bateson  said: Entertaining as I do, Sir, the strongest objections to this Bill, and deeply regretting that Her Majesty's Ministers should have thought it their duty to introduce such a measure, I had intended to have addressed a few words to the House on the second reading of the Bill, for the purpose of recording my solemn protest against a measure which I consider fraught with such disastrous consequences to my country; but after the very able and eloquent speeches I have heard delivered against the Bill by hon. Members on this side of the House, and after their eloquence having failed to deter Her Majesty's Ministers from proceeding with the Bill, it would have been great presumption in me to think that any observations falling from so young a Member of this House as myself, could have any influence. I therefore gave a silent vote against the Bill. But, Sir, upon this occasion, as an Irish Protestant, and as a member of the Established Church in that country, I feel impelled by every sense of duly to raise my feeble voice against so monstrous, so iniquitous a proposition as that of the hon. Member for Sheffield. I am opposed to it on account of my Church, which I love and revere, and which I shall always be found prepared to defend from spoliation. I am opposed to it on account of its gross injustice. Why, Sir, I consider I should have just as much right to come down to this House and propose that the property of the hon. Member for Sheffield
 1258 1259 "That the Protestant Church of Ireland is at the root of the evils of that country, that the Irish Catholics would thank us infinitely more if we were to wipe out that foul spot, than they would, even if Parliament were to establish the Roman Catholic Church along-side of it." "That we have every thing Protestant—a Protestant clique which has been permanent in the country—a Protestant Viceroy to distribute places and emoluments amongst that Protestant clique—Protestant Judges, who have polluted the seats of justice—Protestant magistrates, before whom the Catholic peasant could not hope for justice." "That Ireland has not only Protestant but exterminating landlords; and more than that,
 1260
 Mr. Gisborne  thought that unless the House of Commons were prepared to abandon all attempts at placing a limit on the charges of railway companies, they must adopt some course such as that now proposed; but at the same time he trusted much more to the principle of competition
 1242
 Colonel Verner  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland whether the Government was aware of a great demonstration which was fixed to take place at Dundalk, on Thursday next, the 1st of May, on which occasion Mr. O'Connell was expected to be present? Invitations had been circulated, particularly throughout Ulster, calling on the people to assemble on the occasion, for the purpose of escorting that Gentleman (Mr. O'Connell) to the place of meeting. He wished to know whether it were the intention of the Government to put a stop to this meeting, in accordance with the sentiments expressed by the Law Officers of the Crown with regard to meetings of this description? He had to apologize to the right hon. Gentleman for not having made him acquainted with his intention of bringing forward this matter. Had he had sufficient time, he would have given the right hon. Gentleman due notice of his question.
 Sir C. Napier  wished to ask the hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Treasury whether two letters, which had appeared in one of the public papers, in reference to Maynooth, were genuine or not? If the House would permit him, he would read them. They ran as follows:—
 Mr. F. T. Baring  feared if he did not state his views upon the question, the vote he was about to give might be liable to much misconstruction; he was, therefore, desirous that the House should bear with him for a short time, while he explained the grounds upon which he was prepared to prefer the Bill of the right hon. Gentleman (Sir Robert Peel) to the Amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield; and he felt the more compelled to crave this indulgence at the hands of the House, inasmuch as his right hon. Friend the Member for Edinburgh, in his able speech of the previous night, commenced by stating, that the House was divided on this occasion into two parties: the one, those who were prepared to vote with his hon. Friend the Member for
 1261
 Mr. F. T. Baring : But whatever might be his abstract opinion, the case now was this:—they had before them a measure which would clearly benefit the Irish people, and a proposal they might fairly carry out, and his course, as a practical man, was rather to take the good they were sure of being able to obtain, than interpose a proposition which, whatever its abstract
 1262 1263 1264 1265 1266 1267
 Sir G. Clerk  tought the Resolution would be beneficial, and that it would meet with a ready acquiescence from railway companies themselves, as in fact some companies had voluntarily inserted clauses in their Bills fixing a maximum of charge.
 Sir George Grey  said, that however important the Amendment might be, as it was brought forward without due notice, it should be postponed for some future occasion.
 Mr. Ward : What I said was, that perfect equality should be obtained some way or other, and that you should pay all the clergy or pay none.
 Sir R. Inglis  hoped that the hon. Gentlemen who thought with him would not be put to the trouble of another division at that late hour, and that therefore the right hon. Baronet would be content with

 1315 pro formâ,
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, that this was a misnomer in respect to the petition just presented to the House, in so far as he had heard it stated that it was from the University of Cambridge. If it were so, he apprehended it was properly signed and stamped with the seal of the University. As a petition emanating from the University, it purported to be a petition signed by the chancellor, masters, and scholars, and no petition not so signed and sealed could be considered as a petition from the University of Cambridge.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, he distinctly understood, on going into the upper lobby, that the further discussion should not be proceeded with until Monday next.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that if he gave his assurance that the discussion on this subject should not commence at a later hour than nine o'clock, he thought it should be considered satisfactory.
 Sir R. Peel  would give the same answer as he had given to a former question that evening, that, as he had not had any notice of the question, he was unprepared with a reply. He would state, however, to soothe the apprehensions of the hon. Gentleman, that he (Sir R. Peel) did not feel at all alarmed.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that on the understanding that the hon. Baronet and his Friends would not make any objection to the Speaker leaving the Chair, he would make the Motion immediately after they got into Committee, that the Chairman leave the Chair; but surely they ought to sit again to-morrow, if the discussion on the Scotch and Irish Banks were over soon enough. Indeed, he hoped there would be no discussion, but that he would be allowed merely to make a general explanation. [Mr.  Hume:
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  observed that as he had received no previous notice of the question, he was not prepared to answer it. He had had no communication from Ireland on the subject himself; and, with reference to what might pass in Ireland, there was no doubt the Lord Lieutenant would take such steps as the occasion required, if any such steps became necessary.
 Sir T. Fremantle  thought that he might make the same answer to that as to the former question.
 Viscount Bernard  said, the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland had asked what would be the fate of the Irish Church, were it to be decided by an Irish Parliament sitting in Dublin? Now, he would ask the noble Lord, and he would ask the
 1295 l.
 Viscount Howick : I agree to a great extent in what fell, in the beginning of his
 1274 l. 1275 1276 1277 1278 1279 1280 1281 1282
 Viscount Palmerston : Sir, I can assure the House that I shall detain them but for a very few moments from that division to which they are anxious to go; for it is not my intention to go into any of those extraneous topics which have been treated of by hon. Gentlemen who have taken part in this debate, and which have not immediately borne upon the question we are now discussing. Sufficient, I think, for the debate is the question thereof. And the Motion of the hon. Gentleman raises a question of sufficient importance to render it unnecessary for us upon this occasion to debate the Bill which is now passing through this House. Sir, if my hon. Friend had brought forward his Motion at the time and under the circumstances in which he first gave notice of it, I should have felt it my duty to vote against him, unwilling as I should have been to take any step which should, by any remote possibility, have endangered the safety of the
 1302 1303 1304 1305
 Mr. Law  would at once comply with the suggestion. Allowing the House now to go into Committee, he would give notice that upon the bringing up of the Report he should move that it be received that day six months. He supposed that the Report would be brought up on Monday.
 Mr. Fox Maule  rose to do that which he felt bound to do on the present occasion, to give his best thanks to the right hon. Baronet for the clear and distinct explanation he had given of his measure, and to acknowledge that he had most fully redeemed every pledge he had given to the deputation (of which he was a member) that waited upon him a few days ago, notwithstanding the extreme pressure of public business which might well have been urged by the right hon. Baronet as an excuse for not doing so. Under the circumstances in which the measure was brought forward, it would not be proper to discuss it or pronounce any opinion upon it; but he must be permitted to say one thing. Without saying whether the measure was a good or bad one, he must admit that it was by no means so dangerous as he had expected. He made that admission freely, and in the same spirit in which the right hon. Baronet had given his explanation, without reference to any party feeling or any such low and unworthy motive; and he hoped in the same spirit the right hon. Baronet's explanation would be weighed by the approaching meetings in the various counties in Scotland. If they were to have interference with the banks of Scotland—and he could wish they were allowed to remain as they were—still it was gratifying that that interference would proceed on fair and reasonable terms, and without interrupting the confidence Scotland had in her present long-continued and hitherto unfettered system. He thought the right hon. Baronet had opened some grounds of argument which might be adverted to at a future stage of the Bill. He at one time considered that it might be more beneficial to the parties interested, that the explanation of the right hon. Baronet should go down to Scotland without any ulterior step being taken; but his opinion was now altered; he thought there was no ground for objecting to the introduction of the Bill; in its printed form they would be better able to judge of its details. All he would say on this occasion was, that in assenting to the introduction of the Bill, he must not be understood as bound to any of its details.
 Mr. C. Wood  wished to ask a question or two. The right hon. Baronet was probably aware that at present small notes for fractional parts of a pound circulated in Ireland; was it intended by the right hon. Baronet's measure to interfere with them, and prohibit the future issue of those 25 s. s.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, his object was rather to direct the right hon. Baronet's attention to the point, than to ask him at once to pronounce an opinion upon it one way or the other; but there was another question of more importance he wished to put. He understood the right hon. Baronet proposed that the returns of the issues of the Scotch hanks should be made as at present—weekly; and the right hon. Baronet then, as he understood, proposed to compound from those weekly returns a monthly return of the average circulation, which he compares, with the view of arriving at the limit of circulation to be imposed under the Bill. The right hon. Baronet compares the monthly average with the limit derived from the yearly average, and all notes beyond that limit were to be issued on the basis of specie—not specie deposited anywhere, but specie in the hands of the bank that made the issues. And to enable the Government to ascertain the specie in hand, all the banks were to be called upon to make a confidential return to the Government, at all times and under all circumstances, of the amount of specie in their coffers. And then, if the first monthly average of notes issued did not exceed the limit so laid down, no more of course was to be said; but if the amount of the monthly average were found to be beyond and in excess of the yearly limit, it would be sufficient for the Government if the amount of the excess did not exceed the amount of specie (which they would see by the Returns) held by the bank. If the monthly average did not exceed the yearly limit all would be right; and if it did, the Government would have in their hands a return which would enable them to see that the excess was provided for by an amount of specie which should be be-beyond, or equal, to that excess. [Sir  R. Peel: 1348
 Mr. C. Wood : Was he to understand that there was to be no publication of returns beyond that they had already—the average of each lunar month?
 Mr. C. Wood : But what is the return you intend to publish?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that if all public bodies were liable to be called on for the production of their correspondence, people must be careful as to the private letters addressed to them.
 Mr. Warburton  remembered a remarkable observation of the right hon. the First Lord of the Treasury, which bore on this point. It was this—that where powers were given to a public body for the discharge of public functions, it was amenable to Parliament for the manner in which it performed them. This correspondence came strictly under that character.
 Mr. Warburton  wished to have some explanation upon one point. The right hon. Baronet had stated that the deposit in specie—equivalent to the amount of excess of issue over the thirteen months averages—might be in gold or in silver. He presumed that in stating that he would thus give the option to banks of having their specie either in gold or silver, the right hon. Gentleman did not mean to exempt them from the obligation of paying in gold any notes that might be presented representing an amount above 40s. He wished for some positive assurance upon this point.
 Mr. Colquhoun  thanked the Government that, as there was to be interference in the system of banking in Scotland, it was of that limited nature that had called forth the qualified approbation of the right hon. Member for Perth. The Government had exercised a sound discretion on this subject, as well as on the Poor Law question, in not assimilating the institutions of Scotland to those of England. In agricultural districts he feared that the plan of the right hon. Baronet might act prejudicially. So far as he was informed (though in towns he believed the average of the thirteen lunar months would be fair enough) — in the agricultural districts, where there was a very large circulation during two months, as compared with the rest of the year, he feared the limitation during those two months would be by the proposed averages limited, and that limitation would press severely on the agricultural and commercial population. Under those circumstances he thought, in those parts of the country where it should be the object to extend the accommodation liberally, they would contract the circulation unfairly and injuriously.
 Mr. Hume  had come down to the House
 1352
 Mr. Hume  wished to make one observation. The right hon. Baronet had stated that the Scotch banks took a smaller, when the Bank of England charged a higher rate of interest. Now the evidence upon the subject proved that the reverse was the case. While the Scotch banks were charging 4 and 5 per cent. the Bank of England was lending money at 3½ per cent.
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  had no intention to oppose the introduction of the Bill, but rather to express his surprise that the right hon. Baronet had thought it necessary in any degree, however slightly, to interfere with a system so perfect and unobjectionable as experience had proved the banking
 1350 Corn and Currency, l., 1351 l., l. l.,
 Mr. Sheil  could not but express his strong approbation of the system proposed to be adopted towards provincial banking in Ireland, the state of which had for many years been made the subject of much and merited complaint. There was, for example, the town of Drogheda, the commerce and manufactures of which were rapidly extending, and which was connected with Dublin by, he might say, an hour's distance; there was Dundalk, within sixty-four miles of Dublin; and Carlow, still nearer the capital, All these towns must be essentially benefited by the measure now proposed. And it was to him matter of great gratification that the privileges now to be abolished had not been rudely torn from the Bank of Ireland, but on the contrary, voluntarily surrendered, so that there could arise no complaint from any quarter whatever upon the subject. A safeguard against excessive issue was most desirable, and he thought the proposition for taking thirteen lunar months as the time the average issues within which should be fixed as the maximum for future issues—any surplus issue over that amount requiring a like amount of specie to represent it—he repeated that that proposition seemed fair and reasonable.
 Mr. Wakley  having presented a petition, signed by upwards of 200 of the students of the London University, generally approving of the measure, but objecting to certain portions of it, the hon. Gentleman went on to observe that it was understood that the discussion upon the measure should be taken at an after stage, and therefore it was not his intention to go into the question now. He wished, however, to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet to that passage in the petition which he had just presented, which prayed that the Bill might not be made retrospective in its effects, but that students registered as such at the present time should be allowed to qualify under the present existing rules. He hoped that Government would take the case of the petitioners under its favourable consideration. He wished also to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman, which, if it should prove inconvenient to answer at once, his having put it would, he hoped, be considered as a notice that he should ask it again on Monday. It had been stated in print that the right hon. Gentleman had declared that he considered it impossible that the general practitioners should be enfranchised in the College of Surgeons in London. He understood that the right hon. Gentleman had stated the door to be absolutely closed in that institution to any arrangement between the Council and the Members of the College—by whom he meant the general practitioners of England and Wales. He wished to know whether these statements had really been made as reported.
 Mr. Wakley  observed, that the students
 1358
 Mr. Wakley  gave notice that he should do so on Monday.
 Mr. Baring  would not enter into the merits of the proposal, as he apprehended that it was understood that it was the best course at present merely to hear the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman, reserving any opinion which they might have to offer upon the subject for another opportunity. He should not, indeed, have thought it necessary to say a word, were it not that hon. Gentlemen on either side of him had not scrupled to express their opinion upon different points. He would merely say, however, that he reserved to himself perfect freedom of expression for a future occasion; and he assured the hon. Gentleman who sat near him that he could not consider anything which affected the circulation of Ireland and Scotland as foreign in interest to an English Member. If any
 1353
 Mr. F. Baring : If I understand correctly, these banks are to be allowed to issue notes up to the amount of the limit in each case, and beyond that an excess in notes equal to the amount of specie in their possession?
 Sir James Graham  had no objection, as a Member of the Government, to the hon. Member's moving for the Return alluded to; but as a Member of Parliament he did entertain objections to a document being moved for, the production of which the House had no power to compel.
 Sir James Graham  was much obliged to the hon. Gentleman for not insisting on the right he possessed of opposing the second reading of the Bill. He thought, on the whole, that the course which he had taken would be found to be the most convenient. He proposed to read the Bill a second time this evening, and to fix the Committee for the last day before the Whitsuntide holidays — Wednesday, the 7th of next month. He allowed this long interval to elapse, with the view of being enabled to complete certain arrangements which he hoped would enable him to in-
 1357
 Sir James Graham  moved the Second Reading this Bill.
 Sir James Graham  said, that if the hon. Member would have the goodness to repeat his Motion on some future day, he had no doubt he could lay the correspondence on the Table by command.
 Sir R. Inglis  thought the House should not interfere, except in a case of the greatest emergency.
 Sir R. Peel  put it to the House whether, considering the very long continuance of the debate, it would not be most convenient for all parties—and to his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge, whether he would not secure a greater amount of attention for his Amendment and his speech—were he to introduce the proposition in Committee upon the Bill. If the discussion to come on upon his hon. and learned Friend's Motion could be postponed to another day, he could not help thinking that such a course would be one in conformity with the general wishes of the House. The debate might be advantageously taken upon another and more advanced stage of the Bill.
 Sir Robert Peel  did not intend to lessen the responsibility at present weighing upon banks of paying their notes in gold coin. Every bank must provide itself with gold sufficient to meet the demand of holders of its notes; and although, as regarded the specie to be held equivalent to their issues, the option of holding gold or silver was given, that did not at all diminish the re-
 1354 l., l., 1355 l.
 Sir R. Peel : Yes.
 Sir R. Peel : I intend to publish the same returns in the case of the Scotch banks as are now required in the case of the English banks—the return of the issues taken on the average returns of the four weeks, and I shall require also the publication of the names of all the parties, and of all who are subject to any liability on account of the bank. In short, I shall require from the Scotch banks the same returns as I do now from the English banks.
 Sir R. Peel  was not now entering into any contract with any Scotch bank. He was under no engagement with them, and he reserved to himself the power hereafter of requiring any returns he might think necessary.
 Sir R. Peel  observed, that the hon. Gentleman had most accurately described the principles he (Sir R. Peel) had laid down as those on which the Bill proceeded. In the case of England, they permitted the Bank of England to issue a certain amount of paper, viz., 8,000,000 l., s. l. l.,
 Sir R. Peel  was induced to think it might be a great improvement, considering the ample supply of silver coin in Ireland, to discontinue the issue of the notes to which the hon. Member had alluded; but he would not undertake to prohibit their issue, if it should appear that there was any great or general opinion in favour of their continued circulation. All his experience in such matters was favourable to making concessions to feelings, and even to prejudices, so far as it could be done consistently; and upon this point, therefore, though he thought it would be an improvement not to have these fractional notes in circulation, he was anxious to have an opportunity of
 1347
 Sir R. Peel  said: Mr. Greene, I am about, Sir, to interpose between the stages of a discussion which has now continued for several nights, and which has excited the greatest interest—the consideration, or rather to-night the proposal, of a measure which can borrow no interest whatever from any connexion with any of those circumstances which have lent so much interest to the other debate, and which must be decided, at least can be only properly decided, by the weight of authority, by reason and by argument, and which requires on the part of this House a calm and dispassionate consideration. On one account, and on that only, I regret this interposition. The attention which I have been compelled to pay to the other debate, which has continued for so many nights, and the extreme pressure of other business,
 1322 l. l. l. 1323 1324 l.; l.; l.; l. 1325 1326 1327 1328 l. l. 1329 l. 1330 1331 1332 l.? l. l. l. l. 1333 l. 1334 l. l. l. l. 1335 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1336 1337 1338 l.; 1339 l.; l., l., 1340 l., l.; l. l.; l. l., l. l. l. l., 1341 l. l. l., l. l. l.; l.; l. l. l.; l.; l., l.; l.; 1342 l.; l.; l. l. l., l., l., l. l. 1343 l., l., l.; l., l. l.; l. 1344 l., 1345 l. l. 1346 Resolved. "2. That the Chairman be directed to move the House, that leave be given to bring in a Bill to regulate the Issue of Bank Notes in Ireland, and to regulate the repayment of certain sums advanced by the Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland for the Public Service."
 Lord J. Russell  said, that in the former Treaty entered into by the present Government with Portugal, a Treaty of Trade and Navigation had been entered into, giving protection to the lives and property of British subjects. He wished to know if, in the Treaty with Brazil, the Government had acted in a similar way?
 Mr. Vernon Smith  had looked to find the hon. and learned Gentleman give an answer to the question of where the money to support the College was to come from, if his proposition was adopted; but the only source in which the hon. and learned Gentleman seemed to trust was the voluntary contributions of the Roman Catholics, who had declined for fifty years to support the College in that way, though the hon. and learned Gentleman now said they would be glad to do so. With respect to what the hon. and learned Gentleman had said of the interest of the College in the permanent grant the House was about to make, that it would be saleable, he had
 1379 1380 1381 l. R. Peel: 1382
 Lord Norreys : I cannot shut my eyes to the fact, that there is a very strong feeling out of doors against this measure; nor am I surprised that such should be the case. The Oxford Tractarians have of late created a very great sensation throughout the country, and rendered the minds of the Protestant population of the country peculiarly sensitive as to Roman Catholic doctrines. But I do not think the present question has been properly understood; and certain it is, that great exaggerations and gross misrepresentations have prevailed. The people of this country have in many instances been led to believe that this is a new and a novel grant, proposed now, for the first time, to Parliament; whereas it has existed for fifty years. They have in other instances been led to imagine, that the extension of the grant involves the extension of the Roman Catholic faith; whereas any one who knows anything of Ireland must know that, whether you leave the grant as it is, whether you extend it or withdraw it altogether, the Roman Catholic religion has been, and will continue to be, the religion of the majority of the people. The people have been told, that to vote in favour of the grant is to act contrary to religion. Now, I should be content to rest the defence of my vote on religious grounds alone. The question appears to me to be, not between the Protestant and Roman Catholic faith—not whether you will propagate the Protestant or Roman Catholic faith—but whether the Roman Catholic religion, being the religion of the great majority of the people, you will have that religion taught by an ignorant or well-educated priesthood; and though I differ from the tenets of the Church of Rome, I prefer the Roman Catholic religion to no religion at all. The people of this country have been told that the Income Tax has been kept on for the purpose of paying
 1383 1384
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  rose to express to the House the feelings which he knew to prevail pretty extensively among his fellow countrymen and co-religionists on this subject—a feeling of cordial gratitude, which was not confined indeed to the Government, but which was extended to them, for the manner in which they had brought this measure forward, as well as for the measure itself. He thought it was an honest confession which the leading Members of the House had made. They perceived that their Government policy to Ireland had been founded in error, and in the most candid manner they
 1415 1416 1417
 Mr. Collett  was understood to say that he was desirous to address a very few words to the House on the subject then before them. The Maynooth question had already presented itself in so many different aspects, that, to a young Member like himself, any farther discussion on it was attended with most formidable difficulties. After the principle of the Bill, however, had been approved of by the majority on the second reading, there could be very little difficulty in deciding on the course to be taken with regard to the Motion of the hon. and learned Recorder the Member for the University of Cambridge. The Amendment of the hon. Member for Sheffield was a very intelligible one. It might have been expressed in the simple words—" Who was to pay the piper?" Was the amount to be
 1428 par excellence l. l. 1429
 Mr. Law  rose to offer to the attention of the House the Motion of which he had given notice—to move as an Amendment—"That the Report be taken into further consideration on this day six months." His object was, if possible, to negative the proposition of the Government, that the charges, expenses, and burdens of the measure, affecting the question of Maynooth College, should be derived from the Consolidated Fund—and that the permanent State Endowment of that institution should be drawn from the taxes of this country. Repudiating both these propositions, he threw himself upon the indulgence of the House to be permitted to state such reasons as be was enabled to address to them, why the consideration of this Resolution ought to be indefinitely postponed. It was desirable that the attention of the House should be recalled to the principles involved in the leading provisions of this Bill. Those principles were twofold: first, it was assumed to be desirable to make a permanent provision for the education of the Roman Catholic priesthood, and that the source from which that should be derived should be according to the measure of 1795—that is, from the subscriptions and donations of those who wished to continue it; and, secondly, it was suggested that the taxes of this country should be devoted to defraying the permanent charge of this establishment. That was the great feature of this measure—the permanent establishment of a College for the education of the Catholic priesthood at the expense of the State. The concluding prayer of all the petitions which lay on the Table was against this alliance of the State with the Roman Catholic religion, and the permanent endowment of Maynooth out of the taxes of Great Britain. He could not help remarking that both on the first and second reading of the Bill a large proportion—he might say a majority—of the right hon. Baronet's (Sir R. Peel's) own party had deserted him, and he was only enabled to proceed by acquiring the support and resting on the aid of those who were generally opposed to him. The right hon. Baronet had not accompanied the introduction of this measure with any explanation of his ulterior views and intentions with regard to academical education. On that subject they were left totally in the dark. They knew not how many colleges were to be established, what was the nature of the acadedemical education to be given, or what was
 1375 1376 1377 1378
 Mr. Fox Maule  said, that after the patient hearing which had been granted to him on a former occasion, he regretted now to trouble the House. He thought it, however, right to notice some allusions which had been made to him, and his conduct out of the House, with respect to this measure. The hon. Member for Sheffield had gone somewhat out of his way to attack him for having attended a public meeting; and had endeavoured to make him responsible for language there held. Now, he did not conceive that a person present, or even presiding, at a public meeting, was to be held responsible for all that fell from speakers there, in the heat of argument and debate. Moreover, he thought that some allowance should be made for language used at these meetings; because it was the only opportunity and occasion for giving vent to those feelings; and moreover it was somewhat excusable, inasmuch as the fear of an answer was not always before their eyes. Again, with
 1405 1406 l. 1407
 Lord Dalmeny : As I have not yet taken any part in the debate, nor in any way expressed any public opinion on this measure, as I supported the Motion of the hon. Member for Sheffield, and now intend to vote for the measure of the rght hon. Gentleman, I wish to say a few wrds to explain this apparent inconsistency. I highly approve of the spirit and tendency of this Bill. I consider that it is enlightened in principle, and that it will be beneficial in practice. I consider that its rejection would be fatal to the peace of Ire-
 1385 1386 1387 1388 1389
 Mr. Pringle : As it is very rarely that I intrude myself on the attention of the House, perhaps I may be allowed to bespeak their indulgence at this time. It was neither my wish nor my intention to have taken part in these discussions, nor would I have done so now, if special reference had not been made to me by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Perth. The right hon. Gentleman has quoted certain words said to have been spoken by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, at an interview at which I was present; and my recollection has been appealed to as to the accuracy of the quotation. Sir, I perfectly well remember the interview alluded to; but after the lapse of so many years it is very difficult to speak to precise words, and I should be sorry to do so with confidence; but as to the substance of what was then said, the report appears to me to be a very fair report so far as I recollect. Now, I have no doubt that these were the genuine sentiments of my right hon. Friend at the time he uttered them; and I have no less doubt that he still continues sincerely to entertain them. I moreover believe, that if my right hon. Friend had thought that this measure would have a tendency to shake or weaken the Protestant interests in this country, and to exalt those of the Roman Catholics, and bring them into immediate and direct collision with each other, he would never have introduced it. And it is just because I myself believe that it will have this effect that I have differed—and I need not add that I have done so with the greatest pain—from my right hon. Friend. There never was a statesman in this, or in any other country, to whom I have looked up with greater respect and esteem. I have admired the comprehensive wisdom of his policy, and was proud to be connected with his Administration. On all ordinary measures of Government I willingly gave him my confidence; and if, at any time, from imperfect information I
 1412 1413 1414
 Mr. Hawes  had intended to propose that this grant should be annual as well as that of the 9,000 l.; 1393 1394
 Mr. Hindley  respected the sincerity more than the arguments of his hon. Friend (Mr. Hawes). He was sure the opinions advanced by his hon. Friend would give great pain to his constituents, who entertained very different views. The objection of his hon. Friend to an annual vote of this grant, amounted to nothing but the old argument against annual Parliaments. His objection to popular discussion, considering his liberal views, was most extraordinary. Now he so far differed from his hon. Friend, that he acknowledged that if this vote was made an annual one, many of the objections which Dissenters had to it would be removed. But now the vote was fixed at 26,000 l. l. 1395 l. 1396 "'Three colonels in three distant counties born, "'Lincoln, Armagh, and Sligo do adorn; "'The first in face surpassed, the next in jollity, "'The third was famed for his sobriety. "'The force of nature could no further go "'To beard the first, she shaved the other two.'" l. l. l. 1397 l. l. l. l. l.; l. l. l. l. d. s., 1398
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that that was not an answer to the question of his noble Friend. The question was, whether the separate Treaty would be signed before the other had expired on the 18th of November?
 Mr. Tancred  moved the Amendment of which he had given notice, as follows: to add to the end of the Resolution the words:—
 "Until provision shall be made for the same, by any Act to be passed in this or any subsequent Session of Parliament, either out of any surplus in the hands of the Ecclesiastical Com-
 1432
 Mr. Warburton  could not believe that the people of this country were so insensate as not to have their opinion changed by the Returns which had been made to that House with respect to the Slave Trade, From those Returns it appeared that the number of slaves which the British cruisers had arrested in their progress from Africa to the Spanish Colonics or the Brazils, did not amount to more than 3 per cent. of the whole number carried from Africa to the opposite coasts of the Atlantic. When the British public looked at those Reports, they could not but see that the measures which had been taken by the Government for the suppression of the Slave Trade were totally inefficient.
 Mr. Bright  had a letter in his hand which he had received that moment, an extract from which he would read to the House. This letter was directed to a firm in the city, and it stated that a gentleman, named Harvey, who died on the 10th of February, left a will, under which a person named Castell, was appointed to act as executor. At the time of this gentleman's death he was loading a vessel, and had put into it about 1,500 l. l., l.
 Mr. John Round  said, nothing could be more unsatisfactory than the present condition of the College of Maynooth, and he thought it highly desirable that something should be done for the elevation of the character of that institution. He regarded the present measure as one purely of civil polity, and as such he should give it his cordial support. He was convinced that if this measure did not pass, an irresistible impulse would be given to Repeal; whereas the concession of the measure would induce a grateful return from the Irish people. He was not weak or foolish enough to expect a grateful return from the arch-agitator, but he had a faithful reliance on the representations made of the Roman Catholic body by the right hon. Member for Dungarvon, the hon. Member for Roscommon, and a noble Lord, the representative of a noble race, who spoke the sentiments of the Roman Catholic aristocracy. He (Mr. Round) believed the measure would have a beneficial result, and therefore he should give it, not a weak, or hesitating, but an honest and sincere, a hearty and cordial, support.
 Mr. Brotherton  would wish to do justice to Ireland, without doing injustice to the Dissenters of England. The Irish Roman Catholics stood in a different relation to the Established Church than the Dissenters. He did not think the Dissenters had a fair claim to any church property. But with regard to the Roman Catholics of Ireland it must be recollected that they constituted seven-eighths of the population, and that they had been despoiled of their ecclesiastical revenues, and were compelled to support a Church from which they could derive no benefit. Although he approved of the object of the Bill, he wished that the end should be accomplished by proper means. He had voted for the Appropriation Clause, and for every measure calculated to ameliorate the state of the Irish people. They had an Established Church in Ireland, which did not answer the end for which it was established; and Government had the means in their own power for doing all
 1399 l. l.
 Mr. Brotherton  had received several representations from the place which he represented, on the subject of the oppressions to which the merchants were subjected in Brazil, and great alarm and apprehension were entertained as to the security of their property and interest in Brazil. He was glad that Her Majesty's Government paid attention to the subject, and he trusted that something would be done to remedy the evil.
 Mr. Hume  thought those evils had resulted from the Government of this country interfering in the internal regulations of other countries. He felt satisfied that the Government would act wisely by rescinding its Acts in reference to Brazil, and in leaving every country to carry on its institutions as it deemed fit. If any other country attempted to dictate to this what
 1372
 Mr. Borthwick  had not intended to address the House on this subject, but that the hon. Member had changed his Motion from a Motion as to the place from which the money was to come, into a Motion which brought again before the House the whole principle of the Bill. The present discussion might, in fact, be said to be a discussion upon the entire principle of the Bill. He had not been so fortunate as to obtain an opportunity of addressing the House, otherwise he would have stated his reasons which induced him to support the Bill. In supporting this measure he was aware that he was about to vote against that large, sincere, and patriotic excitement which had loaded the Table of that House with so many petitions from all parts of the country, and against those for whom he entertained the greatest deference and the most profound respect, and to whom he could, under any future circumstances, only refer with the deepest personal gratitude. He could have no object of a personal character
 1400 1401 "Just as some blockhead rubs his thoughtless skull, And thanks his stars he was not born a fool." 1402 "Certainly, gentlemen, it ought to be the happiness and glory of a Representative to live in the strictest union, the closest correspondence, and the most unreserved communication with his constituents. Their wishes ought to have great weight with him; their opinions, high respect; their business, unremitted attention. It is his duty to sacrifice his repose, his pleasures, his satisfactions to theirs; and above all, ever and in all cases to prefer their interests to his own. But his unbiassed opinion, his mature judgment, his enlightened conscience, he ought not to sacrifice to you, to any man, or to any set of men living. These he does not derive from your pleasure; no, nor from the laws and the Constitution. They are a trust from Providence, for the abuse of which he is deeply answerable. Your Representative owes you not his industry only, but his judgment, and he betrays, instead of serving you, if he sacrifices it to your opinion." 1403 1404
 Mr. Sheil  thought such a desultory conversation tended to no certain purpose. He was of opinion, therefore, that a Resolution should be moved expressive of the opinion of the House with regard to the impolitic course pursued by the Government in its negotiations with Brazil; and, if no other hon. Member would propose such, he (Mr. Sheil) should take an early opportunity of doing so.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said that, having opposed the Bill from its introduction up to the present moment, no apology was required from him for his vote on the present occasion. The right hon. Baronet had stated, that of course all those who voted against the second reading, would support the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman the Recorder of the city of London; but, if he recollected rightly, the right hon. Gentleman stated the other evening, that every one of those Gentlemen who voted for the hon. Member for Sheffield, must, of necessity, vote for the Motion of the hon. Member for Cambridge. [An hon.  Member: 1427
 Mr. M. Gibson  had had many communications upon the subject just referred to by the right hon. Baronet, in consequence of which he had placed a Motion upon the Paper, to the effect that he would move for copies of Correspondence that had passed between the Authorities at Rio de Janeiro and the Government of this country on this question; but if there was any objection to the production of the Correspondence, he would not press his Motion. However, this he would say, that great alarm had been felt as to the position of our commercial relations with Brazil; and it was felt that the great difficulty of their recent relations had been owing to the unfortunate policy of this country towards Brazil upon the Brazilian sugar question. In fact, until the Government should retrace their steps on that question, nothing else that they could do would have the effect of reassuring the British subjects in that country that they were placed in the full enjoyment of those privileges which they had a right to enjoy. However, as he had stated, he would not press for the Correspondence if there was any objection to it.
 Mr. Grimsditch  had a question of some importance to put to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government. It appeared that some time before our late Treaty with Brazil had expired, the Government of that country published a regulation, making the property of British subjects who should die in that country (intestate as we understood) revertible to the Crown. That regulation had caused great alarm at the time of its promulgation, which alarm had been much increased by a recent act of the Brazilian authorities. It appeared by accounts which he had received, that on the 21st of January last, the Judge of Orphans and Absentees went to the house of Astleys and Co., highly respectable merchants, and demanded the goods of Mr. Cairnes, deceased, one of the partners. Messrs. Astleys refused to give them up, and the following day the Judge came again, accompanied by an armed force, and demanded possession. He believed that no official account of the transaction had been received by the Government; but the statement he had made was quite true, and the circumstances related had created the greatest uneasiness among the merchants connected with Brazil. The question he wished to ask was, whether our Government had taken any steps to prevent the recurrence of such scenes; and whether the packet which was to sail on
 1371
 Mr. Wakley  asked the right hon. the Secretary for the Home Department if he would consent to a Motion for Copies of the Correspondence which had passed between the Committee of the National Association of General Practitioners and the Council of the Royal College of Surgeons?
 Sir Charles Douglas  congratulated the noble Lord (Dalmeny) on the general tone of his speech, as being in accordance with the example which had prevailed through these debates, and which he would endeavour to follow. He wished, however, that the noble Lord had not, even in a hypothetical manner, indirectly shown any party feeling. The Bill under discussion had been described as having no principle, and being a mere pitiful expedient. He thought that its principle was the same on which the Legislature had acted for fifty years, and that the expediency of the measure was an honest endeavour to render that principle more efficacious. It was said that the gentlemen in office had climbed into power on the back of this very subject, and that the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) had turned round on those principles against those who formerly gave him their support. On this question, he (Sir C. Douglas) had given a consistent vote during eight Sessions. On both sides of the House, he had voted on this question with those now at the head of affairs; and he denied the charge of inconsistency. The present Government succeeded to office in consequence of their predecessors having lost the confidence of the country, on every question of foreign and domestic policy. The late Government obtained office in 1835, by asserting a principle; and to keep office, in 1838 they abandoned that same principle. He would contradict the assertion, that on the question before the House the Government had deceived any one. He did not feel that he was acting contrary to the principle involved in every vote he had given for any grant to Maynooth. One of the leaders of the opposition to this Bill, whose opinion was always conscientious, the hon. Member for Kent (Mr. Plumptre) said on
 1390 "He rose to prevent any mistake as to his motives for proposing and supporting the grant. He did not do so because one half of the money had been voted before he came into office, for he had voted for the grant to Maynooth for thirty years, in office and out of office, without feeling any violation of religious scruples." 1391 "That it was a most Conservative one; without paying the Roman Catholic Church, he knew that it was impossible to maintain the Established Church in Ireland for any lengthened period; and being most anxious to see its removal, which the present measure would postpone, he would give it his strenuous opposition." 1392
 Sir J. Graham  said, that in a day or two he would lay on the Table of the House the Correspondence to which the hon. Member referred.
 Sir R. Inglis  trusted that Her Majesty's Ministers would not follow the advice of
 1373
 Sir R. Peel  said that representations had been made in 1843, and our Minister had remonstrated on the subject. It was but justice, however, to the Brazilian Government to state that they had issued a command to the governors of provinces to the effect that, although the Treaty had expired, foreigners should enjoy all security in person and property, and have every facility in the prosecution of these industrial pursuits.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that attempts had been made to complete the Treaty in a similar way, and he had every reason to believe that, by that time, the signatures of the Plenipotentiaries had been affixed to the Treaties.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that official information had been received by Her Majesty's Government, and had been handed to the Queen's Advocate to report upon; that Report had been received, and the hon. Member might rely upon it that on the first opportunity our Minister would be instructed to remonstrate with the Brazilian Authorities on the subject.
 Sir R. Peel  did not anticipate any difficulties in the way of signing the Treaties.
 Sir R. Peel  said: Sir, as I have already had the opportunity on three several occasions of stating fully to the House the motives that have influenced Her Majesty's Government in introducing this measure, and their general views respecting it, and of answering questions put to me in the course of the debate as to their ulterior objects, I shall think it unnecessary on this, the fourth occasion, to trouble the House with many observations. Sir, I consider the present Motion to be precisely the same as that which we discussed upon the second reading of the Bill. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge distinctly avows that his object is to defeat the measure. The issue, therefore, on the present occasion is precisely the same as that for which we contended on the second reading of the Bill, and those who voted for the second reading of the Bill will, I think feel themselves under an equal obligation to vole now against the proposition of the hon. and learned Gentleman. The hon. and learned Gentleman's proposal was supported by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Ashton-under-Lyne. That
 1418 l., l. l. 1419 1420 1421 1422 1423 "I think it would be more prudent for the hon. Gentleman opposite to follow the advice of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Tamworth, who has done himself so much honour by the course he has dared to take on this question, and for which he will doubtless gain credit out of doors." 1424 1425 l. 1426
 Mr. F. Maule  said, that the hon. Member for Finsbury alluded to the fact that the Bill introduced by him into the House had not prospered in the hands of Scottish Members who had formerly taken it up. The reason of that was simply the many difficulties which lay in the way of such a measure.
 Lord John Russell  would take that opportunity of asking a question of
 1440
 Mr. Rutherfurd  considered that there ought to be no arrest of wages, except in execution. He coincided in the propriety of preventing the extension of the truck system.
 The Lord Advocate  was understood to say that difficulties existed on this subject which did not at first appear. He did not think it altogether safe to follow out the sweeping course which the Bill proposed. He approved, however, of the course now taken by the hon. Gentleman, and could a measure on which all parties could agree be devised, he was not prepared to say that he would withhold any assistance which it was in his power to give to the hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Duncombe , in reply, suggested that the Lord Advocate ought to undertake the conduct of such a measure as this.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that he had hoped to have been allowed to pass this Bill that night through another stage. It was his wish to place the working classes in Scotland on precisely the same footing as were those in England and Ireland, by
 1443 1444 de novo
 Mr. Watson , after the observations of the right hon. Baronet, would not press the second reading of the Bill on the present occasion. He hoped that it was distinctly understood that he would avail himself of the first opportunity afforded him, after the recess, to move the second reading of the Bill, unless an equivalent measure were brought forward by the Government. But he saw so much inconvenience arising from the large nature of the inquiry by the Commission, who are to inquire into the penal laws which affected all classes of religionists throughout the country, that he could not help believing that the Government would find great difficulties lying in its way. The principle which he wanted to establish was that all penal laws, affecting persons as regarded their religion, should be blotted out of the Statute book, to which they had so long been a disgrace.
 Mr. Watson  was extremely anxious to have his Bill read a third time and passed before the close of the present Session. The Bill which he now sought to carry had passed a Committee of the House of Lords last Session, and was altered on the Motion for its re-commitment in that House. He had no doubt that the matter involved in the Bill had been referred to persons with whom he was very well acquainted, and who, he knew, were perfectly competent to judge of the subject; and he must say, that if he had the assurance of the right hon. Baronet that his Bill should not receive any obstruction further than merely making it conformable to any Report which might be made by the Commission alluded to, he should not press it at that moment. Unless he had that assurance he must insist on going on upon the present occasion. All that he then wanted was, that the second reading of the Bill should take place, and that the discussion upon it should take place in its after stages. He was as anxious as any person that no impediment should be offered to the full consideration which he was sure those excellent persons who had been placed upon the Commission would give to the subjects before them. But, unless the assurance to which he had already alluded were given him, he wished to be allowed to take one step with the Bill, and would then wait until the Government were in possession of the Report for which they were looking.
 Sir James Graham  said, that nothing was farther from the wish of the Government than to obstruct the progress of the Bill, or prevent the fair discussion of it. To show that the very contrary was their desire, the first instruction given to the Commission was to give attention to this very subject. The Bill of the hon. and learned Gentleman was confined to England. The operations of the Government Commission were of a much wider extent. The instructions given to the Commission were to inquire not only into the penal laws affecting Catholics and Dissenters in England, but also in Scotland and Ireland; and questions had been already referred
 1442
 Sir James Graham  said, that he observed that the first Order of the Day was the second reading of the Bill introduced by the hon. and learned Member for Kinsale (Mr. Watson). He (Sir James Graham) was anxious that the hon. and learned Gentleman would not press the second reading that day, and that he would consent to defer it until after the holidays. He had stated to the hon. and learned Gentleman that a Commission had been appointed, which had under consideration many points included in that Bill. As yet the Commission had not reported; but Her Majesty's Ministers expected the Report at an early day. When they had the advantage of that Report before them, it might then become the duty of the Government to propose some measure on the subject. Under these circumstances, he felt justified in asking the
 1441
 Sir J. Graham  observed that the question was one of extreme difficulty. They should take care that they did not abolish the power of arresting wages, unless they took further precautions against the spread of the truck system. He could not, of course, anticipate what measure would be introduced; but he was quite sure the Government would give all the assistance in their power to the promotion of the object the hon. Member had in view.
 Sir R. Peel  thought the best course which could be adopted under the circumstances, would be to fix the third reading of the Maynooth Bill for Monday the 19th of May, so as to give the noble Lord the Monday following, the 26th.
 Mr. Edward Ellice , jun., observed, that it was notorious that a sheriff of a county might be a landed proprietor in the county, and, having an interest in the question of compensation on a trust, might be called upon to judge in his own case. Not only might compensation be thus granted to road trustees, but a profit might be made out of the roads. This clause, he conceived, had been jobbed into the Bill, and it was a clause which should meet with the strenuous opposition of the House. It was one of the most material parts of the Bill. It was a Government Bill, and the Government should be responsible for so material a portion of it. He could not assent to another Bill being brought in as supplemental to this. He could not trust to such a Bill. He had no security how a supplemental Bill, repealing the clause in question, might be dealt with in another place. The only course left for them was to oppose the present Bill altogether, and trust to an entirely new one being brought in.
 Mr. Rutherford  rose to move for leave to introduce a Bill to regulate admission to the lay or secular chairs of the Universities of Scotland. The hon. Member said, that although his Motion was very similar to one which had been rejected last year, he hoped that Her Majesty's Ministers would, on account of circumstances which did not then exist, but which had since occurred, allow him to introduce the Bill. The two Acts of the Scottish Parliament regulating the admission to the chairs of the Universities were passed in 1609 and 1707 respectively. The one enacted that all the office-bearers of the Scotch Universities should sign the Confession of Faith; the other required subscription to the Oath of Allegiance as well as the Confession of Faith of 1609. Now, in no one of the Scotch Universities had these Acts been enforced in terms as to all the office-bearers. In the University of Edinburgh they had been entirely in abeyance and disuse. He proposed in the Bill he had framed to provide, that hereafter it should not be necessary for any teacher or professor in any lay or secular chair in any Scotch University to make the declarations required by those Acts of Parliament. He proposed to leave untouched all chairs which were connected with the teaching of the candidates for orders, or with the theological faculty. The chairs from the admission to which he desired to remove the existing restrictions, were those connected with literature and science. The theological chairs he did not seek to interfere with at all. To a large portion of his countrymen, particularly those who, in consequence of the late differences in the Church of Scotland, were now placed in the position of dissenters from that Church, those restrictions would be felt as a great grievance and an insult. The opinions of the professors of the Universities themselves, too, were generally opposed to the continuance of the restrictions. The  Senatus Academicus 12 l., l. 13 14 15 16
 Mr. Acland  would be glad if Government would consent to the first reading of the Bill, and thus give time to hon. Members to consider the whole scope and tendency of the Act. He would not reply to the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Rutherfurd) further than to say that he could not find words strong enough to express the intensity of his difference from the hon and learned Gentleman, with respect to his declaration, that in 1845 no bearded man could maintain the opinion
 18
 The Earl of Lincoln  said: I rise for the purpose of moving for leave to bring in a Bill to facilitate the Enclosure of Commons and Waste Lands in England and Wales. The House will observe, that in consequence of a general expectation that the debate which has just concluded would occupy the whole evening, several Members who take an interest in the question of enclosures are absent; and I shall therefore not feel it necessary to trouble the House at as great length as the importance of the subject might under other circumstances require. For the same reason I am by no means so well prepared, as I otherwise might have been, to bring this subject under the notice and consideration of the House; as I have not with me those papers which would enable me to develop the details of the subject as fully as I could have wished. It therefore becomes necessary that I should limit myself to the briefest possible statement which will enable hon. Members to understand the nature of the measure which I am asking permission to introduce. It will not be for-  24 25 26 27 seriatim. 28 29 30
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, that there was no exception contemplated to be made in respect of common lands, of whatever description they might be throughout the country. At the same time he would observe, that great facilities would be afforded in dealing with lands of the description referred to by the hon. Member, as they would all be placed in the third class of lands embraced within the provisions of the Bill, and any measure affecting them could not consequently pass the Legislature without receiving far more ample consideration than it would have obtained had the lands in question been touched by any private legislation.
 The Earl of Lincoln , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to facilitate the drainage of lands in England and Wales, said that he was reminded by the observations of the hon. and learned Member for Cockermouth of an omission of which he had been involuntarily guilty, which was the neglect of paying that high compliment which was so fairly due to the noble Lord who had brought the measure respecting enclosures before the House during the last Session. That noble Lord's only anxiety was to have a good and serviceable measure carried into effect. He had in the most generous manner avowed such to be his sole desire, and he had disclaimed all party or political views in dealing with the subject. The noble Lord (Lord Worsley) had accordingly handed his measure over to the care of the Government, without the slightest expression of jealousy; and he (the Earl of Lincoln) must candidly acknowledge that he felt the principal credit which might be awarded to the measure under consideration was fairly due to the noble Lord. With respect to the particular Bill which he had now to request permission to introduce, he should merely feel it necessary to observe that it was a consequent measure upon the Enclosure Act, and that the Government having determined upon introducing the first, was no less bound to follow it up by proposing a measure for the purpose of more effectually draining waste and unenclosed lands. The Bill was confined to the object of ena bing parties desirous of draining their own lands to carry their drains through othe lands adjacent to their own, upon compensating the proprietors for the damage thereby done. The Bill also would give facilities for the acquisition of plots of land necessary for the erection of steam-engines for the purposes of draining. The present Bill, he was ready to admit, was limited in these objects. In the course of a Session or two he hoped to be able to introduce a more extensive scheme of legislation in this respect, and in the meantime he trusted some good would be effected by the Bill which he then begged permission to introduce.
 Mr. F. Maule  felt satisfied that the conduct which Her Majesty's Government were pursuing upon this occasion would have the effect of healing many of the differences which unhappily prevailed in Scotland on the subject of the proposed Bill, and to allay much of the strong feeling which had been excited with reference to it. He regarded the conduct of the Government as the forerunner of great good to his native country. He confessed he should contemplate with great alarm the establishment in Scotland of a college of such a nature as that, coupled with the circumstances of the times, which might cause the education of youth to assume a sectarian character. He wished further to say, that the conduct of the Government was not only satisfactory in the view of its having a tendency to heal the wounded feelings which existed, but he also considered their conduct judicious as regarded
 23
 Mr. Pringle  thought that the whole of
 9
 Mr. Rutherfurd  said he agreed with his right hon. Friend, who had brought this clause under the notice of the House, that it was one involving most important principles. He acquitted his hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate of any intentional irregularity in its introduction,
 5
 Mr. Hawes  thought the Resolutions would involve a difficulty, and that the better mode was the plan suggested by his hon. Friend.
 Mr. Cumming Bruce  begged leave to observe that the objection to the clause seemed to be taken mainly upon the ground that the sheriffs, who were appointed to decide in the matter, might be interested as landed proprietors in the county. There was he believed, but one county, that of Inverness, in which the sheriff was so interested; and in that county no person was responsible for the tolls of the roads. Since the passing of the clause in question, he had received letters from the county which he represented, from parties interested in the promotion of railway projects, and all expressing their satisfaction that such a clause had received the sanction of the House. He would give his cordial assent to the clause.
 The Lord Advocate  said, that the clause in question was proposed in the Committee on the Bill; and he saw no objection to it, as well because no objection was then made to it, as because, as he observed at the time, and which the right hon. Gentleman now confirmed, similar clauses had been introduced into some Scotch Railway Bills. In this case no sum was specified for compensation, nor were the parties declared to have a claim to compensation. They were enabled to apply to the sheriff; and if he conceived that they had a good case, he was empowered to award compensation; if otherwise, to refuse it. As to sheriffs possessing land in counties for which they were sheriffs, he knew that was decidedly opposed to the principle generally laid down and acted upon. The principle was, that they should possess no local interest in the county for which they were sheriffs. That being the case, he considered the sheriff the best arbitrator that could be selected for such questions, he being a lawyer, an independent and impartial person, and having no interest for or against any projected railroad. Under these circumstances, he saw no objection to the clause.
 The Lord Advocate  observed, that the clause in question had been objected to on various grounds. It was objected to on principle, and he was asked to bring in a Bill to repeal or amend it. Another objection to it was grounded upon the manner in which it had been introduced. He had already explained how it had been introduced. The clause was not in the original Bill, and he had introduced it, considering that there was no objection to it on principle, and no objection had been taken to it when it was introduced in Committee. But as it was stated that the clause had been introduced into the Bill in a manner unsatisfactory to the House, and as he was not desirous to have it carried without proper discussion, he certainly did not wish to press it at that moment. He was disposed to take the course which was considered least inconvenient with regard to the progress of the Bill, and which would afford the best opportunity for a fair discussion of the principle involved in the clause, should it be brought before the House in a somewhat modified form. The best course, therefore, he thought, would be to reintroduce the Bill, with all the other Amendments, such as they now were, when the House would have an opportunity of dealing with this clause as, upon due consideration, might appear most desirable.
 The Lord Advocate  moved, that the Amendments made by the Lords in the
 2
 Mr. Aglionby  regretted that no Member of the Government had risen to express the sentiments of the Government upon the clause disputed. If the clause were part of a Private Bill, he could well understand why the Government should take no interest in it. This was one of their own Bills; and when a direct appeal was made to them upon one of its most important clauses, he thought that some Member of the Cabinet would have risen and expressed some opinion concerning it. The plan proposed by some of those who objected to the clause was, that the Bill should be stopped in the ordinary way, and a new Bill introduced, without the obnoxious clause, and to this proposal he would assent. The present Bill recognised an important principle, and he did not see why, if it were adopted as regards Scotland, it should not be made applicable also to both England and Ireland.
 Mr. Aglionby  had always taken a lively interest in the subject of the noble Earl's Bill, and had long entertained a wish that some effectual measure should be introduced for the purpose of bringing waste lands into cultivation. He was very desirous of asking a question which the right hon. Gentleman opposite would probably take some future opportunity of answering—namely, whether it was the intention of Government to introduce any measure for the purpose of assimilating the tenures of lands throughout the country, and of rendering it compulsory on lords of the manor to enfranchise copyholds. The present law only went to the extent of rendering the enfranchisement voluntary; but it was highly desirable that some law should pass, by which copyholds might be compulsorily redeemed upon payment of an equivalent.
 Mr. Home Drummond  wished to explain that the Report of the University Commissioners which he had signed, and which had been referred to as an authority against the proposal of his hon. and learned Friend opposite, had been drawn up nearly twenty years ago. Many changes in laws and politics had since taken place, and circumstances were now materially different. There was then no complaint against the Statute, and no grievance before the Commissioners. No one proposed to repeal it, and that question was not discussed. It was a natural thing to say, "Here is a regulation enforced in some places, and not in others; why should not the practice be uniform." Circumstances were now entirely changed. There was an important new feature in the case. The Universities themselves now asked for an alteration of the law as a measure for their own protection. There was now a grievance to redress, and he hoped his right hon. Friends would not find it so difficult to deal with the question as formerly. The late secession from the Church had occasioned the complaints; but his hon and learned Friend was too able an advocate to rest his case on such narrow grounds. He had argued for the change
 17
 Mr. Home Drummond  observed, that the same state of things did not exist in England as existed in Scotland. The clause in question had reference to trustees personally bound.
 Mr. Labouchere  wished to ask a question of the Lord Advocate, the reply to which might probably shorten the discussion. His question was, would the Lord Advocate engage, on the part of the Government, to introduce a short Bill in the course of the present Session, either to repeal or to amend the clause objected to? If no such engagement were made, he must move that the Bill be taken into further consideration that day six months.
 Mr. Labouchere  fell compelled, on the present occasion, to take a course which was very unusual in that House. It was necessary for him to call the attention of the House to a clause in this Bill which had been sent up to the House of Lords, and not altered or amended by them; and which, consequently, the House of Commons had now no power of remedying or altering. If the course which he was now taking was unusual, it was however justified by the unusual or rather the unprecedented manner in which this clause had passed the House of Commons. It was introduced in a manner which precluded the House from discussing it, or even knowing of its existence. It was not in the Bill as introduced by the Lord Advocate, but was allowed by him to be introduced by the hon. Member for Stirlingshire without any opposition, and without the Lord Advocate undertaking the responsibility of it. The learned Lord had on a former occasion stated, that all the
 3 4
 Mr. J. Parker  objected to additional labour being imposed on committees.
 Mr. Hume  condemned the clause. He thought that what was considered good for Scotland, should be introduced into England. The clause might be made of very extensive application. Were there not canals, as well as turnpikes, to be affected by railroads? He thought that the principle adopted by Her Majesty's Government, in reference to this matter—if any were adopted at all—should be one of general application. The Lord Advocate could not have been aware of the importance of the clause, otherwise he would not have allowed it to pass as it had passed through the House. He would submit that the Government should withdraw the present Bill, and bring in another. With the intent that they should do so, he would move that the Lords' Amendments be taken into consideration that day six months.
 Mr. Christopher  thought that the object of railway legislation was, or should be, to establish a uniform system throughout the whole country. If they introduced a separate system with regard to Scotch railways, the greatest hardship would be inflicted upon all interested in turnpike roads in England. In the north of England the property of some of the trustees of such roads had been reduced by the introduction of railways by some 40 or 50 per cent. If this Bill were to pass, he hoped the Government would extend the same measure of justice to England. If they did not, he should feel called upon to support the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montrose. They could only secure a uniform system of railway legislation by having its provisions extended equally to all parts of the country, unless there were some very special reasons why one part of the kingdom should be placed in a better position than another.
 Mr. Greene  observed, that the attention of the Committee would be directed by the gentleman who drew the breviates where deviations occurred. The Committees could then report to the House.
 Mr. Forbes  said, that, previous to proposing the clause, he had consulted several of his friends from Scotland and also several parliamentary agents, and all agreed that some such clause was indispensable; but as none were prepared to make any definite proposition, he had taken upon himself that duty, and introduced the clause on a principle which, as he considered, had already been established. He put it to the House whether the right hon. Gentleman opposite had not used too strong language in speaking of the mode in which the clause had been introduced?
 Mr. W. Williams  begged to ask the noble Lord whether his Bill contemplated any interference with the lands held by corporate bodies, or those lands termed Lammas and Michaelmas lands.
 Sir G. Clerk  Replied that without making an Order of the House, Mr. Booth, the gentleman who prepared the breviates, might point out the deviations in the Bills as they came before Committees. He would not press the Resolutions.
 Sir G. Clerk  wished to call the attention of the House to a Notice placed upon the Paper by his noble Friend the Member for Monmouth (Lord G. Somerset), regarding the Standing Orders he proposed with respect to those Bills
 10 "That every Committee on a Railway Bill shall, with the Report on the Bill, state whether the provisions of the Companies Clauses Consolidation Bill, the Railway Clauses Consolidation Bill, and the Lands Clauses Consolidation Bill, have been complied with; and if they shall not have been complied with, state in what respects they have not been complied with, and the reasons for such non-compliance. "That the Committee on every Bill, other than a Railway Bill, to which the provisions of the Companies Clauses Consolidation Bill, or the Lands Clauses Consolidation Bill, are applicable, shall report to the House any noncompliance with such provisions, and shall state their reasons for permitting such noncompliance."
 Sir G. Grey  thought it very desirable that the House should have the means of knowing whether these Consolidation Clauses Bills were followed in the different Private Bills; but it would be absolutely impossible for Committees on the Bills, with their other engagements, satisfactorily to discharge this duty. It would be much better that the Gentleman who prepared the breviates of Bills should make a return to the House, on which they might rely, of the cases of non-compliance.
 Sir J. Graham  said: I cannot commence the observations I am about to address to the House, without complimenting the hon. Gentleman on the tone of his speech, and the great ability and fairness with which he stated the question. But there are several omissions which he made, which I think it right to call to the recollection of the House. First of all, I think it is our imperative duty to regard this question distinctly as a Scottish question. There are great distinctions to be made in so considering it. There are the peculiarities of the Scottish law—the peculiarity of the relation of the Scotch Universities and the Church of Scotland, and the discipline of those Universities; and I think the hon. Gentleman most fairly put it to the House, that, bearing in mind those distinctions, we must not confound the question of the Scotch Universities with that of the English Universities. At the same time, I am bound to say that this question cannot be regarded with reference only to the Scotch Universities. There is another party—an important party—a party which, for a long time, was undivided and dominant in Scotland, and which, although recently divided, is still a powerful body, to be regarded with great consideration by the Ministers of the Crown—I mean, the Church of Scotland. Let me call to the attention of the House the peculiarity of the obligation on
 19 20 21 22
 Viscount Ebrington  observed, that in matters of this kind Scotland seemed to be much better represented in the Government than was England. It appeared that Scottish trustees of turnpike roads received at the hands of the Lord Advocate a degree of consideration which was peremptorily refused by the Chancellor of the Exchequer to him (Lord Ebrington) when, some time since, he brought before the House the present plan of exempting mails from the payment of toll. He hoped the English Representatives would bear in mind the manner in which Scottish turnpikes were considered by Government.
 Viscount Howick  said, that the cases of England and Scotland, as he viewed them, were precisely similar. The case of Scotland was this: the country gentlemen of Scotland advanced either their money or gave their personal security for the purpose of effecting improvements upon the roads. In the county with which he was connected, the country gentlemen came forward also to effect such improvement. The western line of road, through Wooler, communicating by Northumberland with Scotland, was defective, and the gentlemen of the county were anxious to improve it. It was greatly improved, the county gentlemen coming forward and lending their own money on the security of the turnpike trusts or tolls to be levied on the improved road from Morpeth through Wooler into Scotland. That money remained unpaid. Two railway projects were now before the House, for the purpose of establishing a railway communication from Newcastle to Berwick, and one or other of these would probably pass. If either of them passed, he doubted very much if the tolls levied upon that line of road, which traversed a very thinly inhabited district, would pay the expense of collection. The parties who had thus lent their money would then entirely lose it; but thinking that the principle was so settled that no compensation in such case should be granted to them, they had not even applied to the House for it. When these same gentlemen travelled into Scotland by railway, having thus lost the money which they had advanced to improve the roads in their own country, they would find that they had to pay for compensation to Scottish landlords, who were precisely in the same situation as they were themselves. Was this a thing to be thought of? Were clauses inflicting such injustice upon parties to be smuggled into a Bill? Would such clauses be permitted to become law? He trusted that they would not, and he thought that the only means of preventing such a result would be, that the House should agree to the Amendment. The noble Lord (Lord Ebrington) had alluded to a subject to which he had some time since called the
 8
 Mr. Redhead Yorke  said, that it was not his Bill; his name had been put upon it as one of the Members of the city of York. The question was a perfectly proper one, and since the subject had been mentioned, he had communicated with others outside, who said that if there was any informality in the Bill, or any clause which should not be there, they would have great pleasure in seeing them removed.
 Lord J. Russell  asked, supposing the House should decide on going into Committee, was it the intention of his hon. Friend (Sir R. Inglis) to take a division on parts of the Bill in Committee, and if so, would he state what those parts were?
 Mr. T.B.C. Smith  said, the hon. Gentleman who moved this Amendment appear-to found it upon evidence given before the Mortmain Committee; but it was right in considering the question that no misapprehension should exist as to what the law was at present. In the Statute of 1808, amending the Maynooth Act, there was not only an enabling clause to take property to the amount of 1,000 l. 118 l. l.
 Viscount Clive  said that it was now perfectly competent to Roman Catholics to leave endowments to any amount for the benefit of Maynooth, if they took the precaution of committing their control to trustees. It was much better, therefore, in his opinion, to give them the power at once, in their corporate capacity, without any such intervention.
 Mr. Stafford O'Brien  proposed that the blank be filled with the words "thirty thousand pounds." Seeing that the great number of petitions against this grant was in opposition to the endowment of any religion whatever, and seeing that the Roman Catholics, from their declarations in former years, might be supposed to favour such a principle, he wished (without charging them with inconsistency in their recent conduct) to place them in such a position that they might be enabled to say, "We have subscribed an amount equal to that Government intended for us — we are now independent of you, and we wish to dissolve the connexion." He understood the hon. Member for Montrose was opposed to this proposal, lest it might increase the irritable feelings that now existed. But he (Mr. O'Brien) was sure that those who opposed this grant, felt no objection whatever to voluntary endowments by the Catholics themselves.
 Mr. James  begged to state a fact which might be gratifying to the hon. Member for Kent, and also to the hon. Baronet the Member for Oxford—namely, that the Catholic Legislature of Belgium granted very handsome sums for the maintenance of the Protestant clergy. This would be a bright example for this country to follow, in compliance with the injunction, "Do unto others as you would that they should do unto you."
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  would be sorry to be guilty of any breach of order. He had interrupted the hon. Gentleman because he had misrepresented ["Order"]—
 The Chairman  called the hon. Gentleman to order, and stated, that if there had been any misrepresentation, it must have been unintentional.
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  said, that he hardly believed himself that it was intentional. The hon. Member for Waterford (Mr. Wyse) stated that certain doctrines were to be found in Protestant writings. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Colquhoun), in replying to him, with that ingenious acuteness which he always manifested, put the issue upon the doctrines taught, or alleged to be taught, at Maynooth, which was not
 135
 Mr. Law  said he would trouble the House with very few words. His object, as he had before stated, was to prevent a State endowment to the College of Maynooth, and he would therefore, simply move that this clause be negatived.
 Mr. Law  said, that after the division which had just taken place, he should not put the House to the trouble of again dividing.
 Mr. F. Maule  said, that he recently had his attention called to a paragraph in a northern newspaper, stating, that in the county of Ross as many as 400 tenants had been served for the ensuing term of May with notice to quit. Each family contained upon an average five individuals; this gave a total of 2,000 persons driven from their houses. The journal in which this statement appeared did not enter into the reasons for this removal, nor should he
 144
 Mr. F. Maule  said, that the objects which he had in view were fully answered by the expression of opinion which his statements had elicited.
 Mr. Smythe  said the position of the advocates of the voluntary principle was absurd. They objected to Roman Catholics spontaneously endowing their own college. [Mr.  Hume; Hume:
 Lord J. Manners  said, he had not the slightest intention of taking part in the present discussion, but he thought the
 119 l l.
 Mr. Hindley  said, he so much assented to the arguments stated by the hon. and learned Gentleman, that he felt it his duty to express a hope that his hon. Friend would not divide the House on the Amendment.
 Mr. Hindley  said, that after this display of the crossfire of Cambridge, he should never trust Cambridge again upon any matter of importance.
 Mr. Hindley  concurred with the right hon. Baronet who spoke last.
 Mr. Hindley , in rising to object to the Speaker leaving the Chair, was discharging an onerous duty, a duty which he undertook individually, without concert with any of the Members of that House. He felt great regret that the Government
 102 "Much has been said about the gratitude we owe for the grant to Maynooth, but I confess that I for one (and I am joined in the sentiment by the priests and people of this
 103
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that no man would be more ready to second the hon. Member's Motion than himself, did he think there was the slightest hope of defeating this detestable measure. He should be the more anxious to second the Motion, could he anticipate that the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Treasury — the professed Protestant — could be brought to accede to it. He almost questioned the fact of that Gentleman being a sincere and true Protestant,
 104 Bis dat qui cito dat, 105 cries of
 Mr. D. R. Pigot  observed, that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Colquhoun) had affirmed that particular doctrines were taught in Maynooth, for that he had referred to the Report of the Commissioners who had examined into the state of Maynooth; now, he (Mr. Pigott) on the other side, maintained that the doctrines referred to—the Ultramontane doctrines—doctrines exalting the supremacy of the Pope, the right of the Pope to temporal power in the dominions of other princes, were not taught in the College of Maynooth. And to prove that statement, he referred to the evidence of three persons—the President, the Vice President, and the Dean of Maynooth—these three persons being the only authorities—the only persons charged with the discipline of the College. The first of these witnesses was Dr. Crotty. The President was asked if the Transalpine doctrine was inculcated in Maynooth; to which his reply was, that it never had been. The Rev. Dr. Montague, the Vice President, was then asked, if he were acquainted with the principles inculcated in Dr. Delahogue's class book? He answered that he was; that Dr. Delahogue had been the professor of moral theology, but Dr. Hearne latterly filled that situation; and not only was he as great a defender of the French or Gallican doctrines—in inculcating the Cisalpine doctrines — that he was even more violent than Dr. Delahogue against the Ultramontane, or the doctrine teaching any political or temporal power being exercised by the Pope. The third person examined was the dean, the Rev. Mr. Dowling. He stated that he was educated at Maynooth; that he attended Dr. Delahogue's lectures; that he knew his book, the
 137 Ecclesia;
 Mr. Shaw  would not place his own objections to the present measure upon any lower ground than the total denial of the right of the Legislature, according to the fixed principles of the British Constitution, to endow, in permanent connexion with the State, a Roman Catholic Establishment in any portion of the United Kingdom. But assuming for a moment the ground taken by the Government and hon. Gentlemen opposite, that a great improvement was to be expected in the College of Maynooth, should the Bill pass, he should like to hear some Irish Members of the Roman Catholic religion give an answer to the question put by his hon. Friend the Member for Kent (Mr. Plumptre), whether it was really a want of funds amongst the Roman Catholics, applicable to Roman Catholic purposes, that rendered the measure proposed by the Government even expedient? He could not believe that it was; for while he contended that the real object of the Irish Act of 1795, was to enable Roman Catholics to endow Maynooth for themselves, which they had not done to any extent worth mentioning, from that time to the present he saw immense sums expended from Ro-
 127 l.
 Mr. Shaw  said, the hon. Gentleman quite misconceived his (Mr. Shaw's) argument, and corroborated it by stating that
 128
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, that before his hon. Friend had given him notice of the question, he had intimated to the hon. Member for Liskeard (Mr. C. Buller), that he (Mr. Hope) had some explanations to give of what had passed last night. He had given the hon. and learned Member notice that he should request him to state the terms of his Motion for Tuesday night. The hon. Member, on coming down to the House, stated that he meant to postpone his Motion; and also, that he had had some communication with the noble Lord under whom he (Mr. Hope) served, upon the subject. Not having had an opportunity of since seeing the noble Lord, he (Mr. Hope) did not then know what had passed between them. The hon. and learned Member having postponed his Motion, and given his reasons for so doing, he (Mr. Hope) had nothing to say as to the terms used; but he had explanations to give which he now proceeded to lay before the House. In the first place, the withdrawal of the notice was unsolicited on the part of the Government, and unwished for by them. They were perfectly prepared to maintain and defend the conduct which they had pursued as regards the New Zealand Company. In the next place, perhaps, on account of the manner in which it had reached the public press, it would appear that the matter was more fully before the Government than was the case. The facts of the case were these: the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies
 99
 Mr. Labouchere  would put a question to the right hon. Gentleman on a subject of great importance to the manufacturing interests of this country. He had not given notice of his question, and if the right hon. Gentleman were not prepared to answer it now, he would perhaps have the kindness to do so on an early future occasion. He had seen it stated in the public prints, that accounts had been received from the Brazils, stating that the Brazilian Government had recommended the Legislature to impose an extra duty of 20 per cent. upon British cottons, so long as it remained the policy of this country to impose an extra duty upon sugar the produce of Brazil, as distinguished from Foreign sugar and sugar the produce of our Colonies. It was also stated in the letter by which this intimation was received, that there was every probability that the Brazilian Legislature would assent to the proposal made on the part of the Government. The question which he would now put to the right hon. Gentleman was, whether or not he had received any official intimation upon this subject, and whether he could confirm or deny the statement which had appeared in the public prints?
 Mr. Labouchere  said, he hoped his hon. Friend would not press the present Motion.
 Mr. Colquhoun  thought that the hon. Member for Waterford occupied a very extraordinary position. The hon. Gentleman came down to the House, as he said, wholly unprepared; [Mr.  Wyse:
 Mr. Colquhoun  would like to call upon the hon. Gentleman for some proof of what he said. The hon. Gentleman stated that he was prepared to prove from Protestant works, that sentiments abounded in these works as objectionable as those to which the hon. Member for Kent (Mr. Plumptre) and others had alluded in the course of the debate. Would the hon. Gentleman consent to cite any one passage to the House and to the country which had any sort of colour or connexion with the sentiments cited by his hon. Friend? All that he (Mr. Colquhoun) could say was, that if the hon. Gentleman could prove that such sentiments were taught in any part or portion of any book used as a class book in any college of England or Scotland, or in any University in either country, he would undertake to come down to that House, and call upon them to institute a most searching inquiry into that institution, its doctrines and discipline, where such sentiments were inculcated. An educational institution teaching such sentiments deserved neither public confidence nor support. It was established beyond doubt that many of the books used at the College of Maynooth inculcated Ultramontane opinions,
 132
 Mr. Colquhoun  hardly understood what the right hon. and learned Gentleman meant, unless it was to confirm what he had already stated. That which the right hon. and learned Gentleman had just read confirmed what he had never disputed. The right hon. and learned Gentleman showed that the authorities at Maynooth said that there were not Ultramontane doctrines taught at Maynooth; but then, by citations from the books used in the College, it would be seen that these doctrines were taught, and there was the discrepancy between the assertion of the authorities and the evidence in the Report. At a future stage of the debate he meant to bring from that Report passages which would prove that Ultramontane doctrines were taught; that they were to be found in the standard works read in the College. That he would prove; and to that proposition he meant to nail the right hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Plumptre  had never quoted a passage from Dens, nor had he ever stated that Dens had written a book which was used at Maynooth. The hon. Member for Waterford, and the hon. Gentleman who last spoke, allowed that the doctrines attributed to the Catholics were
 136
 Mr. Plumptre  said, he must take that opportunity of calling attention to the nature of the education given in Maynooth College. The doctrines there taught were, he contended, antisocial, immoral, and intolerant. He would read to the House some specimens from the class books used in Maynooth. A venial sin, according to Dr. Doyle, in the catechism taught to Roman Catholics in Ireland—
 "Is a sin which does not break charity between man and man, much less between God and man, such as the stealing an apple," &c. "By what kind of sins are the commandments broken? By mortal sins only; for venial sins are not, strictly speaking, contrary to the end of the commandment, which is charity. When is a theft a mortal sin? When the thing stolen is of considerable value, or causeth a considerable hurt to our neighbour. When is a lie a mortal sin? When it is any great dishonour to God, or notable prejudice to our neighbour." "How great must be the quantity of the thing stolen in order to constitute the theft a mortal sin? The quantity cannot easily be determined, since nothing has been decided on this point, either in natural, divine, or human law. Some are of opinion that a quantity necessary for the maintenance of an individual for one day, in a manner suitable to his station in this world, is sufficient to make the theft a mortal sin. Others think that it requires a quantity which, everything considered, inflicts a grievous injury on our neighbour, and deprives him of something particularly useful. A loss, however, which in respect of one, a rich man for instance, is slight, in respect of a poor man maybe considered heavy. It is generally laid down, and you (the priests) may lay it down as determined, that in order that a theft should be a mortal sin, when committed on persons of the first rank, fifty or sixty pence are sufficient." 130 Moral Theology of Oaths,
 Mr. Plumptre  said, that amongst all the measures which had come before Parliament since he had had the honour of a seat in that House, there had been none which, viewed in all its bearings, was so calculated to excite alarm; and though the rejection of it by that House might cause great agitation in Ireland, such a consequence would not be so serious as the effect of passing the measure would be upon England. The right hon. Baronet had applied the word "ferment" to the state of feeling which existed in re-
 106 "I am delighted to be the instrument of another perfectly peaceable exhibition of the determination of the immense majority of the inhabitants of the city and vicinage of Cork to persevere in seeking, by legal and constitutional means, and none other—for none other would we sanction—the restoration of Irish nationality. Everything encourages us to continue our peaceful perseverance in seeking the
 107 scandalous prosecution "The Ministers of the Crown, finding it to be totally useless to attempt to crush the repeal spirit by force, or to extinguish it by legal form, have adopted another and a less blameless course. They show a dermination to conciliate public opinion by minor acts of justice and benevolence. The Maynooth Endowment Bill is a measure of this description—entirely devoid of any obnoxious provisions, and brought forward in a spirit of statesmanlike conciliation. A good measure in itself and entitled to gratitude—but immeasurably short of the substantial justice due from England, and which can never be obtained save by the restoration of our domestic legislature. "Whilst the Irish brooded in sorrow and irritation, but in silent acquiescence, over the grievances which afflicted their country, no relief was afforded—no conciliation suggested by the Government. On the contrary, even in our earlier movements, we were emphatically told that 'concession,' that is to say, 'Justice to Ireland,' had long attained its limits. That assertion is now emphatically retracted; and the loud cry of Irish agitation has penetrated into the interior Cabinet of the Ministry, and (force and fraud having been found useless) is endeavoured to be quelled by acts of benevolence conferred in a conciliatory manner. "Let us then persevere. We have every incitement to persevere. Every concession made by England is a fresh proof of her former injustice. It increases the strength of the Repealers, and diminishes the power and numbers of those who are opposed to Repeal. "In the mean time we are guilty of no deception or delusion. No particular concession can lessen our determination to procure Repeal. We know full well that complete justice to Ireland cannot be otherwise attained, nor any permanent protection from wrong and oppression secured, save under the auspices of an Irish Parliament." 108
 Mr. Roebuck  applauded the generous spirit in which the Amendment had been brought forward; but he thought experience had shown the imprudence of placing property in such a position that it could not be alienated. On what ground was it proposed to depart from the wise policy of the law on this occasion? The noble Lord (Lord J. Manners) had asked why they limited the value of real property to be held by the trustees of Maynooth to 3,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  had no hesitation in saying that he was opposed to unlimited endowment exercised in favour of any sect. If they asked him what he should do if he had the power of remodelling the three kingdoms; he meant, of course, the provision for the religions of the three kingdoms—he should place all on a perfect equality. But in his opinion it showed an absence of all Christian feeling or sympathy for their fellow subjects to oppose the endowment of a few thousands at Maynooth, and to give an unlimited power of endowment as to the Universities in this country. He was in favour of the original proposal, because he feared that raising the endowment to 30,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  observed that all he had said was, that if the Government raised the amount of endowment from 3,000 l. l.,
 Mr. Hume  begged leave to ask a question of the hon. Member for York in reference to a Bill called the York and North Midland Railway Bill, in which it appeared that, amongst other property to be sold, was the old harbour of Bridlington. Other harbours had already been sold, and at that rate it appeared as if they would soon be selling all the harbours on the coast. He wished to know if this matter had been submitted to those parties under whose direction the navigation of this country was placed?
 Mr. M. Gore  said, he was so strongly convinced of the justice of this measure, and its beneficial tendency, as regarded not only Ireland, but the Empire at large, that nothing should dissuade him from
 129
 Mr. Monckton Milnes  observed, that he must express his conviction that most of the Members of that House, who had paid any attention to the subject, could not regard the argument deduced from certain passages, even in the text books of Maynooth, as available against the present measure.
 Mr. Mangles  would ask the right hon. Gentleman a question, arising from the allegations in a petition which had been forwarded to him, but which he did not then intend to present to the House. The petitioners stated that they deeply regretted the strife and discord which now distracted the Church of England, arising from the efforts made to revive obsolete ceremonies. The right hon. Gentleman must be aware that the people of this country, in many parishes and districts, are distracted and divided by these differences. It appeared, so far as he was aware, that their disputes arose from the conscientious scruples entertained on both sides, many clergymen of the Established Church considering themselves bound by their vows and obligations to revive certain ceremonies, and to wear certain vestments, which were not in general use throughout the country; the parishioners on the other hand declaring that neither they nor their forefathers had been accustomed to these practices, and strongly objecting to the innovation. A vast deal of acrimonious feeling had thus
 101
 Mr. Mangles  said, that he had asked another question, which the right hon. Gentleman, in answering the first, did not reply to. He also asked whether Her Majesty's Government intended to take indirect measures through the instrumentality of the dignitaries of the Church?
 Mr. Granger  said, there was nothing to prevent the Catholics endowing the College by money in the funds, which would, perhaps, be a much better course than by investment in lands.
 Mr. Redington  said, that though he should not support the proposition of the hon. Baronet the Member for Hull, yet he should not oppose a clause the tendency of which was to facilitate the endowment of Maynooth. He trusted that the Statute of Mortmain would not be incidentally discussed upon any question that might arise, and that no attempt would be made to curtail the voluntary endowment of Maynooth.
 Mr. Redington  said, if he recollected right, a certain number of years ago, there was a Mr. Colquhoun, who made a charge that there were taught certain doctrines in a school in the city of Glasgow. That charge was publicly made; the persons who were trustees of the school required the Mr. Colquhoun to whom he referred to substantiate the charge. The Mr. Colquhoun he alluded to never succeeded in substantiating the charge, and if he was not mistaken, a vote of censure was passed upon that Mr. Colquhoun. He might be mistaken in the person, but he was strongly reminded of that Mr. Colquhoun when he heard the hon. Gentlemen opposite talk of being prepared to nail any Gentleman to a certain point. He might, too, be erroneous in his reminiscences on another subject; but if it were not a lapse of memory on his part, there was, some years ago, a Mr. Colquhoun, a Member for Kilmarnock, in that House; that Mr. Colquhoun had
 138
 Mr. Redington  referred to the number of splendid Catholic churches springing up throughout Ireland as an additional proof that the Catholic clergy and laity of that country were not indifferent to the spiritual interests of the communion.
 Mr. Redington  did not at all concur in the view taken by the gallant Colonel. Judging from the tone adopted by the Irish Protestant papers, he thought that their forbearance did them great honour; and even within the last four days he had received a declaration signed by the lead-
 110
 Mr. Wyse  said, the learned Recorder for Dublin spoke as if the Catholics of Ireland did not support any college out of their own funds, when the fact was they supported colleges at Galway, Meath, Kilkenny and Carlow. They also supported their own bishops, as well as their inferior clergy and several schools. It was therefore, too bad to tax them with illiberality. He thought this was another ground for the present grant. At present the funds of the College of Maynooth were insufficient to educate students for the high office they were called upon to fill as Catholic priests. There was no parsimonious feeling on the part of the Catholics of Ireland; and surely the Protestants of Ireland had no cause to complain since they had Trinity College to themselves.
 Mr. Wyse  observed, that before the Clause was put to the vote, he wished to take that opportunity, not of continuing the discussion—if discussion it might be called—but of denying the charge which had been frequently made in this debate, that a book entitled  Dens on Theology 131
 Mr. Wyse  did not originate this discussion; it originated on the other side of the House. He would not detain the Committee a single instant beyond what was necessary, not for his own vindication, but to prove the correctness of the statement which he had made. He had stated that Dens' book was not now read, and that it had never been read, at Maynooth. That statement he would repeat, and he did so, on what he considered authority of the most unquestionable character—the authority of the heads and professors of the College at the present moment. With regard to the particular doctrines to which hon. Gentlemen might object, and which might be found in this or in that book, it was one thing to find them in books, and another thing to ascertain whether they were doctrines taught at the College or not. To the assertion that they were taught there, he would return in answer, that they were not taught, nor had they been taught there, within his recollection. He placed this assertion, on his part, on the same ground as he had placed the former,—the authority of the professors of Maynooth. They declared that it was a portion of their statutes that these doctrines should be repudiated; and, further, that instructions were given to the professors of theology to inculcate their repudiation upon the students. He was ready to point out in the writings of the different Reformers who commenced the Reformation in Germany, and in those of many others who were looked up to as the great authorities of the several Protestant denominations in the country, and whose opinions reached in various forms down to the present day, passages which that Committee, as well as every other body similarly constituted, could not but consider condemnable. He had books now in his hand from which he could read such
 133 "God works the evil in us as well as the good," and that "the great perfection of faith consists in believing God to be just, although by his own will he necessarily renders us worthy of damnation, so as to seem to take pleasure in the torments of the miserable." "Free-will is an empty name;" and, farther, "if God foresaw that Judas would be a traitor, Judas necessarily became a traitor; nor was it in his power to be otherwise. Man's will is like a horse; if God sit upon it, it goes as God would have it; if the devil ride it, it goes as the devil would have it; nor can the will choose its rider, but each of them studies which shall get possession of it." "Let this be your rule in interpreting the Scriptures: wherever they command any good work, do you understand that they forbid it, because you cannot perform it." "Unless faith be without the least good work, it does not justify, it is not faith." "See how rich a Christian is, since he cannot lose his soul do what he will, unless he refuse to believe; for no sin can damn him but unbelief." "Murder and adultery do not hurt the pleasant children (the elected) but work even for their good;" "My sins may displease God—my person is always acceptable to him. Though I should outsin Manasseh himself, I should not be less a pleasant child, because God always views me in Christ. Hence, in the midst of adulteries, murders, and incests, he can address me with 'Thou art all fair, my love, my undefiled; there is no spot in thee.' It is a most pernicious error of the schoolmen to distinguish sins according to the fact, not according to the person. Though I highly blame those who say, 'Let us sin, that grace may abound,' yet adultery, incest, and murder, upon the whole, make me holier."
 Mr. Ferrand  wished to ask the Government how their message of peace had been received in Ireland? Mr. Smith O'Brien had talked in the Conciliation Hall of 50,000 Frenchmen landing on the coast of Ireland, an American fleet in the Channel carrying hostile bands of Irish emigrants. That was the result of acting on expediency, and forgetting the principles which placed them in power—the result of conduct such as no Ministry, professing to act on constitutional principles, was ever before guilty of in the history of this country. He hoped that during the Whitsuntide holidays the Protestants of England would convene the constituencies, and compel their Representatives to appear before them, and give an account of the conduct they had pursued on this Bill. There were many of the Members of that House who had pledged themselves, on their words of honour, to resign their seats when called upon to do so by a majority of their constituents. He asked them if they would redeem that pledge? Were they not bound, as men of honour, to repair to their conttituents, and inquire what their feelings were on this occasion. He observed an hon. Member opposite representing a borough in Yorkshire, whom, from the line which he had taken, and the declarations ascribed to him in the public journals, he regarded as especially bound to give his constituents the opportunity of expressing their opinion upon his conduct, and of returning, if they chose, some Member who would honestly and faithfully discharge his duty to them.
 Mr. S. Crawford , being opposed to all State grants for ecclesiastical purposes, he thought it his duty to remove, as far as he could, every impediment to voluntary endowment. He should, therefore, vote for the Amendment if it were pressed.
 Mr. Stansfield , being the Member alluded to, said, that what he had told his constituents was, that he felt himself bound in honour to vote according to his own conviction, and that it was his intention to vote with the Government, merely from a view of the necessities of the State, as propounded by the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury. He would merely add that he had given his vote in accordance with the convictions he entertained. He thought the right hon. Baronet was the best judge of the public necessities; and when the right hon. Baronet stated them so strongly, agreeing as he did with the right hon. Baronet as to the propriety of doing justice to that great portion of Her Majesty's subjects who hitherto had been so neglected, he was
 126
 Colonel Verner  would not have trespassed upon the time of the House upon the present occasion, having so lately expressed his opinion with regard to the measure now before it, had it not been for what fell from the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) on Monday last. The right hon. Baronet was reported to have said,—
 "We cannot deny that the feeling among the Protestant population of Ireland, with respect to this vote, is materially different from that prevailing among the Protestant population of England. I believe there has been this one great advantage in the vote, that it has been the connecting link between the Protestant and Catholic population of Irelnad. 109
 Sir A. Brooke  denied that the opposition to the Bill on the part of the Protestants and Presbyterians of Ireland proceeded from any bigoted or hostile feeling towards the Roman Catholics. He, and those whom he had the honour to represent, and whose feelings he expressed in respect to this measure, had no desire to deprive the Irish Roman Catholics—either priesthood or peasantry—of the benefits of a liberal education; they were anxious, on the contrary, that the most liberal amount of education should be extended to all classes, provided it was based on sound principles — for they knew that education would enable the people to judge for themselves, which, unfortunately, they could not do at present. He could not reconcile it with his views that the State should maintain, much less that the Protestant Church of Ireland should maintain, a college like Maynooth for the education of the Roman Catholic priesthood, and the propagation of the Roman Catholic religion. He felt bound to give to the Bill all the opposition in his power.
 Sir J. Graham  ventured to hope that there was some gross exaggeration in the statement put forth. The right hon. Gentleman had been so obliging as to call his attention to the subject ten days ago, and he lost no time in bringing it under the notice of the Lord Advocate; and it was intended by that noble and learned Lord to institute an inquiry into the subject. But the right hon. Member for Perth must from his own official experience in the Home Department know that he had no power to interfere unless for the purpose of preserving the public peace. It appeared to him, however, that no circumstances could justify a landlord in giving notice to so many tenants in one district at once, and he felt that he could not condemn in terms too strong such extensive removals.
 Sir J. Hanmer , in reply, observed, that seeing the munificent manner in which Oxford and Cambridge had been endowed, he was anxious to extend the same facility to his Roman Catholic fellow subjects. Seeing the large proportion of people professing that religion in Ireland, he had no objection to their having a great and noble university. If the right hon. Baronet ever travelled along the Mediterranean, he must have observed that all those lands in the hands of the ecclesiastical bodies were the best culti-
 122 l.
 Sir J. Hanmer  rose to move the Amendment of which he had given notice, viz., to omit the words which limit the trustees of Maynooth College taking any real property with which it might be desired voluntarily to endow them. The right hon. Baronet had given a good reason for not acceding to the Amendment suggested by his hon. Friend (Sir R. Inglis) though, until he had heard that reason, he (Sir J. Hanmer) had been inclined to agree with the Amendment, as it would have enabled the Charitable Bequests trustees to receive any property it might have been desired to give them for the purposes of the College; while, as trustees under the Act, they would be restrained from receiving it. He was not willing to see the Government committed to this troublesome ecclesiastical question. Their policy with regard to Ireland would have been more easy and more beneficial if full facilities had been given to every man to endow his own church as he pleased. He did not wish to enter into any general principle upon the present occasion; but he could not understand the wisdom of continuing laws which had their foundation exclusively on feudal reasons. To the propriety of continuing the laws of mortmain, his noble Friend (Lord J. Manners) had already, and would soon again, direct the attention of the House. From the reign of Henry III. to 15th Richard II., a code of laws containing various Statutes, had been passed, which was designated the Code of Mortmain. By the 15th Richard II. the object of that code had been defeated; but it was not until the time of Henry VII., that that defeating Statute had been applied to Ireland. The Statute of Superstitious Uses had been passed in the 13th of Henry VIII., by which many trusts and uses had been restricted, which had not been included in the former Act. This Statute, however, had not applied to Ireland; and even with regard to England,
 117
 Sir R. Inglis  said, reference had been made to strong language used out of doors against the Roman Catholics; but he begged Gentlemen would recollect what strong language had more than once been uttered out of doors against the Established Church, by those who would do well to remember the professions and promises which they had made—that no measure prejudicial to that Church should receive their support.
 Sir Inglis  agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Bath (Mr. Roebuck), that there would be great danger in giving to the Maynooth trustees the unrestricted power proposed to be vested in them by the hon. Member for Hull. If such a power were given at all, he could not see why it should be confined exclusively to Roman Catholics. The hon. Member for Hull (Sir J. Hanmer) did not attempt to effect any reduction in the amount proposed to bevoted from the Consolidated Fund for
 120 l. l., l.; l. l.
 Sir H. Inglis  could not but think that the hon. Member for Northamptonshire was endeavouring to outbid Her Majesty's Government in respect to the favours to be conferred on the Roman Catholic College of Maynooth. He hoped the hon. Member would withdraw the Amendment on the grounds urged by a
 123 l. l.
 Sir R. Inglis  observed, that no man could be said to have a vested interest, when he was made aware beforehand that one of the conditions of his accepting office was, that he must have no vested interest.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that he wished to put upon record a sort of protest against the present measure, by bringing up a Clause to declare that no enjoyment of pecuniary advantage under this Bill should create a vested interest.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, looking forward to the period when, by possibility—a very remote possibility he hoped — this Bill would become law, he would suggest an Amendment which he thought might be advantageously introduced, something to this effect—That the words,
 "The trustees of the said College, and their successors for ever, shall be one body politic and corporate, by the name of the Trustees of the College of Maynooth, and by that name shall have perpetual succession, and a common
 115
 Sir. R. Inglis  would give to his noble Friend's question as direct an answer as
 112
 Sir R. Inglis , observing that the Resolution which was on
 98
 Sir R. Peel  was confident that no official information had been received on the subject. He had seen the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies but the day before, and was confident that, had such information been received, the noble Lord would have mentioned the fact to him.
 100
 Sir Robert Peel  was sorry to inform his hon. Friend that he could not acquiesce in his suggestion. His hon. Friend had admitted that it would make but little difference whether it were admitted or rejected; and he (Sir R. Peel) could not suppose that he should conciliate any party in favour of the Bill by acquiescing in the proposition; while, on the other hand, it would imply suspicion of the trustees, and possibly give offence to the Roman Catholics of Ireland. What was it that his hon. Friend proposed? Not that the endowment should be less permanent, but that the trust for carrying the powers of the Act into effect should rest, not in the trustees of the College of Maynooth, but in the trustees appointed by the Act of last Session. Now the purposes and objects of the two Acts were totally distinct; and to take from the Maynooth trustees the trust which they had hitherto administered satisfactorily and without complaint, would imply suspicion of their conduct. He found the trustees of this College appointed by the Parliament of Ireland before the Union, and recognised by the Imperial Parliament afterwards—he found full confidence placed in them as the trustees for the management of this College. He found that the Lord Chancellor, the Master of the Rolls, and certain judicial authorities who had originally been appointed trustees, had ceased to act, and that their capacity as trustees was extinguished, with the consent of the Parliament, and that Roman Catholic trustees exclusively administered the trust—the judges ceasing to act, as being Protestants; and if, under such circumstances, he were to say he would not allow the trustees he found so appointed, and so administering the trust, to continue in the management of the College, but would transfer their
 116
 Sir Robert Peel  did not understand that there was any intention on the present occasion to revive the general discussion. He thought that there was a general understanding, not that one or two individuals might not deliver their sentiments; but that they were to proceed with the Committee that night. He hoped, therefore, that the hon. Member for Kent would consider that no disrespect was intended towards him when he declined entering into the discussion. None felt more disposed than he was to do justice to the motives that actuated the hon. Member; and he begged to assure him that when he had used the term "ferment," it was with no intention of offering disrespect to those who were opposed to the grant to Maynooth; at the same time he was bound to tell his hon. Friend, that it was his firm determination to persevere with this measure. He did not think it could with justice be said that he was forcing the measure upon the consideration of the House. He had never offered the slightest objection to the adjournment of the debate, and the subject had already been debated ten nights. He made not the slightest complaint of those repeated adjournments; but then there was the hon. and gallant Colonel (Colonel Sibthorp), who thought that in proposing the adjournment to a distant day, he did so with some mysterious object. The reason for his doing so was, because he understood from his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford, that he thought it impossible that the debate could come to a conclusion on Friday, the day before the adjournment for the holidays. It was, then, because he did not desire to have an adjourned debate dormant during the holidays, that he postponed the third reading till Monday after the Whitsun recess. With respect to what had been said by the hon. and gallant Colonel (Colonel Verner), he deliberately repeated that he did think that a feeling (one such as could scarcely be expected) had been exhibited by the Protestants of Ireland on this subject—a generous feeling—a feeling of great forbearance on the part of the Protestant gentry, and such as was calculated to engender kindly feelings throughout Ireland. He did not mean to say that the whole of the Protestant body were in favour of this measure; but the hon. and
 111 "The undersigned have seen with much satisfaction the proposal of Her Majesty's Government to increase the amount of the grant annually made in support of the Royal College of Maynooth. "They feel that measures thus tending to improve the social position of the Roman Catholic priesthood will accelerate the growth of that mutual forbearance, and of that charity in politics, which have been of late springing up among all parties in Ireland."
 Sir R. Peel  understood the hon. Gentleman to ask him if the Government were prepared to give any assurance, with respect to the introduction of legislative measures—with respect to the exercise directly of the authority of the Executive Government, or with respect to a communication to be made to the bishops, soliciting their interference. The reply which he had to give to both of these questions was, that the Government was not prepared to give any assurance of interference.
 Sir R. Peel  recollected that the hon. Gentleman had several days since mentioned the subject to him, and had given him notice that he would put the question. He was not prepared to give any assurance with respect to any interference on the part of the Government in reference to the matters mentioned in the petition.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that such a clause was hardly worthy of any Legislature—such a clause, moreover, could not bind them. Surely the House would not sanction the principle that if a professor were to enjoy his salary for thirty years, that he must by reason of such a clause as this be deprived of all the advantages of a vested interest. He really did not see how such a clause would promote the objects which his hon. Friend the Member for Oxford had in view.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that permission was expressly given to the trustees of Maynooth to hold personal property to any amount. Therefore, those individuals who possessed real property which they wished to bestow upon the College of Maynooth, had only to sell that real property in the market, and present the gift as personal property. He must say that he was favourable to the voluntary endowment of the College of Maynooth, but he did not wish that endowment to be made contrary to the general principles of law. It was not on any ground of jealousy as to the College of Maynooth, that he wished to limit the value of property to be held by the trustees to 3,000 l. l. l 121 l.
 Sir R. Peel  said he had heard the discussion which had just taken place with great pain; for of all assemblies he thought this House was least fitted to discuss questions of this nature. He had before stated that the servants of Her Majesty had considered whether any public advantage could result from instituting an inquiry into the course of education pursued at Maynooth. They had read with great attention the Report of 1827. He did not consider that that Report had exhausted the whole subject; but he thought it very improbable that any new
 139 "Are you aware that Dr. Paley, in his  Moral Philosophy, "In the third Council of Lateran, is it not understood that amongst the punishments decreed against the Albigenses, this was determined—'Illorum subditi et vassalli relaxatos se noverint a debito fidelitatis dominii et totius obsequii donec in tanta iniquitate permanserint?'" 140 "If it be supposed that a Council or Pope, or any authority whatever, assumed the right of absolving subjects from their allegiance to their Sovereign, I would disregard their decision, and consider the subject by no means freed from the obligations of fidelity. Not only would I despise and disregard such a decree, but, if a subject of the Sovereign in question, I would consider it my religious duty to openly resist it, and advise such of the people as might be committed to my care to remain unshaken in their allegiance."
 Sir. J. Tyrrell  said, that if what had occurred was to be considered as an indication that there was a short supply of members for the Select Committee to resort to, and if an impartial rule were to be adopted, those Members who were in Ireland should be called upon to take their fair share of duty.
 Lord J. Russell  thought it was extremely desirable that this matter should be settled by the House on fair terms to all parties. He did not consider it a sufficient excuse that a Member was engaged on a Public Committee, because they all knew that attendance on Public Committees was not compulsory, and that Members after being appointed on them were at perfect liberty to leave London, and to absent themselves during the time of their sitting, and thereby might escape compliance with that Order, which the House intended should be compulsory. He agreed with the hon. Member for Montrose that, as they had adopted the rule of compulsory attendance, to say to one class of Members, "You shall attend on these Railway Committees, and your attendance shall be compulsory," while other Members, without any leave of absence, or any known and recognised cause, were absent from the House, was unjust; for it was obvious that their absence rendered the duties of other Members more onerous. He thanked the hon. Gentleman very much for raising this question; and he hoped that if compulsory attendance were to be continued, some means
 169
 Captain Berkeley  said, however anxious hon. Members might be to do their duties, the willing, certainly, ought not to be called to take a distasteful duty, because the unwilling kept out of the way. It seemed to him extraordinary that those hon. Members who thought proper to attend the Repeal Association, had not been summoned on one of these Railway Committees.
 Lord J. Russell  said, as he understood from the right hon. Baronet a Registration Bill was prepared for Ireland, he wished to know whether the franchise would be contained in it?
 Lord J. Russell  said, the hon. Gentleman (Mr. B. Osborne) appeared to think that projects of this kind could not be brought before Committees if they strictly enforced the Standing Orders. Now, it might be right, in consequence of the peculiarities of the tenure of land in Ireland, not to require strict compliance with the Standing Orders; but then there should be some rule of the House on the subject. It could not be right that the authority of this Committee should be strictly enforced with regard to all Railway Bills in England and Scotland, but should be set at nought with respect to Ireland. He hoped, therefore, the House would either come to some special Resolution with respect to Irish Railway Bills, or that in future the authority of the Committee would not be allowed to be set at nought by a Member of the Government.
 Mr. R. Trevor  begged to thank the hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies (Mr. G. W. Hope) for the manner in which he had communicated to the friends of Captain Fitzroy the intention of the Government to recall that gallant Officer. He was well aware that the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster (Captain Rous) had for a long period taken a deep interest in the welfare of his gallant relative, Captain Fitzroy. He should be extremely sorry in any way to embarrass the Government, for the intimation he had received was made in the kindest spirit; and he took this opportunity of thanking the noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Department (Lord Stanley) for his courtesy. The hon. Under Secretary (Mr. G. W. Hope) had to-night read an extract from the despatch sent out to Captain Fitzroy. The only point on which Captain Fitzroy's family had entertained any anxiety was completely set at rest; for it was clear that nothing had occurred during the time he held the appointment in New Zealand, reflecting in any degree on his high character as a gentleman and an officer. He (Mr. Trevor) hoped the Government would be fortunate enough to secure the services of a gentleman who would be more successful in dealing with the difficulties of the situation. It was impossible to overstate the immense difficulties of the position Captain Fitzroy was called upon to fulfil when he assumed the government; and he would venture to say, that the Government would not obtain a more able or more honest servant than his gallant relative.
 Mr. Williams  was extremely sorry that he could not go along with his hon. Friend. A question of so much importance ought to be brought before the House as a substantive Motion, and not as an Amendment. If his hon. Friend had restricted his Amendment to the first portion of it, that no public money should be voted out of the taxes for any purpose connected with religious establishments, he (Mr. Williams) would have voted for it. That would be a proper Amendment to the Bill before the House. He had supported the Bill, and would shortly-state his reasons for having done so. He had supported it, because of the vast amount of money which was taken out of the pockets of Roman Catholics and Dissenters of Ireland and England, and appropriated to various religious purposes. He was astonished to see the hon. Baronet the Member for Oxford University, and the hon. Member for Kent, who were such stanch advocates of the interests of the Church of England, oppose this Bill. He would instance some of the sums voted out of the public money for the support of the Established Church, a part of that money coming out of the pockets of the Roman Catholics of Ireland and England. 1,500,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 190 l., l. l. l.
 General Johnson  was sorry the Motion of the hon. Member for Rochdale was so worded, as, in its present form, he could not give it his support. He had no objection to a grant to Maynooth, even of a much larger amount than that proposed, if taken from the ecclesiastical revenues of Ireland. He only objected to the source from which it was intended to take it.
 Captain Berkeley  intended to avail himself of another opportunity for calling attention to the proper manning of the
 220 Albion,
 Captain Berkeley  did not find any fault with the present Board of Admiralty, but he thought it of the highest importance that the House of Commons should know whether or not it was as easy as formerly to man the British navy. In his opinion it was not; and he preferred the opinion of the hon. and gallant Admiral near him on that point to that of the four Gentlemen who had been Secretaries to the Admiralty.—Vote agreed to.
 Lord Worsley  said, this was not the first instance during the present Session when he had heard of hon. Members of that House being canvassed to come down and vote on particular questions. He had himself always entertained a strong determination not to vote upon any Private Bill with the merits of which he was unacquainted. He came down to the House to-night just as strangers were ordered to withdraw, previous to the division on the Irish Great Western Railway Bill; but as he knew nothing of the merits of the question, he did not vote. If the practice of canvassing Members were persisted in, where were they to stop? Some individuals might not have sufficient delicacy to prevent them from canvassing Members who were on the Committees. They had lately effected great improvements in the mode of conducting railway business in that House, and he hoped the general feeling of hon. Gentlemen was opposed to the canvass of Members for their votes on particular Bills.
 Captain Rous  said, he did not rise with the intention of finding fault with Lord Stanley for superseding his gallant friend, Captain Fitzroy, for the best of all reasons—he was totally ignorant of the grounds of his dismissal; but his object was, when the supercession of Captain Fitzroy was made public, to be allowed to pay his tribute to the public worth of that gallant officer. Captain Fitzroy was a midshipman under his (Captain Rous's) command, in a corvette, in 1822 and 1823; and he would give the House his word that there was not a better seamen or officer in Her Majesty's navy. From 1831 to 1834, Captain Fitzroy commanded and surveyed the Coast of South America, from the River Plate to the Coast of Chili. In the performance of this arduous duty, as he could not complete the survey of Cape Horn without the assistance of a second vessel, he purchased and fitted out, at his own expense, a schooner. He likewise brought to England three natives
 184 l. l. imperium in imperio
 Captain Rous  would ask, then, whether the report that Captain Fitzroy was about to be superseded in the Government of New Zealand was true or not?
 Captain Rous  said, that the House would be pleased to recollect that in the month of March last, on the occasion of a Motion on the subject of New Zealand, an opportunity had been taken of making a severe attack on his gallant friend, Captain Fitzroy, the Governor of that Colony. He was absent when that fierce and unexpected attack was made on the character of his gallant friend; but he consoled himself with the idea—["Order, order!"]
 Captain Rous  proceeded to state that he had heard with great pain that his gallant friend, Captain Fitzroy, was about to be superseded in the Government of New Zealand; and it was an additional pang that he had no opportunity of defending his gallant friend; and he, therefore, took that opportunity of asking a question on the subject. There were hon. Members on both sides of the House who knew Captain Fitzroy perfectly well; and he appealed to them, whether they had not found his gallant friend, both in his public and private capacity, a most honourable man? ["Order!"]
 Mr. John S. Wortley  urged the importance of adhering to the rule already laid down with respect to attendance on Railway Committees.
 Mr. Sydney Herbert  said, that the pre-
 224 Albion
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that as he was the original Mover of the Resolution, the House might expect him to say something on the subject. He certainly did understand, when that Resolution was carried, that the attendance on Railway Committees was to be compulsory, although it was true that Members had small thanks and very great trouble in attending those Committees. The attendance of the hon. Member for Winchester on the Committees he had mentioned, was not in his opinion of that stringent character which prevented his attendance on the Railway Committee; and he thought the hon. Member ought to give up his attendance on the other Committees, and obey the requisition of the Committee of Selection. There were no inquiries of more importance at present to the public than the various inquiries pending before Railway Committees; and, therefore, he thought it was not asking too much of the House to require the attendance of Members on Railway Committees, although they might be members of other Committees of a public character.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that if the hon. Member would not make a declaration that he would attend, he should be ready to make a Motion to that effect.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that if any hon. Member refused to obey the Orders of the House, he ought to be committed by order of the House to the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms. The question had not arisen, and therefore the House had not made any Resolution on the subject of the question now before them; but the House undoubtedly had the power, and if it should be necessary to call upon the House to put that power in motion, he was sure he should be supported by a very large majority in making that appeal.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that if any Member, whether in Scotland, Ireland, or England, did so refuse, he should be ready to move that such Member be committed to the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that the right hon. and learned Gentleman who spoke last had completely anticipated what he was about to observe on the Motion. Of course he fully concurred in what the right Gentleman had said.
 Mr. B. Escott  said, if it was the wish of the House, he was perfectly ready to state the reasons why he had not been present. If he had been aware that such notice would be taken of his non-attendance, he would certainly have been prepared with the correspondence which had passed between himself and the officer of the Select Committee on that subject; and he was quite sure that that correspondence would have satisfied any hon. Member that he had pursued the only course which, consistently with his duty, he could take. He would endeavour to state the substance of what had passed. He received a letter from a gentleman of the name of Creed, the officer, he believed, of the Committee of Selection, informing him that he had been appointed on a certain Committee for that day. He wrote back to Mr. Creed, stating that he should be unable to attend on that Committee, inasmuch as he was already engaged on two Committees, and that attendance on two Committees, added to his other Parliamentary duties, would not admit of his attending to any other business. He was informed by a second letter from that gentleman, that his letter had been submitted to the Committee of Selection, and that that Committee did not consider the excuse given for his non-attendance a suffi-
 167
 Mr. B. Escott  thought his explanation had not been understood. It was not that he preferred serving on one Committee rather than another, but that he found his attendance on the Railway Committee would be absolutely incompatible with his other duties. If the House, on dividing, should direct him to attend this Railway Committee, he would be most willing to do so.
 Mr. B. Escott  said the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) was mistaken in supposing the Secretary for Ireland had acted in his official capacity. He himself heard that right hon. Gentleman state he did not wish to use any influence as Secretary for Ireland; and doubtless he had as much right to vote on the question as any other hon. Member who voted for it.
 Mr. Hindley  would not detain the House long, but he could not allow that opportunity to pass without protesting against the charge of ingratitude which had been made against the Dissenters. They had given their aid in obtaining Catholic Emancipation; but they felt that it was utterly impossible, if the Bill before the House passed, to resist the endowment of the Roman Catholic priests of Ireland. He contended for the voluntary principle; and believed it was impossible to govern Ireland by maintaining the Church of the minority as the endowed Church of that country. He believed the voluntary system was the only one by which they could really carry out the vital principles of the Christian religion. He had, on a former occasion, shown that between three and
 197 l.; l. l.; l.; l. l. l. 198
 Mr. Hindley  seconded the Motion.
 Mr. Speaker  again intimated to the hon. and gallant Gentleman that he was quite out of order, when there was no question before the House, to make any statement, except what was necessary by way of explanation, to render the question he was about to put intelligible.
 Mr. Speaker  intimated to the hon. and gallant Member that he was out of order.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, he was not surprised there was a difficulty in getting men for the Navy at this season. The late Government found it difficult to get only 3,000 men; so that, if the present Government had already got 3,400, they had done as much as could be reasonably expected. There was no difficulty in getting men in the autumn, but now they were just going out in merchantmen on short voyages. He could not agree that the present race of sailors were degenerated. The late Government had, undoubtedly, kept their ships at home undermanned; the present Government did the same. The late Government, however, did so, because they thought they were right; but the present Government did so, knowing that they were wrong. The late Government were blamed for their conduct in this respect, and the hon. Member for Kent used to express his fear of the Russians attacking the orchards of Kent; and yet during the last summer the coast was left completely defenceless. The present Government were accusing them for what they themselves were guilty of, because they would not come down and ask for 2,000 men more. He would conclude by saying that the Navy was not in the state it ought to be; neither had Her Majesty's Government a sufficient complement of men at command to make the Navy efficient.
 Mr. E. B. Roche  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet whether it was the intention of the Government this Session to bring in an Act on the subject of the franchise and registration of voters in Ireland; and also, whether it was their intention to alter the Irish Municipal Reform Act, so as to place the municipal bodies of Ireland on a footing of equality with those of England?
 Mr. Strutt  was sorry that any measure should be lost which was calculated to benefit Ireland; but, as a Member of the Committee on Standing Orders, he must say that no other course was left to them but to report that those Orders ought not to be dispensed with. It would establish a very dangerous precedent, if the House should set aside the Report of that Committee.
 Mr. French  was glad that the hon. Member for Oxford, the Chairman of the Standing Orders Committee, was in his place; as he wished to assure him and the House, that in bringing forward the Motion of which he had given notice, he did not mean to question the correctness of their decision in respect to the Irish Great Western Railway. On the contrary, he considered that they could not, consistently with their public duty, have arrived at any other decision; that although the omission of numbers on the plans laid before them were in themselves trifling and unimportant, they were so numerous that had they of their own authority recommended the Standing Orders to be dispensed with, they would have created a precedent which must of necessity prove most embarrassing to them in their future proceedings. He therefore again repeated, that he neither impugned
 159 160 l. 161
 Mr. F. French  said, the grounds on which the Dublin and Galway matter had been brought forward in that House, were wholly distinct from the question of noncompliance with the Standing Orders. The authority of the Committee on Standing Orders had never been questioned. The supporters of the Motion for leave to proceed with the Dublin and Galway Bill, had submitted a case of gross fraud to the House; they did not dispute the propriety of the decision of the Standing Orders Committee, but they were prepared to show that none of the Orders had actually been violated, though he admitted they were apparently violated.
 Mr. Shaw  was of opinion that unless the Resolution were continued, and the attendance on Railway Committees made compulsory, it would be impossible to get through the business during the Session of Parliament.
 Mr. George A. Hamilton  stated that he was certainly very averse to expressing any opinion that might appear contrary to the judgment of the Standing Orders Committee. But he could not avoid saying that he did feel that the question of a line of railway to the extreme west of Ireland might, and ought to be, looked upon rather as a national question, than as one merely relating to a Private Bill or a private railway. He must, however, add, that he entered fully into the considerations urged by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, with respect to the Railway Bill from Dublin to Mullingar. He thought that both projects ought to be submitted to a Committee of the House; that the whole question of a western railway in Ireland ought, if possible, to be disposed of by Parliament during the present Session. It was a matter of the utmost public importance that it should. He had himself, on a recent occasion, visited the West of Ireland, and when he recollected the feeling which prevailed among all classes in that part of Ireland, and their anxiety with regard to a railway, he earnestly hoped the House would pause before it rejected the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Roscommon.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, that his hon. and gallant Friend having given him notice of the question, he was prepared to give an answer. The hon. and gallant Member, in giving notice of the question, stated his pur-
 173 "The concern with which I announce this decision is greatly enhanced by the remembrance of the public spirit and disinterestedness with which you assumed this arduous duty, and of the personal sacrifices which you so liberally made on that account; nor can I omit to record that in whatever other respect our confidence in you may have been shaken, Her Majesty's Government retain the most implicit reliance on your personal character, and on your zeal for the Queen's service. You will, therefore, readily believe that I have acted on this occasion in reluctant submission to what I regard as an indispensable public duty."
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, that there had been nothing said against the private character of Captain Fitzroy. On the contrary, every credit was given to him for an anxious desire to discharge his duty; he had evinced great courage and had made great sacrifices.
 Mr. Aglionby  was a Member of the Standing Orders Committee; but he had been accidentally prevented from attending when this Bill was under discussion.
 180
 Mr. Aglionby  said, he would not occupy the time of the House by any observations upon the remarks which had been somewhat irrelevantly introduced by the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster. He would only say, that the hon. and gallant Officer was entirely ignorant of the whole subject; and at the proper time
 185
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was not aware that there was any uneasiness in the public mind on this subject; but he was happy to state that there was no intention to alter the regulations under which the Vote for Education in England had been applied.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman had misunderstood the complaint of his hon. Friend. The complaint was, not that the Secretary for Ireland, or any other Member of the Government, had taken his own view of a Private Bill, but that the Secretary for
 178
 Mr. Labouchere  said, it was perfectly obvious that the House had intended that attendance on these Committees should be compulsory; and an hon. Member's being upon another Committee, therefore, did not form the slightest excuse for his non-attendance. It would introduce great doubt and uncertainty to allow the reason which had been assigned as a sufficient excuse for absence.
 Mr. Warburton  thought the safest course would be to adhere in all cases to the decision of the Committee on Standing Orders. If the present Motion were carried, its principle ought to be made retrospective, and applied to all the projects which had been rejected for non-compliance with the Standing Orders. If this were not done, the promoters of those projects would have much cause for complaint.
 Mr. Warburton  said, a matter had occurred during the Private Business, that evening, which he thought it important they should take into their consideration. There was a private Bill, the Irish Great Western Railway Bill, with respect to which the Standing; Orders Committee had reported that it ought not to be proceeded with. Nevertheless, in the Paper of the Private Business of that day, there was a Notice by the hon. Member for Roscommon, that the promoters of this Bill should be permitted to proceed with it. That Notice came under discussion that evening; and the Chairman of the Standing Orders Committee, and several other Members, in speaking on the merits of the Motion, stated that in 300 cases they found the Standing Orders had not been complied with by the promoters of this Bill, and that of these thirty-four were of great importance. Other Gentlemen who had spoken in favour of the Motion, stated that it was a matter of the greatest importance for the welfare of Ireland, that, in spite of this non-compliance with the Standing Orders, the Bill should be proceeded with. The House then came to a vote on the Motion, and affirmed it by a majority of 97 to 81. He would not have called attention to the subject, except that a Member of the Government, the Secretary for Ireland, had spoken in favour of the Motion, and had voted for it. Now, when private solicitations had been made to him (Mr. Warburton) by many of his constituents to support similar Motions, and particularly in the case of the Birkenhead and Manchester Railway, when all parties admitted that there were only two or three cases in which the Standing Orders had not been complied with, his course had always been to endeavour to persuade them to accede to the Reports of the Standing Orders Committee, because in his opinion that House did not, and could not, decide such questions on the merits, but merely in favour of that party which had made the strictest canvass. He thought this was a question affecting the whole conduct of Private Bills in that House. He looked upon it that "chaos would come again," if, when the Repor
 177
 Mr. Warburton  observed, that the
 215 216
 Mr. Morrison  wished to asked the right hon. Gentleman the Chairman of the Railway Committee to which the first batch of Railway Bills had been referred (Sir G. Grey), on what principle the Committee had fixed the
 166
 Dr. Bowring  said, that the right hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford occupied a most satisfactory and complacent position. He had set himself up as the standard of religious truth. He seemed to think that what he believed must necessarily be true, and what he disbelieved must necessarily be error; and that his conscience and his decision were to guide and rule the Legislature: this was an easy way of settling all questions. "Truth is with me; so give me patronage and protection: error is with all who oppose me; therefore, you must repudiate and exclude them." He (Dr. Bowring) did not think any man had a right to hold such language. The proposition which his hon. Friend the Member for Rochdale had brought before the House should have re-
 192 193
 Dr. Bowring  would put it to the House to consider of what value would the inquiries before Public Committees be, and what weight the Reports would have with the public, if the best Members were draughted off to serve on Railway Committees. It was plain Public Committees in such circumstances could not do their duty. He thought Public Committees ought to be constituted of a less number of members than at present.
 Mr. Colquhoun  wished to ask a question of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, of which he had given him private notice. He wished
 172
 Mr. Roebuck  said he had received a communication, in which Mr. Cams Wilson stated he had been consigned to a felon's cell in Jersey, supplied with felon's food, and that all communication from outside with him was entirely stopped; that his wife had been unable to obtain admittance to him; and, in short, that he was shut out from all human converse, except with the gaoler. He (Mr. Roebuck) wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether he had had any information on the subject, or whether he had made inquiry upon it; and, if so, whether those statements were correct?
 Mr. J. W. Patten  said, the ground on which the House came to its recent decision was the consideration of the great importance to Ireland of this railway; but then he was bound to say there had been a practice revived with regard to this particular Bill that was seriously to be deprecated. He referred to the fact of Members having been canvassed to come down and vote; and if the House did not set its face against such a practice, it would be impossible for the Standing Orders or any other Committee to discharge fairly the duties entrusted to them. The duties of such Committees were suf-
 181
 Mr. J. W. Patten  was opposed to the Motion. So far from the Committee having strained the Standing Orders against the proposed measure, they had done all in their power to help it on. Indeed, they had even gone out of their way to do so; but the instances of noncompliance were so numerous and so glaring, that it was impossible they could be passed over.
 Mr. Hume  differed from the right hon. Gentleman altogether on this subject.
 168
 Mr. Hume  begged to call the attention of the Home Secretary to a subject which had excited great interest in the parish in which he resided. A gentleman named Mayer had been carried before Mr. Twyford, a police magistrate, for an assault which he had committed under very extenuating circumstances. Bail to any amount was offered by a number of individuals, but was refused; and Mr. Mayer was carried to prison, where he remained for three days, when the matter was brought before the Court of Queen's Bench, and bail was allowed. The circumstance having excited a strong sensation, he begged to ask whether the right hon. Gentleman intended to re-consider, with a view to its amendment, the extraordinary Act of Parliament under which the magistrate was said to have acted.
 Mr. Hume  would take that opportunity of making a suggestion to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, and also of asking him whether it would not be desirable to have laymen educated in the Roman Catholic College of Maynooth, as well as those intended for the priesthood? He had understood that formerly laymen were educated in it, and it would be, in his opinion, most advisable if it were still to be continued a general educational institution, and to have it open, as it were, for the education of all classes, laymen as well as those intended for the ecclesiastical profession. He had received several letters in reference to his observations on this subject in that House, and he had always expressed his belief
 194
 Mr. Hume  was sorry to differ from the noble Lord. He agreed with him that it was a most desirable object to put an end to the Slave Trade and slavery. No man had done more with a view to that object than the noble Lord. Throughout the whole of the period during which he presided at the Foreign Office, his attention was unremittingly devoted to this matter. But we had been carrying out the views of the noble Lord at great expense and great risk, without being able to effect our object. The trade in slaves remained, he feared, as rife to-day as it was when England began her operations. He was not quite clear that the information they had, in many instances, could be depended upon. If correct information were supplied, he was afraid it would be found that they had added to the evils of the traffic, instead of suppressing it. When the noble Lord spoke of treaties with the African chiefs, he thought it would be impossible to effect much in that way; for so long as the chiefs could make it profitable to carry on the trade, it would be next to impossible to make them desist. If they burnt the baracoons one week, in the course of a few weeks the chiefs would be in possession of others. If they drove them from one point of the coast, they would soon be found at another, engaged in their nefarious traffic. This was a matter in which the exertions of England had been much misdirected. If half the time, trouble, and expense had been devoted to the increase of free labour in our own Colonies, we should have done much more in effecting the suppression of the Slave Trade, than we can now console ourselves with having done. As no good had resulted from the system so long pursued, a new course must now be taken. England was entitled to the credit of having—in the cause of philanthropy—in the cause of negro emancipation—done more than any other country in the world. He hoped that the attention of Government would be directed to the increase of free labour in the Colonies, both east and west. When they had deprived Brazil of its sugar and coffee market, in which it now commanded a good price for its productions, and rendered the Colonies of England able to produce those articles more cheaply than at present, they would succeed, and not till then, in putting a stop to the Slave Trade.
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  thought this rather a tantalizing discussion to some hon. Members. He thought the question had been settled some time ago. He had been on the Scotch Prisons Committee, and the Colonial Accounts Committee, when he received the Order of the Committee of Selection, which plunged him into a Railway Committee, where there were ten bills and twenty lawyers. The Chairman of the Committee of Selection told him that he had no  locus standi 170
 Mr. B. Osborne  thought the Secretary for Ireland had exercised a sound discretion on this subject. His hon. Friend seemed to forget that the difficulty of complying with the Standing Orders was multiplied a hundred-fold in Ireland, in consequence of the middleman system, and other peculiarities of the tenure of land in that country. For this reason, he thought there was no analogy between this case and that of the Birkenhead and Manchester Railway; and that if they were to enforce the Standing Orders strictly, it was impossible to pass any Railway Bill for Ireland.
 Mr. M. Milnes  thought it would be very well if the House understood, without any possibility of misapprehension, what would take place if a Member refused to attend.
 Mr. Mangles  felt assured that the hon. and gallant Officer the Member for Westminster would, upon reflection, see the injustice of imputing to the New Zealand Company that they had raised money upon false pretences.
 Mr. Sotheron  thought some decision ought to be come to with respect to the hon. Member for Winchester, before the House proceeded further.
 Mr. Estcourt  was not sorry that this subject had been brought forward, as it was one of considerable importance with reference to the proper carrying out of the plan which the House had adopted with respect to Railway Bills. If his hon. Friend had objected to the panel, a great deal of inconvenience might have been saved. It must be apparent to the House that if a Gentleman deferred the announcement of his inability to serve on a Committee till a late period, it was impossible that he could be excused. The Committee of Selection having taken into consideration the hon. Gentleman's statement that he was serving on another Committee, thought, that though technically an excuse, it was not a sufficient one. All that the Committee wished for was, that the House would express its opinion on the subject, and by that opinion they would be ready to abide.
 Mr. Sotheron  appeared at the Bar, and stated that he had to Report from the Select Committee QQ, that the Committee having met that day at twelve o'clock, Mr. Bickham Escott, one of the Members of the said Committee, was not present, and did not attend the Committee.
 Mr. Estcourt  was not acquainted with the merits of the proposed railway, and therefore he could not go into them. It was sufficient for him, as a Member of the Committee on Standing Orders, to know, that in more than 300 instances, in the proposed plans and surveys, the Standing Orders had not been complied with. Many of these Standing Orders were of importance; and the Committee found that it was their duty to report, as they had done, that in this case the Standing Orders ought not to be dispensed with, and that the parties ought not to be allowed to proceed. To set aside this Report of the Committee, would be to establish a very dangerous precedent, which would have the effect of rendering the Reports of Committees on Standing Orders of very little value in the House.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  considered the House was in a difficulty now, but that they would be in a still greater difficulty if they acted on the suggestion of the noble Member for Sunderland (Lord Howick). The House had, for an hour and a half,
 183
 Mr. Redington  supported the Motion, which did not imply any, the slightest, imputation against the Committee on Standing Orders, which had only adhered, rigidly adhered, to its duties; but, if it could be shown that a too rigid adherence to the Standing Orders in this case would work great injustice to all concerned in promoting the measure, he hoped the House would interpose its authority, and allow the parties to proceed. This was not a new case. There were several on the Journals of the House in which it had complied with similar Motions under similar circumstances. Let the House also bear in mind, that in this case there was no complaint by landowners on the line of not having received due notice. In fact, the objections were in a
 162
 Mr. S. Crawford  said, in proposing the Amendment of which he had given notice, that he did not bring forward that Amendment in any spirit of hostility to the Government; and he rejoiced to think that they contemplated other measures beneficial to Ireland. It was generally thought, and he concurred in the opinion, that there would be not only further grants to the Roman Catholics, but that there would be grants to the Protestant Dissenters also. This, however, he did not regard as matter which afforded any ground for congratulation, because he happened to be one of those who thought that there ought not to be
 187 188 "That any provision for the separate or exclusive education of any particular religious denomination, or for the support or endowment of any religious sect or sects by State grants, or funds raised by compulsory assessment, whether under the name of tithes, rents, cesses, taxes,  Regium Donum,
 Sir Charles Napier  agreed with the hon. Member for Kendal, with the noble Lord, and with the right hon. Baronet. He thought that if France and England should really and seriously combine to put down the Slave Trade, their object could soon be effected; but he did not think that France would ever come to such an agreement. That country was now trying to do away with the Right of Search. What plan France proposed as a substitute for that right, was not yet divulged; but it appeared that there was some plan in view. But if the right hon. Baronet would give up all that humbug of destroying baracoons, and all that humbug about doing what might be construed as being contrary to the law of nations, which he considered altogether humbug in reference to this matter, and embark a couple of thousand of black troops from the West Indies on board a few steam boats, and let them make a run from one end of the coast of Africa to the other, and destroy, in their progress, every place from which slaves were exported, his word for it, they would soon put an end to the Slave Trade. There was no use of mystifying the matter; for that was the plain English of it. Let them compare his plan with that which, for so many years, had been perseveringly pursued. Let them look at the loss of
 217
 Sir C. Napier  said, that the men with whom any ship was a favourite, entered only for that ship. The gallant Admiral had said that he would keep them for three years if he wanted them; but the men ought not to be turned out of a ship because one Admiralty thought proper to adopt one system, and another Admiralty another. He did not think that the gallant Admiral had given a satisfactory answer about undermanning the ships. Great outcry had been raised against the late Admiralty for having, in so extraordinary a manner, undermanned the ships in the Mediterranean. Men, it was true, were sent out, but they arrived after the war was over. The same thing would take
 221 Superb, 222 l. l. 223 l.;
 Sir G. Cockburn  said, that the gallant Officer had alluded, in the first part of his speech, to the success which had attended their efforts on the Coast of Africa, and was anxious to know whether they (the Government) were now succeeding in their efforts. He had great pleasure in being able to say, that during the last year, they had exceeded even their expectations. From news lately received from the Coast of Africa, it appeared that seventeen vessels had been recently captured, and he was very happy to say that three vessels out of every four were without slaves. This was the best proof which could be adduced of the value of having a squadron on the Coast of Africa. The squadron on the African station consisted of twenty-three vessels. Amongst these, there were six or seven steamers, which were very useful, although they did not find that they captured any more slavers than did the other sailing vessels. In the next place, they had that day received an account of an
 219 Queen, Hibernia, Canopus, Rodney Queen Hibernia
 Sir C. Cockburn  declared that no man could be more convinced than he was of the necessity of sending ships to sea fully manned. When the  Albion
 Sir G. Cockburn  thought the proceeding perfectly regular. The captain was obliged to sit on the court martial, and the members of that court were the only persons who had a right to judge of his capability to sit amongst them.
 Sir G. Cockburn  said he had not, but he was quite eligible, and probably would be.
 Sir G. Cockburn  said, it was true that a court martial had been held upon the officer named by the hon. and gallant Member, and that he had been found guilty of a breach of the Article referred to. He had, in consequence, been dismissed the ship, but not the service. The captain of the ship was a member of the court martial; but that was very common in the service. If the hon. and gallant Officer would look to the words of the Act, he would see that the Admiralty had no jurisdiction—the interference of the Admiralty was particularly guarded against. The officer, he begged to repeat, had not been dismissed the service, and would, he had no doubt, be employed again.
 Sir G. Grey  said, that as the Chairman of the Committee would, according to the Orders of the House, have to report the absence of the hon. Member again tomorrow if he did not attend the Committee, he should move, if the noble Lord opposite did not, that the hon. Member be ordered to attend the Railway Committee of which he was a Member.
 Sir G. Grey  said, as the hon. Member for Winchester did not seem disposed to make any declaration, he moved that the hon. Member be ordered to attend the Railway Committee on Group Q to-morrow.
 Sir G. Grey  said, that if the House acceded to this Motion, the Standing Order Committees should be spared the trouble of going into cases for the purpose of ascer-
 164
 Sir G. Grey  said, the rule which the Committee had taken for their guidance was, to inquire into the existing charges on several lines of railway, and to ascertain that the rates and charges proposed by the promoters of the Bill were not exorbitant. He was afraid that no uniform system could be adopted; but he thought it was desirable that before the House passed the Bills, it should know what were the actual rates and charges in the separate Bills which came under consideration. It would be extremely convenient if there were a clause in each Bill containing the table of fares.
 Captain Pechell  wished to know whether the hon. and gallant Officer considered the proceeding regular?
 Captain Pechell  inquired if Lieutenant Bridge had been appointed to another ship?
 Captain Pechell  wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Cockburn)on the subject of a court martial which had been held on board the  Cor- 199 morant,
 Captain Pechell  believed that the accounts of slaves landed were imperfect; and the only course left for the House to pursue was to discuss the question on the Returns, which they found to give the most correct account. He differed from the hon. Member for Montrose, as to the attempts which this country had made to put down the traffic in slaves. In his opinion, our operations had been most successful. He found that from 1831 to 1835 there were 75 vessels taken with slaves, and only 7 empty; and those who had the boldness and the courage to seize the empty ones, had been charged with damages to a considerable amount. From 1836 to 1841, 104 vessels were taken with slaves, and 143 empty. These were statements which he hoped the hon. Member for Montrose would take notice of. During the two last years of the late Government, the years 1840 and 1841, only 8 vessels loaded with slaves were captured, and 48 empty, by one account, and 54 by another, but say 50 empty, were also taken during these two years. This showed that the exertions of this country had been eminently successful. Now, the right hon. Gentleman who introduced the Estimates, and called for an increased Vote for the Naval Service, assigned, amongst other things, as a reason for making such a call, that additional armaments were to be sent to the Coast of Africa for the suppression of the Slave Trade. He would, therefore, call upon the Government to explain to the House whether they (the Government) had been successful in the new policy adopted, of concentrating their forces in the African seas, by the withdrawal of our cruisers from the Coast of Brazil, from Cuba, and from the Gulf of Mexico? Had our cruisers, under these circumstances, been successful in reducing the number of
 218
 Mr. Ward  could not allow this discussion to close without saying, that there was something absolutely unfair on the part of the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster (Captain Rous), in making a distinct charge against the New Zealand Company. He (Mr. Ward) had no connexion with that Company; but he believed they possessed the means of proving that almost every charge made against them had originated in their differences with the Government. When he saw Captain Fitzroy's friends coming forward in this manner, he thought, as an individual perfectly disinterested as to this question, he ought to say, that though there might be no imputation upon the moral character of Captain Fitzroy, or upon his character as
 186
 Sir James Graham  said, he should to-morrow receive a deputation from the parish of Marylebone, on the subject, consisting of the rector and a deputation from the vestry; but at present he knew nothing of the case, except from the accounts in the public papers. When the matter should be brought before him, he would institute an inquiry; but he begged the House and the hon. Member to bear in mind that at present they had only an  ex-parte 176
 Sir J. Graham  had received a letter containing complaints on the subject from Mr. Carus Wilson, as had also his right hon. Friend at the head of Her Majesty's Government; and he (Sir J. Graham) had thought it his duty to send copies of those letters to the Lieutenant Governor of Jersey, and he had directed him to inquire into the accuracy of the allegations contained in them, and to report to him immediately on the subject.
 Sir R. Inglis  had long known Captain Fitzroy, and he fully concurred in every word that had been said in praise of that gallant officer, not only in his public capacity, but in all the relations of private life. Nothing could be purer than the intentions with which he accepted office; and, as far as intentions went, no man could stand more completely exonerated than he did.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that as he had been so pointedly referred to both by word and gesture on the part of the hon. Member for Coventry, he could not refrain from making one or two observations in reply to what had fallen from him. The hon. Member had asked him how he could reconcile the course which he had taken with regard to the present measure, with his acquiescence in the taxation of his Roman Catholic fellow subjects, for the purpose of supporting the religion of others not of that religion? To this he had to reply, that he did not consent to tax the people of the United Kingdom for the support of any one sect; but he consented to expend a portion of the taxes generally levied upon the Church of England, because that Church was not a sect; and he denied the right of any other party to claim the same support. As to the maintenance of a Roman Catholic bishop of Quebec out of the taxes, he had repeatedly stated in that House his reason to be, that eighty years ago, when the province of Canada was annexed to the Crown under a specific Treaty, one of the terms of that
 191
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, that he never saw a case which furnished so many strong arguments against such a Motion as that before the House, as did the project to which it referred. There were in it not less than 300 instances of noncompliance with the Standing Orders. If the House agreed to this Motion, he did not see how it could refuse similar Motions in other cases.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that at an early period he should have no objection to lay on the Table of the House the official documents on the subject. The matter would shortly be brought to a close, and soon after the Whitsun recess he would lay the Papers in question on the Table.
 Sir R. Peel : The question which has been put to me by the hon. Member involves a matter of considerable importance. I apprehend that there is nothing whatever in former acts, nor in the present measure, necessarily imposing an obligation upon the State to provide education exclusively for ministers of the Roman Catholic religion. If the education of
 195 "When we are to provide for the education of any body of men, we ought seriously to consider the particular functions they are to perform in life. A Roman Catholic clergyman is the minister of a very ritual religion, and, by
 196
 Sir R. Peel  said, he was sure the hon. Member would feel that it was not in his power to control the course of any Members of the Administration with respect to any Private Bill. That must necessarily be left to his own sense of duty. But as an exemplification of his own opinion he would state, that when a gentleman much interested in favour of this Bill applied to him, saying that as he (Sir R. Peel) had always expressed a strong interest in Irish railways, he came to solicit his forbearance; he replied that he thought the Order of the Committee a judicious one, and as he had every confidence in the purity of their intentions and the justice of their conduct, he must refuse all interference. He would state also that he that morning had an interview with the Vice President of the Board of Trade on the subject, and being told that although this was a Private Bill, it had been usual for the Vice President of the Board of Trade or some other Member of the Government to support the general authority of Committees of that House; under such circumstances he (Sir R. Peel) requested his right hon. Friend to be in attendance, and vote in favour of the Report of the Standing Orders Committee. That was all he knew on the subject.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he felt great difficulty in giving any assurance as to the time a particular Bill would be brought in. He could, however, assure the hon. Gentleman that it was the intention of the Government that business connected with Ireland should have full consideration. He intended to proceed in the first instance with the Maynooth Grant Bill; and on Friday next his hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department would state to the House the general outlines of the measure which the Government proposed with respect to academical education. He thought it desirable to give that Bill precedence over every other measure, excepting the Maynooth Grant Bill. He was much pressed the other night by the hon. Member for Kerry, who wished to know his intentions with respect to the introduction of a mea-
 175
 Sir R. Peel : Yes.
 Sir R. Peel  said: It is not possible to condemn the noble Lord's observations as
 210 211 212
 Sir T. Fremantle  could not remain silent under the imputation that he came down to that House to use his influence, as a Member of the Government, with respect to this Bill. If the noble Lord had been present, he would have found that the course he took did not justify such imputation. What his hon. Friend the Member for Winchester had stated was true. He stated to the House, that he rose merely as a private individual; that this was a matter on which every man should exercise his own discretion; and that he did not wish to say anything to affect the judgment of any person. He had merely mentioned that he was Secretary for Ireland to show his interest in the subject. He took the course he did, knowing that there was another competing Bill from the east to the west of Ireland; and believing that it was of great importance that they should both go before the Committee, in order that either, or both, might be passed in the present Session.
 Sir T. Fremantle  did not wish that the vote which he should give in this case should influence that of any other hon. Member. He would vote in favour of the Motion. In the situation which he had the honour to hold, he thought it very desirable that every encouragement should be given to projects of this kind in Ireland. He should be very unwilling in ordinary cases to advise the House to decide against the Report of the Committee on Standing Orders; but considering how desirable it was that measures such as that to which the Motion referred should be encouraged in Ireland, he was anxious that both this and the competing line to which the noble Lord (Lord Palmerston) referred, should be sent to a Committee, where their merits might be examined, and both eventually sanctioned by the House if it saw good ground for it. At all events, if the House should extend its indulgence to the line then before them, he trusted it would grant a similar one to the rival line.
 Viscount Castlereagh  said, his question was, whether, in the event of any of those Members who were now in Ireland refusing to attend, the Sergeant-at-Arms would be ordered to take them into custody?
 Viscount Castlereagh  wished to ask the noble Lord what course would be pursued with respect to those Members who had thought fit not to attend this Session; and whether he would be prepared to call on the House to order the Sergeant-at-Arms to take into custody such Members as refused to attend the Railway Committees on which they might be placed by the Committee of Selection, and whether the Sergeant-at-Arms would be sent over to Ireland take Members into custody. He agreed entirely that some understanding ought to be come to as to the mode of enforcing these attendances; and he could
 171
 Viscount Howick  believed that the subject before the House was one of great public importance. It was clear that were they to pursue the course which had been that night adopted, they were in the way of bringing about a state of things which would lead to the most serious consequences. All the abuses of the old system, in reference to the conduct of Private Business, would be revived, if the House were not to determine against the recurrence of such decisions as had been that night agreed to. He had heard the great importance of railways to Ireland urged by hon. Members who had supported the Motion. No one felt that importance more than he did; but important as it was that Ireland should enjoy good railway communication, it was more important still that they should not inflict upon it the evils of a jobbing system of private legislation. By delaying this measure for a year, they would probably be doing Ireland a service; they would be giving it a lesson as to the necessity of adopting the same strictness in the mode of conducting business which was in England. If, however, the Standing Orders, as they at present stood, bore in any way harshly upon the peculiar circumstances of Ireland, then let them mitigate the severity of these rules so far as regarded that country; but let them not come, as they had that night done, and in peculiar isolated cases set aside the decisions of the Standing Orders Committee. Let them reflect upon the consequences of the vote which they had that evening come to. Even supposing the competing Bill to be as faulty as that which had been just discussed, they could not, in common justice to its promoters, refuse it the same indulgence. But this, the first step in a wrong course, ought to be retraced, and it was competent for them
 182
 Viscount Palmerston  rose to put a question on the subject of the claims of certain merchants for compensation, in consequence of the injury sustained by them at Portendic. It was a subject which had often been discussed in that House. He understood the Government of France came to an agreement to refer the question to the Government of Prussia, and that reference having been made, the Government of Prussia had now given its reward. He wished to ask the right hon. Baronet—and as he had not given notice of the question, he should not be surprised if the right hon. Baronet required time to give his answer—he, however, wished to ask him when the Government would be prepared to lay before the House, as he took it for granted they would do, the Papers connected with that subject? He said he took it for granted that they would do so, because not only had the matter been frequently under discussion, but it also involved doctrines on the question of blockade, which might be important to be known to that House. He supposed the Government of the King of Prussia had given some opinion upon those doctrines; and he should wish the right hon. Baronet, either then or at any future time, to answer the question which he had put to him.
 Viscount Palmerston  said: I am led to think that it was just as well that I did
 213
 Viscount Palmerston  said: I am anxious to make a few observations on the subject of the Returns as to the Slave Trade. I first wish to draw attention to the first Return of Vessels, which has not been framed
 200 201 "I referred to Her Majesty's Advocate General your despatches, dated the 15th and 26th of July of last year, together with the previous Correspondence extant in this office on the subject of Barbadoes negroes said to be held in slavery in Surinam. I have now to state to you for your information and guidance that the Queen's Advocate has reported it to be his opinion that Her Majesty's Government is not called upon to take any steps respecting these negroes. The Queen's Advocate observes that if there had been any reason to believe that any of the individuals in question were free-born subjects of Her Majesty, or that they had been emancipated and become free by the abolition of slavery throughout the British dominions, the endeavours of Her Majesty's Government to rescue them from the state of slavery in which they are now held could not have been too urgent or strenuous;—but that it is not the duty of Her Majesty's Government to insist on the liberation of persons, or the descendants of persons, who were removed as slaves into a foreign colony before slavery was abolished by British law, and who have continued as slaves in a foreign country down to the present time. With regard to the individual mentioned in your despatch of the 26th July, 1842, the Queen's Advocate observes that he is stated by you to be a very intelligent man, and to be, moreover, acting in the capacity of head mason with
 202 203 Emancipados. 204 205 206 207 208 209
 Viscount Palmerston  thought that the hon. Member for Kendal did not take all the proper items into his account, in stating the number of slaves who had been emancipated by the endeavours of the British Government. The number to which the hon. Gentleman alluded was the number of those emancipated and landed upon the American coast; but besides this number they had between 60,000 and 70,000 who had been landed at Sierra Leone. The hon. Gentleman should also recollect that a great number of vessels were captured upon the coast of Africa without any slaves on board, and which, if not captured, would have returned laden with cargoes of 500 or 600 slaves a piece. The hon. Gentleman, if he took these things into the account, would find that a much larger per centage of negroes than that which he had just mentioned, were either emancipated from the slave ships, or saved from capture and bondage.
 Viscount Palmerston  felt the force of the objections against interfering with the Committee on Standing Orders; but if it should happen that the House should extend its indulgence to this project by assenting to the Motion before it, he trusted it would, should the case require it, extend a similar indulgence to a rival line—he alluded to the Dublin and Mullingar, Longford and Sligo line. He did not say this from any knowledge that there were any material defects in the plans and surveys of that line; but should there be any, and that project stand in the position in which the present now stood, he did hope it would obtain similar indulgence. For himself, he was disposed to adhere to the Standing Orders.
 Mr. Edward Ellice  moved to substitute Lord Frederick Hallyburton and Mr. David Morris for Mr. Patrick Stewart and Mr. Bickham Escott, on Select Committee on Prisons (Scotland).
 The Solicitor General  did not feel at all hampered in his resistance to this Bill, by having to admit that a clause of the nature alluded to was in a Government Bill of two years ago on Ecclesiastical Courts. Had he been aware that such a clause was in the Bill at that period, he should have opposed it. The first question to be asked with regard to such a measure was, was there any necessity for it? Next, did the members of the profession generally call for it? The hon. and learned Gentleman
 243 de bonis non
 Mr. T. B. C. Smith  said, if the measure was merely to decrease expense, he should not oppose it. But under the guise of a public measure, it was evidently brought in to meet some particular case.
 244
 Mr. Cowper , in moving the Order of the Day for the House to go into Committee on the Field Gardens Bill, said, it was not his intention to proceed  seriatim pro formâ, 245
 Colonel T. Wood  inquired whether this new incorporation was to give a second degree in medicine after a certain number of years?
 Mr. Acland  thought it would be a great evil if such general and violent statements as those made by the hon. Member for Finsbury against the College of Surgeons were to go forth to the country uncontradicted. It was difficult to collect anything very defined from those statements, beyond the oft-repeated cry against the "pure" surgeons. The simple question, however, was, whether or not the science of surgery, for which the College of Surgeons was founded, was not as a distinct subject, one of national importance. He was quite sure that such was the opinion of the leading men in the profession. He did not see, if the 12,000 or 14,000 general practitioners in the country were to elect and be eligible for the council of the College of Surgeons, how a great evil in the excitement of popular feeling and canvassing which would distract the profession, could be avoided; and it might be doubtful whether, under such circumstances, the leading men in the profession would be the governing body. He (Mr. Acland) had had opportunities of ascertaining the opinions of medical men in the metropolis, and he believed that they had generally much more confidence in the College of Surgeons than the hon. Member for Finsbury was disposed to allow. He denied that the College of Surgeons had shown themselves an exclusive body. During the first four years from 1800, 682 persons were admitted by them to diplomas, which showed an average of 134 per annum. During the last five years, however, they had admitted 2,763 persons, an average of 552 per annum. It must be remembered, too, that the application for the diploma of the College was voluntary, not compulsory; therefore the number who had taken diplomas was a proof of the high value in which they were held. The hon. Member said he felt bound to vindicate the conduct of the College. They had only been influenced by a desire to maintain the dignity of the profession, and, at the same time, to obtain the best security for the future advancement and enlargement of the boards medical science.
 Mr. H. Berkeley  wished to say one word in explanation of the course which
 269 Acland 270
 Colonel T. Wood  objected to the separate incorporation of the general practitioners, which would create party feelings and jealousy, against which he did think the House were bound to set their faces. The incorporation would be a mere mockery, because they were to have no power. It would only cause them to look with envy and dislike on the College of Surgeons. As to that College, not only did the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Graham) obstinately refuse any inquiry into the mode in which the charter of the College had been carried out, but he also refused any remedy. The hon. and gallant Member strongly condemned the manner in which the elections to fellowships had been made. The case of Mr. Frogley was a very strong one. The system operated most injuriously on military and naval surgeons: many of them having been absent discharging their duties in distant climates, from the age of 25, would be excluded from the fellowships when they came to settle in the country, after their period of service expired, until they were become superannuated. The officers of the Public Service had never, since the surgeons were separated from the barbers 100 years ago, been considered as apothecaries, and they had always had the right of succeeding according to seniority and merit, if living in London, to the honours of the college, a right which no members who practised as apothecaries possessed. The officers of the Public Service had been deprived of this right. Why? Would the Secretary of State say in what way they had deserved this punishment? He should detail three cases. In the first two, the surgeons had distinguished themselves at Gwalior and Hyderabad, and had merited the thanks of this House. Educated at Westminster School, they were classical scholars, and house surgeons
 271
 An hon. Member  moved that the House be counted; but more than forty Members were found to be present.
 Mr. Bouverie  said, that five or six weeks ago the right hon. Member for Dungarvon had brought on a Motion expressive of the regret of the House at the letters of foreigners having been opened in the Post
 235 236
 Captain Rous  asked, whether the examinations would be public or private?
 Captain Rous  believed all parties wished for the introduction of a Bill that would confer the greatest extent of benefit on the profession. By the Bill of the right hon. Baronet, the members of the council of the College of Surgeons were required to be of fifteen years standing, and they were to be elected by practitioners of ten years' standing; he rose for the purpose of suggesting to the right hon. Baronet that it would be an improvement on that plan that would, he thought, become very popular in the profession, if younger members were to be allowed the elective franchise.
 Lord G. Somerset  could not see how any inconvenience could arise from permitting this Bill to be read a first time. But he hoped the House would seriously consider the subject before they consented to the second reading of the Bill. Before they did that, they should have it determined how far the Standing Orders which applied to English Railway Bills applied also to Irish Railway Bills; and the second reading should be delayed until the Report of that Committee should have been made. If it were attempted to press forward the Bill to a second reading until that Report should have been made, he should feel it his duty to oppose any such Motion.
 Mr. Pringle  contended, as the labours of this Committee were drawing to a close it would be most inconvenient if its Members were changed. He should oppose the Motion.
 Mr. Hawes  thought the right hon. Baronet had taken a satisfactory view of the question; and there was no reason why he should despair of effecting a final settlement. Equality of qualification, combined with equality of privilege, seemed to be the main principle of the Bill. At present, however, he (Mr. Hawes) did
 259
 Mr. Hawes  observed, with reference to the deputation which waited upon the right hon. Baronet, that, had he known that any doubt would have been expressed upon the subject, he would have come down to the House prepared with documentary evidence to show that the deputation did represent a large portion of the medical practitioners. With a few exceptions, he believed they would cordially assent to the adoption of this measure. He hoped the council would be constituted by the Crown. Some efficient control should be exercised over the examinations in the College of Physicians and Surgeons. At the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, it was necessary for the student to undergo a previous examination in arts before procuring his medical degree. The Bill, generally, had his good wishes, and should have his support.
 The Speaker  decided that as the question had been answered, the hon. and gallant Member could not further address the House upon it.
 The Speaker  said, that after the Bill had been read a first time it might be referred back to the Standing Orders Committee.
 Mr. F. French  moved for leave to bring in the Great Western Railway (Ireland) Bill.
 Mr. F. French  said, that all he wished was that the subject should be fairly considered, and for that purpose he was anxious to introduce the Bill. He wanted no unfair advantage, nor did he ask anything unprecedented. In the case of the Croydon Railway Bill, the House had negatived the decision of the Standing Orders Committee by a majority of ninety-five to twenty-two. He trusted that the indulgence which had been extended to an English would not be refused to an Irish railway.
 Mr. Sergeant Murphy : The Government had objected to this Bill as retrospective. Were they prepared with a prospective measure on the subject? Why not compromise the matter, and, having read the Bill a second time, give the attorneys and profession an opportunity of considering it? As to the objection that such a measure was not recommended by the Real Property Commissioners, it was plain they contemplated doing away with assignments altogether; and, therefore, such a recommendation as that referred to was unnecessary. The hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland had admitted there was a case for legislation in the instance cited by the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Scott). If they went into the consideration of the Bill, might not other such cases be supplied?
 Captain Polhill  thanked the right hon. Baronet for the explanation he had given. He was anxious to say a few words—[ cries of
 Captain Polhill  rose to put the question of which he had given notice—namely, to ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, if any communication had taken place between him and the Sheriffs of London, respecting the admission of persons to hear the condemned sermon? And also, whether it is not his opinion that upon a recent occasion the Sheriffs only acted in conformity with their undoubted rights and privileges?
 Mr. Labouchere  thought it desirable that the House should have the Bill before it. It was absolutely necessary to ascertain whether or not the Standing Orders which were applicable to English Railway Bills were also applicable to Irish Railway Bills. Nothing could be more absurd or unjust if there were Standing Orders applicable to Irish Railway Bills, than not to adhere to them. Under all the circumstances, however, he hoped that his hon. Friend would not press his Motion, but would permit the Bill to be read a first time, and then the second reading could be delayed until after the Report of the Committee, to be moved for by his right hon. Friend the Member for Devonport, should be presented.
 Mr. Warburton  had no wish to give unnecessary trouble, and he would, therefore, not object to the first reading of the Bill; but before the second reading came
 231
 Mr. Warburton  said, that this Bill was one which the Standing Orders Committee had reported against, and the hon. Member for Roscommon had induced the House to decide against the Standing Orders Committee. It was proposed that a Select Committee should be appointed to inquire how far the existing Standing Orders with respect to Irish Railway Bills should be dispensed with. It seemed to him that, when the Standing Orders Committee
 230
 Mr. Warburton  withdrew his Motion.
 Mr. Warburton  wished to ask the Speaker if it would be allowable to refer this Bill back to the Standing Orders Committee after it had been read a first time? He apprehended that it would be too late to do so, and, therefore, he thought it should be better to suspend the further progress of the Bill until the Report should have been made.
 Mr. Warburton  resumed: According to the evidence obtained by the Royal Commission to inquire into the management at the Scotch Universities, it appeared that the professors were considered rather lax in their examination of candidates for medical degrees in Edinburgh, because, being paid in proportion to the fees paid, they were interested in the number of persons admitted to degrees. Therefore the provision in Clause 26 of the Bill, which proposed to constitute a joint board, composed partly of the professors of the University and partly of the examiners of Colleges, in order to ascertain the qualification of candidates desirous of becoming general practitioners, took away the security which at present existed in Edinburgh, of the second examination. These, however, were matters which admitted of improvement in the Committee on the Bill. There was nothing in the Bill with respect to the privileges that ought to attach to those who attained a proper degree of education. They must offer rewards in the way of privileges to those who attained a certain standard of education. What were to be the privileges of the general practitioners under the new charter which was to be given them? Would those who were to be examined by the joint board of physicians and surgeons, and by the new corporation of general practitioners, be considered admissible to all situations now held by licentiates of the College of Surgeons? [Sir  J. Graham 268
 Mr. Warburton  said, that, considering the happy unanimity which seemed to prevail on the subject of Medical Reform, he had no doubt that the cause could easily be discovered why he had been induced to abandon the lead on this subject, and leave his mantle to be taken up by the right hon. Gentleman opposite. The Bill had for its objects the establishment of a uniformity of education, examination, and privilege in practice throughout the whole kingdom. The question was, whether the right hon. Gentleman had taken ample security for the accomplishment of those objects. Some of the profession thought not. He feared that, with regard to Scotland, the Bill would have the effect of rendering the system of
 267
 Mr. Roebuck : This Bill was surely retrospective; and from the petitions all coming from one party, the suspicion was raised that it was brought in for a specific object. It was no answer to say that the same clause was in a Government Bill two years ago, for the parties now at work might have smuggled it into that measure.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that the only way to amend the Bill was to strike it all out. He had a great objection to it. He thought it was altogether very suspicious, and, in order to end it at once, he should move as an Amendment that it be committed that day six months. It was far better to do so than to call hon. Members down to that House uselessly to discuss it a second time. He had attended there for the express purpose of entering upon the discussion of its merits, and he had hoped that the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary would have interfered with the further progress of the hon. Member's scheme. He was of opinion that the labouring man ought to be maintained by wages, and by no scheme purporting to have humanity for its basis. The Bill
 246 l. l. 247
 Mr. Roebuck  did not mean, in anything he had said, to impugn the motives of the hon. Gentleman in bringing in this Bill. He believed him to be guided by good motives; and, if the expression of his approbation on that ground was of any worth, he trusted the hon. Member would accept it. After what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, he would not press his Amendment to a division.
 Mr. Brotherton  agreed with what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman. ["Order!"]
 Mr. Hume  thought the Bill should be allowed to go into Committee. Any defects pointed out in it might be then remedied; but these law reforms came in very small bits, and he for one was willing to accept the present measure in that character.
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask whether the principle of the Bill went to give parishes the power of purchasing land? To that he had a very strong objection. If the hon. Member wished to proceed on the present occasion  pro formâ
 Mr. R. Scott  moved the Second Reading of this Bill. He was at a loss to discover why the Ministry should now oppose itself to a clause of the measure, of which it had sanctioned the introduction in the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill. The object of the clause in question was to facilitate the transfer of landed property bequeathed under will when the probate was granted in a Diocesan, while it ought to have emanated from a Prerogative Court. He could not conceive what possible disadvantage could arise from enacting this Bill. To prove the necessity of some such measure being introduced, the hon. Gentleman cited the case of a will made in 1755, under which an assignment for a small amount had been twice transferred; but some sharp attorney having discovered that probate in the Prerogative Court was necessary, the party entitled to the property in 1844 had to come to London, to take out probate. He hoped the Government would, at all events, allow the Bill to go into Committee.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  was sure that no Gentleman would wish an hon. Member, to make a apology or retract an accusation unless that hon. Member were satisfied in his own mind that the individual injured deserved to have that apology or retractation made to them. He, therefore, thought that the right hon. Gentleman was right not to have apologised until he had been so satisfied. He thought, however, that the right hon. Gentleman had had reason to complain of the persons who had placed in his hand the newspaper, the  Moniteur, Moniteur 239 travaux forces,
 Mr. T. Duncombe  had not intended to impute any unnecessary delay to the right hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that in his belief the peculiar circumstances of Ireland had had nothing to do with the recent decision of the House, as the argument was not used by the hon. Member for Roscommon, who introduced the Motion. He could not see how the public could have any confidence in the proceedings of that House, if, upon one day, they decide that a Bill should not be proceeded with, and upon another decide that a question should be referred to a Committee, to the effect that an inquiry should be made to ascertain whether the decisions of the House were erroneous, for that in reality was the question.
 Mr. Granger  said, it was extraordinary that the Solicitor General did not object to this clause in the Government Bill. [The  Solicitor General:
 Mr. Greene  thought that great inconvenience would result from delay. He thought it was hardly fair to the promoters of the Bill to keep this threat of opposition hanging over them. He would rather that the House should vote that all further proceedings should be suspended until the Report of the Committee to be moved by the hon. Member for Devonport should have been made.
 Mr. Macaulay  conceived that the general principles of the Bill were uniformity of privilege and qualification. These principles he considered to be those on which any Bill seeking to re-establish the medical profession in this country, should rest. He had formerly expressed his approbation of those principles, and he would repeat that approbation now. As to the particular points of the Bill introduced by the right hon. Gentleman, they could discuss them with greater advantage, and with better effect, when an opportunity had been afforded of considering them, and also of ascertaining the public opinion respecting them; for as the principal object of the provision introduced by the
 276 277
 Mr. Wakley  observed that the right hon. Gentleman said that he was convinced that this measure would ultimately satisfy the great body of English practitioners; if this was likely to be the case, he would not be the person to do anything to prevent it. It was true that he had attended a meeting last night of general practitioners. The committee of that meeting was 72 in number, and contained the names of many most respectable persons; and that committee was the whole Court of Examiners of Apothecaries' Hall, besides other gentlemen connected with the Society of Apothecaries. He should not say anything disrespectful of them; but he was informed for the first time last night that they intended to go for a separate incorporation, and every step that they had hitherto taken had been with that object. He was not aware of this, and it, therefore, led to some misunderstanding; but there was no violence at the meeting, but merely such a manifestation as arises in a public meeting when a strong difference of opinion occurs. The law declared that at the age of twenty-two a man should be deemed perfectly qualified in every branch of medical science; but when he came to be twenty-six years of age, something curious happened to him. During the progress of four years he would be losing his medical knowledge, and would then only be deemed qualified to act as a surgeon. Was it practicable that such an arrangement could be carried out? He trusted the right hon. Geotleman would not adhere to it.
 Mr. Wakley  differed entirely in opinion from the hon. Member for Lambeth. He was inclined to believe that the alterations in the Bill which the right hon. Gentleman had announced would be productive throughout the profession of the greatest possible dissatisfaction. The hon. Member for Lambeth might be better acquainted than he was with the feeling of the profession; but he had had an intimate intercourse with them for the past twenty years, and was in the habit of hearing from them daily from most parts of the kingdom; and his conviction was that they would
 260
 Mr. Wakley : Then, in that case, of what value would the new incorporation be to the general practitioners? It would be the mockery of a benefit, and nothing more. Under the Bill, as it formerly stood, the general practitioner was to derive his right from one examination instituted by the College of Physicians, assisted by a Board of Examiners of the Apothecaries' Society, and the College of Surgeons. That was a more simple arrangement than the present; now, every man before he could practise in England must go before the College of Physicians, or the College of Surgeons, or both, in the first instance. [Sir  J Graham: 261 262 263 l. 264 J. Graham: J. Graham: 265 J. Graham: J. Graham: 266 Graham; J. Graham; l.
 Mr. Alderman Copeland  expressed a hope that the right hon. Baronet would extend the inquiry to the last two or three of those melancholy occasions. Unfortunately there was a morbid appetite prevailing to witness such exhibitions, and the importunity of persons for admission when cases of this kind occurred exceeded anything that could be imagined. On the late occasion of the trial of Hocker, and subsequently, the importunities by which the magistrates of the city of London were beset by persons of every class, not only for admission to witness the trial, but to be present at the execution, were beyond anything that could be conceived. And while this morbid appetite continued, and
 234
 Sir G. Grey  did not see why the Standing Orders should be dispensed with. At the proper time it was his intention to move for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire whether any, and which, of the Standing Orders in force with respect to railways in Great Britain, were unnecesary, and ought to be dispensed with in respect to railways in Ireland. He thought that the House ought not to adopt the present Bill until the Motion he intended to make had been considered, and the Committee had come to some decision upon the subject. He thought they should read the Bill a first time, and then postpone the second reading to a future day.
 Sir James Graham  said: Mr. Speaker, in answer to the first part of the hon. and gallant Member's question, I have to state that not only on my part, but on the part
 233
 Sir James Graham : The hon. Member who has just sat down gave me notice, in a private note, yesterday, that he meant to put the question to me with which he has just concluded. I am sorry that the hon. Member has not confined himself to merely putting that question; but it does so happen, that even had it not been put at all, it would have been my duty this night to have made a statement to the House upon the subject. I think that it was upon Monday last, that the hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie), and the hon. Member for Finsbury communicated with me in private in reference to this matter and I stated to them, what was then strictly true, that I was not at that time in a condition to make a statement which would be satisfactory either to them or to Mr. Mazzini himself. In consequence of a question put to me by the hon. Member for Bolton (Dr. Bowring), however, I did think it my duty, in regard to truth and justice, to institute—through my noble Friend the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs—an inquiry in a quarter from which I thought I would be most likely to obtain correct information upon the subject. That inquiry I did institute; and, until yesterday, the information which I received, so far from shaking my impression as to Mr. Mazzini's guilt, tended rather to confirm it. Not yet satisfied, however, with the quarter from which these inquiries were
 237 Moniteur. 238
 Sir James Graham  observed that the hon. Gentleman seemed to think that his explanation came rather late. Now, he was most anxious that the House should do him the justice to believe that it was made at the very first moment at which he could by any possibility bring it forward. He was in possession of a letter from Lord Cowley, the British Ambassador at Paris, dated May 2, containing the answer of the Judge who tried Gavioli, and which answer had been sent by the Minister of the Interior to Lord Cowley, by whom it had not been received until the 1st of May. Lord Cowley's letter was dated the next day, the 2nd of May. He also held in his hand a note from his noble Friend the Secretary for the Foreign Department, observing that the Papers received yesterday from Lord Cowley, copies of which he enclosed to him, were of a different tendency from those formerly communicated to the embassy at Paris, by the prefect of police. Had the House sat yesterday, he assured them that he would have lost not a moment in bringing the matter under their notice.
 Sir James Graham  would feel himself bound to vote against the second reading of the Bill if pressed to a division, as a measure retractive in its character, general in its operation, and introduced to meet a special case.
 Sir J. Graham : I am, Sir, about to ask the House to recommit this Bill, with the view of introducing into it some important alterations; and I may perhaps be excused when I say, that if I could have anticipated the extensive difficulties of this subject, I should not probably have presumed to interfere with it; but having bestowed much labour and attendon
 250 pro formâ, 251 252 253 254 255 Warburton; 256 curriculum intra urbem, ultra urbem. 257 extra urbem; pro formâ, 258
 Sir J. Graham  really hoped that the hon. and learned Member for Bath would not press his Amendment to a division,
 248 pro formâ 249 s. s. s. s.
 Sir J. Graham  said, the details of these regulations were to be the subject of bylaws, which must receive the sanction of the Secretary of State.
 Sir J. Graham  answered, that it was not. The general practitioner must, before he could become such, pass a double examination; before the mixed Board of Surgeons and Physicians in the first instance, without whose  initiat
 Sir J. Graham  said it was not; but he had no objection to state the outlines of it. He proposed that the council should consist of forty-eight members; that the qualification should be fifteen years of general practice; that the constituent body, voting for the election of the council, should be general practitioners of ten years' standing; and with regard to the council, that there must be the double qualification for the last fifteen years of membership of the College of Surgeons, and also of the Apothecaries' Company.
 Sir J. Graham  said, the hon. Member for Finsbury had misunderstood him. The Bill provided that any person passing the necessary examination in Ireland or Scotland before the Joint Board of the College of Physicians and the College of Surgeons of the two countries respectively, should be entitled to be registered as a general practitioner throughout the United Kingdom; and no power was transferred from the Apothecaries' Act of prosecuting parties so registered for practising.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that now the Speaker had left the Chair, he wished to
 272 273 274
 Sir James Graham  said, that as to the absurdity—as it was said—of students of twenty-two years of age being deemed qualified upon examination, he thought that was not too early an age to allow persons, having studied the profession, and undergone successfully the ordeal of an examination, being entitled to commence practice. But the chief absurdity, as the hon. Gentleman said, was that, after four year'
 275
 Sir James Graham  did not think that the nomination of the Council of Health ought to be in the Crown.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the noble Lord having given him notice of his intention to ask the questions which he had put, he had made inquiry at the Foreign Office as to the transaction referred to. The noble Lord had quoted—of course correctly—the Article of the Treaty of Washington, as to representations and remonstrances to be made by the Governments of Great Britain and the United States to
 241 242
 Sir R. Peel  said, that he would not by any means vote for this Bill if by so doing he was likely to throw the slightest reflection on the Standing Orders Committee. He thought there was a general impression on both sides of the House that the Standing Orders Committee had done their duty with respect to this Bill; and if he had been in the House when the Motion of the hon. Member for Roscommon was under discussion, he (Sir R. Peel) would have supported the decision of the Committee. The House had, however, taken another course, and had allowed this Bill to be brought in. In the course of the debate on a former evening it was
 232
 Sir W. Clay  wished to know whether the draft of the new charter was now to be laid upon the Table?
 Viscount Palmerston  observed that as to the first question, as it appeared that the Government of the United States had made remonstrances in execution of the Article of the Treaty of Washington referred to, he presumed that there would be no difficulty in obtaining a diplomatic communication of these remonstrances from that Government, and in laying them before the House. If the remonstrances had been joint, as was the literal construction of the Treaty, they would have been laid on the Table of the House as a matter of course; but being conformable to the Treaty in spirit, although not in form, he still did not see that there could be any obstacle to their production.
 Viscount Palmerston  wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government—it was one which he had put the other night, and which as the right hon. Baronet was not then prepared
 240 "Whereas, notwithstanding all the efforts which may be made upon the coast of Africa for the suppression of the Slave Trade, while the facilities for carrying on that traffic by the fraudulent use of flags are so great, and the temptations for pursuing it when markets can be found are so strong, that the desired result may be long delayed, unless all the markets now open be shut up against the purchase of African negroes—the parties to the Treaty do therefore agree to unite in all becoming representations to, and remonstrances with, any and all of the Powers within whose dominions such markets are allowed to exist, and that they will urge on all such Powers the propriety and duty of closing such markets fully, at once and for ever." "The high contracting parties agree to invite those maritime Powers of Europe which have not yet concluded Treaties for the abolition of the Slave Trade, to accede to the present Treaty,"
 Sir W. James  rose to second the Motion, which had been brought forward in a manner, and supported by arguments, which did great credit to the hon. Mover. The concession, if made by Her Majesty's Government, would be perfectly in accordance with the Colonial policy of the Government, more particularly as instanced in the case of the late concession to the Canadas with respect to its exports of corn to the mother country. The boon was one demanded by justice; and he should not hesitate to say, that it would be worthy of the policy of this Government to unite this country and its Colonies into one zollverein, for the protection of mutual interests. The Colonists were always our best friends; and if we looked to them for favour, support, and protection, in return we must afford them the same. It might be thought that the seconder of the Motion ought to have entered into the question of agriculture and the Corn Laws, but he would not do so. All he asked for was a simple, straightforward act of justice.
 Mr. Bernal  said, the uncertainty of the decisions of that House in these matters affected the value of railway shares, and promoted jobbing.
 Mr. J. S. Wortley  observed, that the merits of the Bill were not before the House; the Motion was merely for a Committee to inquire into the application of the Standing Orders to Ireland.
 Mr. A. S. O'Brien  commenced by observing, that it was not a little extraordinary the hon. Gentleman should not have adhered to his own maxim of arguing the question on its own merits. Instead of sticking to the immediate argument, the hon. Gentleman had gone back several years, and introduced almost every item whereon they (the agricultural party) had happened to differ from him. The hon. Member, in endeavouring to prove how often the agricultural mind had deluded itself with unfounded alarms, had referred to the importation of cutch from India, which the hon. Member declared had frightened the agricultural mind into the idea that it would lower the price of their bark. Now he was reminded by this that the agricultural mind was not the only one that had at times been affected with such fears. The cotton mind had been harassed with unfounded fears. The cotton trade sent up a deputation to Government ex-presing apprehensions of the injury they would sustain by the importation of cotton from India. Their apprehensions were not attended to; their remonstrances met with resistance; all restrictions were removed, and no evil consequences had followed. It did not follow from this that the removal of restrictions would in no instance be attended by evil; but they might read a lesson in the circumstance teaching them to view the bearings of great measures, not in reference to theories, or hard and cruel dogmas, but to view them in reference to the various practical circumstances that must guide all who wished to be sound statesmen. He, in reply to some of the taunts thrown out against the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, must say he considered that the right hon. Gentleman was not at all pledged, either by the Canada Corn Bill or any of his measures, to resist, or not to propose, any subsequent modification in them. He had ever protested against immediate and unconditional free trade; but it was not, he believed, the first or second time he had stated that if called on to pledge himself against any future modification whatever of these acts, he would, by compliance with such a call, be departing from justice and common sense as widely, but not more so, than if, without reference to the complex state of society, he had declared that the law should be immediately repealed. Now,
 323 Colonial Observer 324 s.
 Mr. J. S. Wortley  said, that if he could think that by voting for the Motion of the hon. Member for Gateshead he should be paying a debt of justice to Australia, he would have as little hesitation as the right hon. Member for Portsmouth in supporting the Motion, But he (Mr. Wortley)
 318 s. d. viâ s. s. viâ s. 319 s. s.
 Captain Rous  said, that the Motion of the hon. Member for Gateshead appeared to him so just, so sensible, and so consistent with the decision which the House had already arrived at in reducing the duties on Canadian wheat, that he could not conceive it possible for any Member who voted for the former proposal to turn short round and record his vote against the present proposal. Intimately connected as he was with the county of Suffolk—a purely agricultural district—if he really thought that the agricultural interests of that county would be injured by the free introduction of wheat from the Australian Colonies, he should be the last man to advocate the measure; but if Parliament thought it just and desirable to admit Canadian corn on favourable terms—if from a country into which American flour and wheat could be smuggled to any amount—if from Colonies inhabited by a mixed population of Indians, Americans, and Frenchmen, one-third of whom would as soon be under the Yankee stripes or the tricolour as the union jack,—if from Colonies where rebellion had often reared its head, and which had cost the mother country millions, England had relaxed her protectional duties on wheat; how much more reason existed for acceding to the petitions of their fellow countrymen in the Australian Colonies, where no foreign wheat could be smuggled, where the blood of the British nation was unmixed, where loyally and affection to Great Britain were inherent in their hearts, and where the cry of rebellion had never been heard? He begged the House, therefore, not to damp the natural affections of that Colony to the mother country by an act of injustice, nor to wait till they showed symptoms of discontent, before it showed a disposition to appease them by concessions of tardy justice. A
 310 s. s. d. s. d. s. s. s. 311
 Lord Granville Somerset  would not oppose the Motion of the right hon. Baronet. The doubt in this matter should be cleared up to the satisfaction of the House. Allegations had been made as to peculiarity of circumstances in the case of Ireland, of the truth of which, if correct, the House should be satisfied. If it should be proved that peculiar hardships existed from enforcing the Standing Orders, from peculiarity of tenure, or other circumstances in Ireland, it was but right that the House should take into consideration the matter contemplated by the Motion of the right hon. Baronet.
 Mr. Newdegate  acknowledged that he felt deeply impressed with the recommendation of the noble Lord to Her Majesty's Government, that they should not grant to turbulence what they refused to peaceable and orderly conduct. He hoped the suggestion would come home to the right hon. Baronet. But, at the same time, he considered that the right hon. Baronet had exhibited on this occasion great regard to the feelings of those who had long and constitutionally supported his Government and the country in the hours of trial, like the year 1842, when, among other classes, the same feelings did not predominate. He wished, however, to call the serious attention of the right hon. Baronet to the large preparations that were being made for the importation of flour from Canada to this country—for the importation of a much larger quantity than Canada could possibly produce, and which must therefore come through that Colony from the United States.
 Mr. F. French  said, that if the Motion of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Devonport stood alone, he would not say a word on the subject; but, coupled as it was with the Motion of the hon. Member for York (Mr. J. S. Wortley), which followed it in the Notices of Motion, by which it was proposed to send to the Committee now moved for, "The Report of the Sub-Committee on Petitions for Private Bills on the Great Western (Ireland) Railways Bill"—coupling those two Motions together, he could not but express his deep regret at this attempt to upset the decision to which the House had come the other evening with respect to the Great Western Railway Bill. He was the more confirmed in his belief that such was the object of the two Motions, when he considered that the proposed reference was to a Committee of fifteen Members, eight of whom had already voted against the Bill. Hon. Members had talked of the Committee on Standing Orders as if the decisions of that Committee were infallible; though it was a matter of notoriety that they had been reversed on many occasions by the House, whose power to do so nobody would deny. That the House possessed the authority of reversing the decisions of the Standing Orders Committee, was beyond doubt. In the very useful and able work of Mr. May, on the Proceedings and Usages of Parliament, it was stated—
 "That if the Committee report that the Standing Orders ought not to be dispensed with, their decision was generally fatal to the Bill, although no reasons were ever assigned
 287 288
 Mr. F. French , in explanation, denied that there had been any violations of the Standing Orders with respect to the Bill, and this could be put beyond doubt.
 Mr. Shaw  objected to the proposed Committee, which he was sure would end in nothing, and it would be found that
 289
 Mr. Darby  said, that when the Canada Bill was brought forward it was stated that it had been introduced on speific grounds, and that the other Colonies were not to expect a similar measure, inasmuch as they stood in a totally different situation. He thought the present proposal was a sort of a much ado about nothing. He could
 314 315
 Sir H. W. Barron  did not see why there should be so much discussion in reference to this particular Bill. There was no practical difference, except that this was an Irish Bill, while the others were English Bills, between this case and the case of the other five or six Bills, on account of which the decision of the Standing Orders Committee had been reversed within the last five or six years. The only parties who would be injured by the infraction of the Standing Orders were the proprietors of the land in the line of the railway, and these parties were favourable to the Bill.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, he opposed the Canada Corn Bill when it was introduced, and subsequent reflection had not altered his opinion with respect to that measure. He thought then and now that it was undesirable to raise up protected interests, in regard to corn, in British America. He believed the time would come when certain
 308 309
 Mr. Warburton  was favourable to the appointment of the Committee. Certain allegations having been made, an opportunity of proving them should be afforded.
 Mr. Bright  said, the hon. Member who had just resumed his seat concluded his speech by saying that with these views he should, however reluctantly, give his vote against the measure. But what the views of the hon. Gentleman were, he could not in any way find out. He thought he might, without running much risk, say, that nine out of ten of those hon. Members who had heard that speech were unable to say, distinctly, what the views of the hon. Gentleman were upon this question. He (Mr. Bright) always watched the rising of that hon. Member, because he wished to learn what was the sort of speech he intended to make; for although he confessed that, as a rule, he found the greatest difficulty to tell, while hearing the speech of the hon. Gentleman, what opinion he had formed upon the subject under discussion, yet he had not the smallest difficulty in telling which way the hon. Gentleman would vote. From the hon. Gentleman's speech of to-night, it would appear that his faith had
 320 321 "Its strength was weakened by its very limping." 322
 Mr. W. Patten  said, that the observations of the hon. Member for Roscommon might have better been reserved for the Motion of which his hon. Friend the Member for York had given notice. He thought that the House should first decide whether they would have the Select Committee, and it would then be time enough to point out any particular course or duty to it. He cordially concurred in the Motion for the Select Committee.
 Mr. M. Gibson  said, that the hon. and gallant Member had taken a very sound view of the question before the House, and knowing how much that hon. Member was looked up to and respected by the agriculturists of Suffolk, he felt persuaded that the course which he had stated it to be his intention to take on the present occasion, and the reasons by which he had vindicated it, would have the effect of quieting those alarms which the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir G. Clerk) felt so much anxiety about. He could not, however, help thinking that the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Board of Trade was a little premature in his declaration of hostility to his hon. Friend's measure; and he had hoped, and he still did continue to hope, that the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government would give his assent to the Motion of the hon. Member for Gateshead. Such a course of proceeding would not be unusual nor unprecedented; for when the hon. Member for Lambeth brought forward a Motion for a slight modification of the Sugar Duties Bill, the right hon. Baronet opposite, the present Vice President of the Board of Trade, rose and gave a precipitate negative to his hon. Friend's proposal, whilst the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Treasury almost immediately afterwards rescinded the determination expressed by his Colleague, and the proposition was subsequently carried. He hoped that course would be again pursued on the present occasion. The arguments of the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Clerk) were of a most extraordinary character. They might be official arguments. They might, for ought he knew, be arguments drawn forth from their concealment in the pigeon holes of the Board of Trade, which his hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton had once alluded to. But they were
 312 313
 Sir C. Napier  said, it would be in the recollection of the right
 290 "The younger Bandiera, under an apprehension that he would be arrested at Trieste, obtained a false passport, and under the name of Consigli, got on board an Austrian steamer, and arrived at Corfu on the 6th of February, remained some weeks, went to Malta, and returned in April. The elder Bandiera deserted the Austrian service in Smyrna, retired to Athens, and met his brother at Corfu in April, where they lived quietly in great retirement, at the house of an Italian priest. Rieciotti, a native of Forli, arrived at Corfu on the 6th of June; he became acquainted with the Bandieras, and against his judgment was persuaded to go with them on their proposed enterprise—got up in a few days, they pretending that they had received important intelligence from Italy of revolutionary movements. Without any previous rumour or preparation, they left the island at night in two boats, reached a Turkish vessel four miles from the port, and had sailed twelve hours before their departure was discovered. The Austrian, Papal, and Neapolitan Consuls, applied to Lord Seaton to request that the fugitives might be pursued and arrested, and that the  Medea Medea, 291 judice de pace 292
 Mr. F. T. Baring  considered this was a question of justice to one of the Colonies. They were bound to deal with their Colonial possessions on principles of equality. They had given certain privileges to Canada, and could not refuse to grant the same when demanded by another Colony. He had contended against the grant of those privileges to the Canadians, but the moment they were given to the Canadians the principle was admitted, and we could not injustice deny to others what we had allowed to them. The Vice President of the Board of Trade objected to the Motion, because it was not extended to all the other Colonies; he admitted the principle as applicable to all; but he thought his hon. Friend had exercised a wise discretion in confining it to Australia, because that Colony had asked for the concession. They had repeated expressions of opinion from the colonists in request of the measure, as well from the Legislative Council as from the inhabitants, under the sanction of the Governor's approbation. The colonists preferred their prayer in the most respectful manner, and the House could not in justice slight it. The right hon. Gentleman opposite had represented this as a matter of very small importance,
 316 317
 Sir G. Clerk  said, the hon. Member for Gateshead was quite correct in anticipating that his Motion would be opposed; and although he gave a silent vote on the last occasion when the question was under discussion, he was not at all indisposed to state the reasons which induced him to give a decided negative to the proposition now under discussion. He thought the hon. Member had greatly exaggerated the benefits which he imagined the colonists of Australia would derive from the success of his Motion. He was well aware that during the last year the situation of the colonists had created great sympathy, and that the depreciation in the price of agricultural produce had reduced many to a state of insolvency. It was not unnatural for persons in their situation to apply through their Legislative Assembly to the Government of this country for the same
 305 d. s. s. 306 s. d. s. s.? s. d. s. s. s. s., s., s. s. 307
 Sir G. Grey  observed, that the substance of the Motion of which he had given notice had been partially discussed in the House the night before, when it appeared that the House thought that some Motion of the nature of that which he intended to propose was desirable. It was far from being his intention to throw any obstacle in the way of the construction of railways in Ireland; on the other hand, he was favourable to the proper promotion of such schemes for the internal improvement of that country. In regard to the Standing Orders at present in force, no difficulty had been found, so far as the English and Scottish railways were concerned, in complying with them. In Ireland, however, as had been formerly stated, there were peculiar circumstances and local disadvantages which rendered it next to impossible to adhere to some of these Orders. He thought that the best way in which to encourage the promotion of railway schemes in Ireland, was not to bind down the promoters of such schemes to an accidental majority in a Committee. A few clear and explicit rules should be laid down for their government in all cases; and such, when adopted, should be generally adhered to. The Standing Orders, as they at present stood, however, he was led to believe, might be found in many instances inapplicable to Ireland; and he should, therefore, move—
 "That a Select Committee be appointed to
 286
 Mr. Ward  said, the decision to which the House had come the other night had produced a most unfavourable impression upon all who were interested in railway property; and he thought they were bound in that case to carry out rigorously the principles which they had adopted with regard to railway legislation. The House had no choice but to rescind its former Resolution.
 Mr. Ward  referred to the immense admissions made on the other side in the course of this debate, especially by the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire (Mr. S. Wortley), who had said that it would have been much better for the country had the Corn Laws never been enacted. On this point alone he had been clear; and on others his views were so obscure and clouded, that it was not wonderful that the hon. Member for Durham (Mr. Bright), in endeavouring to follow him, had wandered from the immediate question into the general subject of the Corn Laws. The hon. Member for Northampton (Mr. S. O'Brien) had stated that the cotton mind had been once needlessly alarmed. This was true; but its alarm had produced no effect. The cotton mind did not assemble its forces in the rear of the Minister of the day, consequently it had not been listened to, and it was left to get over its fears as well as it could. The hon. Member had also said that he would not pledge himself to an eternal refusal of justice; he was satisfied with a refusal of justice at the present moment; and year after year, when the justice of any claim was made as apparent as now, he would have an opportunity of assuring the House that he was not for eternal injustice, but thought that the time for a remedy had not yet arrived. It seemed, according to that hon. Member,
 325 l. 326
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, that no one would venture to controvert the doctrine of the hon. Member for Roscommon—that the Standing Orders Committee were not so infallible as that the House would not reverse their decisions. No doubt the House would reverse the decisions of that or any other Committee, except Election Committees, from which there was no appeal to the House. But in the case of a railway project, in which there had been not less than 306 non-compliances with the Standing Orders, thirty-three of which were vital, he did think the House should require a very strong case to be made out before it would set aside the decision of the Committee on Standing Orders. It was said that the peculiar tenure of land in Ireland rendered the service of notices more difficult than in this country; but if that were so, let the Committee devise some means of giving to all Bills the same extent of privileges.
 Sir R. Peel  said: Sir, I cannot think the hon. Member who has just sat down has taken a course very likely to induce hon. Members on this side, who might be wavering in their views on this question, to give their votes in favour of the present proposition. Other hon. Members who have preceded him on that side have said that the apprehensions respecting the introduction of Canadian corn were groundless. The hon. Member expects the free importation of American corn through Canada, without payment of duty. Other Gentlemen who preceded him have assuaged the alarm felt on this side, and have invited their support at the present moment on the ground that their apprehensions with respect to Canadian corn are entirely unfounded. The hon. Member, addressing himself to this side of the House, expresses his satisfaction that his anticipations will be entirely realised, and that an immense importation will take place into this country, not of Canadian corn, but of American corn smuggled into Canada, and avoiding the duty. [Mr.  Ward: 327 Ward: "That the present corn law tends to check improvement in agriculture, produces uncertainty in all farming speculations, and holds out to the owners and occupiers of lands prospects of special advantage which it fails to secure; that this House will take the said laws into consideration, with a view to such cautious and deliberate arrangements as may be most beneficial to all classes of Her Majesty's subjects." 328 s. s., s. s., s. s., s. s. s., s. 329 330 "I cannot consent to admit the produce of Canada at a low nominal duty into this country; but if you, for the first time, will impose a duty upon American wheat brought into Canada, I then will propose as part of the general arrangement of the Corn Laws, that Canadian Corn produce shall be admitted here at a duty of 1 s. s. 331 s., 332 Hutt: s. 333
 Mr. Hutt : I cannot say that I am astonished at the rejection of my Motion by the Government. I partly expected that they would adhere with fatal consistency to the error of last Session, and oppose me in the matter. The right hon. Gentleman (Sir R. Peel) says that I have allowed my mind to be so much taken up with this subject, that I have overrated its importance. With all humility, I will admit
 339 340
 Mr. Hutt , having presented a petition from persons interested in land in Australia, praying for the admission of corn, the produce of that country, at the same rate of duty as Canada corn was now subject to, spoke as follows:—I am about to bring under the consideration of the House a proposal for modifying the duty now charged on Colonial grain. This proposal was submitted to the House last year, and rejected by a considerable majority of votes. It may share no better fate on the present occasion. I think it right, however, that the House should be aware that there are some very strong reasons for entertaining it, and that, if rejected, its rejection, which is certain to be regarded by some thousands of our countrymen in another hemisphere, as an act of injustice and misgovernment, will involve all who concur in it in a serious responsibility. In the terms of my present Motion, no reference is made to South Africa, to India, or to any other of our Colonial possessions. I have adopted this course because I have wished to raise the question in its simplest form, and because I know that whenever the Legislature shall be persuaded to make this concession to Australia, it must make it at the same time to the other corn-producing dependencies of the Crown. Now, before I state the case to the House, I would wish to observe that there appears to exist in the minds of some Members of the House a strange misconception of the duties they
 293 294 s. 295 s. d. 296 Gladstone 297 298 "One of the causes of the depression and pecuniary distress in this Colony is the ruinous low price of the produce of the soil. Cattle imported from Port Philip, and other parts of New South Wales, displace Colonial cattle, and render native cattle of little value. Sheep, also, for food, are of little value; and we are supplied from New South Wales in abundance. It is only the wool of the flock which is of any value, and for which large flocks are kept by the settlers." "If your Lordship wishes to confer a boon upon this Colony, which would tend greatly, if not entirely, to remedy the evils under which this Colony is suffering, and which would indirectly invigorate and tell through all the arteries and veins of this country, you could not fix upon a gift more beneficial and just than the permitting the wheat of this country, not only to have the same favour shown to it as is shown to the wheat of Canada, but to allow it to be imported into England duty free. The voyage from Canada as compared with that from this country, is short; and great frauds, by the introduction of American wheat under the pretence of its being Canadian, are unavoidable. From Adelaide the voyage is four months, or longer; the insurance high; and no other wheat could be introduced into England as Australian wheat, but it must be  bonâ fide "The two great staple products of this island are wool and wheat. Wool now fetches a full price in the market, and the late accounts from England of the rise in its value has inspired a spirit and confidence in the settlers of a most beneficial character. Wheat, however, of which this great country could grow an endless quantity, and that too of the first quality and description, is a low and losing adventure: the price (3 s. 299 s. 300 301 302 303 304 "That this House do resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House, for the purpose of considering the following Resolution: That it is expedient to permit Grain and Flour, the produce of Australasia, to be imported into the United Kingdom on payment of the same amount of Duty as is now levied on Grain and Flour the produce of Canada."
 Viscount Howick  said: I wish to ask the House whether there is any hon. Member who has listened to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, and has not felt for him the sincerest compassion, under the severe and painful task which has been put upon him this night? I own that, in my experience in this House, I have never heard a speech made by a Gentleman standing in his high position, which did so fill me with shame as that of the right hon. Gentleman. Now, what are the grounds upon which this Motion has been resisted? Can you have listened to that speech, knowing the right hon. Baronet's ability—with what power he can bring before this House every argument, and everything which has the semblance of an argument, which bears upon the case that he has in hand—can you have listened, I say, to that speech, and entertain a doubt as to the real justice of the case? I will endeavour, very humbly, to follow the right hon. Baronet in his remarks upon this question. How did he begin? Why, by endeavouring to get up a laugh at the terms of a Resolution which is not before us, but which is to be proposed by my noble Friend the Member for the city of London. He says, that we are going to discuss the general principle of the Corn Laws. I hope that we shall continue to discuss the general question of the Corn Laws. But we all know perfectly well how any division upon that subject will
 334 s. "We are perfectly willing to grant to Canada, as a Colony and an integral part of the British Empire, the benefit of bringing in her corn, but we do not intend this boon to be applied to American corn; we wish to have a security that that corn, under the name of Colonial, shall not be introduced as if it were British grown corn. With that view we required a duty of 3 s. 335 336 337 338
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell , as one who had pursued his studies in the Dublin University, begged leave to set the right hon. Member for that University right as to some matters of fact. The right hon. Member's misapprehension was to be ac-
 397
 Mr. A. B. Hope  was anxious to address to the House a few words; the rather as he had not expressed, and did not intend to express his sentiments on what he might call the main question, of which this was only a branch, the Maynooth Bill. Without going into the arguments on that subject, he might say that he did not think any principle was involved in the difference between the present or the former grants. But the present course taken by Her Majesty's Government was to introduce a perfectly new system. The House of Commons was called upon to adopt a new system for the first time. The Universities of London and of Durham had been founded by royal charter; but now the Members of Her Majesty's Government—the Conservative Government—who he did not think had, in 1835, either individually or as a body, showed any favourable feeling towards the London University—now they were coming before Parliament and asking them to sanction two Universities in Ireland upon the same lax system as the University of London. This was the first time that Parliament had been called upon to sanction this system either in England or in Ireland. He wished to see Trinity College, Dublin, extended by the addition of three Colleges; but they should be homogeneous and Protestant in their character, or they would be dangerous to the stability of that ancient establishment. Without entering into the subject of the opposition
 400 l. l.
 Mr. Acland  thought the hon. and learned Member for Bath had very unjustly attacked the hon. Baronet the Member for Oxford. Nothing could be more misplaced and undeserved than his accusation that the hon. Baronet was influenced by a spirit of unkindness and personal vanity; it was most unfounded, not to say ludicrous. He did not regret the responsibility of having cheered that expression of the hon. Baronet, in which he described
 405
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that though he admitted that the present system was in some respects inconvenient, he doubted much whether the proposed plan would not cause a greater evil than that which it sought to remedy. The subject had been much discussed in the Committee of Selec-
 344
 Mr. Lefroy  had not intended to express any opinion upon the Bill introduced that night by Her Majesty's Government at its present Stage; and he was only induced to do so in consequence of the line of argument and the religious view of the question which had been taken by his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford. In consequence of the observations made by his hon. Friend, as well as some other
 398 399
 Mr. Ross , on his own part and that of his constituents, expressed his thanks for
 375
 Mr. E. B. Roche  received this measure with great thankfulness, because it tended to enlighten the middle class. The great
 376 l. l. 377
 Mr. Shaw  seconded the Amendment. He had been a Member of the Select Committee, by which the new constitution of Railway Committees for the present Session had been recommended; and he had anticipated the difficulty that had arisen in the case of the York group by the Committee being reduced to four members. The hon. Member for East Retford (Mr. Vernon) had not stated quite correctly the practice of courts of justice where there were an even number of members: there they all had one vote; and, where they were equally divided, the chief, or president, had no casting vote; and there was no decision but according to the practice of the House of Commons. The Chairman (except in Election Committees under Act of Parliament) had no vote at all unless where the members on each side were agreed, and then he had a casting vote. In case, therefore, of an uneven number of members — as in the present instance, where, without the Chairman, they were reduced to three—he never could have a vote at all, and would necessarily lose much of his influence and authority. He thought, on the whole, the best way to meet the difficulty was that proposed by the right hon. Baronet (Sir George Grey), to give to the Chairman the double vote in the case of an equality of votes—and he, therefore, would second the Amendment.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that on so important a question relating to Ireland, and as such frequent reference had been made to the University which he had the honour to re-
 392 393 394 Sheil; M. J. O'Connell: 395
 Mr. Vernon  was in favour of giving the casting and double vote to the Chairman, who was generally the best informed as to all the details of the matter before a Committee.
 Sir H. W. Barron  combated the proposition that all the money for these grants came from the pockets of the people of England. Did not the Irish contribute about 5,000,000 l. 404
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could not refrain from correcting the statement of the noble Lord with respect to the religious instruction given in the University of Cambridge at the period to which he had referred. Whatever might be the case in the noble Lord's College, in the College with which he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was connected at the same time as the hon. Member for Kendal (Mr. Warburton)—instead of there being no theological instruction, the fact was, that one of the Gospels was the subject of instruction, study, and examination.
 Mr. Labouchere  concurred with the noble Lord who had just sat down in some parts of his remarks as to the defects in the proposed Resolution; but he thought that his hon. Friend (Mr. Gisborne) was entitled to the thanks of the House for bringing the subject under its notice. He did not think that the system ought to be allowed to remain as it now stood. He could not support the Motion of his hon. Friend; but if any hon. Member would propose that when the Committee were reduced to four, and that the numbers were equal on any disputed question, the Chairman should have a double vote, it should have his support.
 Mr. Warburton  was of opinion that giving the double vote to the Chairman where the division of four was equal, would be the safest course.
 Mr. Warburton  was a member of the Senate of London University, and as much had been said, through ignorance in respect to that institution, he should call their attention to some circumstances relating to it. There were various schools and colleges spread over the Empire which were in connexion with it. There were no less than five Roman Catholic Colleges connected with it—one in Carlow, one in Stonyhurst, one in Oscott, and two in other parts of the country. They oversee the education of the pupils, who afterwards offered themselves as candidates for degrees. There were Baptist Colleges, and Unitarian Colleges — they had King's College, and University College. The heads of these superintended the religious instruction of the pupils who were entrusted to their care. These were the materials out of which the pupils were formed, who subsequently offered themselves as candidates for degrees in the University. There was a provision in their charter which stated, that the object of creating the University was to provide for the opening of academical honours to all classes of Her Majesty's subjects without any exception whatever. The governing body were the individuals who carried out the intentions of his late Majesty. He had sitting with him in the senate the Bishop of Durham and the Bishop of Chester. The late Bishop of Chichester was also a member of that body, who had formerly been a tutor in one of the Colleges of Cambridge. Provision was made for the examination of the students in the Gospels and Scripture history. He hoped that they would hear no more of allegations that this was a godless institution, in which religion was altogether neglected. In the University College they had Coward College, which was founded by Baptists, to superintend the religious instruction of the youth of that religious persuasion. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for the Dublin University stated, that in Trinity College they did not require any of the students but those of the Protestant religion to attend their place of worship—that they did not undertake to superintend the re-
 396
 Mr. Warburton  said, the graduates were examined in  Palsy's Evidences of Christianity,
 Mr. Plumptre  objected to the proposed institution, not because parties would not be incidentally directed to religious instruction, but that there would be no religious instruction under their roof. He confessed that was to him the great fault of the proposed plan. He knew there were difficulties in the way, but he felt that no institution should be founded by a Christian Government which did not recognise Christianity. Allusion had been made to the London University; but he would beg to remind the House that that great and good man, the late Dr. Arnold, who was at one time in connexion with the London University, found it necessary, from conscientious principle, to withdraw from that University because it did not recognise Christianity. It was not his intention to occupy the time of the House; but he could not allow the first step in this measure to be taken without stating the grounds on which he should think it his duty to give it his opposition.
 Mr. Roebuck  understood the proposal of the right hon. Baronet to be part of a large system for the conciliation of Ireland, of which a portion had been brought before the House and discussed in reference to the Maynooth grant, and another portion had been brought forward that night. He had hoped that it would have been larger in its scope, and more conclusive as regarded the future. A Protestant University existed in Trinity College, Dublin; the State had endowed a Roman Catholic College by the grant to Maynooth; then, for the further education of the laity of Ireland, without reference to religious differences, they were to have these three new Colleges. Trinity College, Dublin, was instituted by a Protestant, for Protestant purposes, with Protestant money. That being the case, he did not think that, in justice or in accordance with their own principles, the Irish Members should be anxious to make any inroad on that establishment. That should be left in its integrity just as Roman Catholics had preserved to them the integrity of Maynooth. Then an endeavour was to be made, by three other Colleges, to embrace all other sects; so far the scheme seemed to be comprehensive; but it wanted this one conclusive provision—unless they made some definite provision for them as a University, they would leave open the sore they were endeavouring to heal. But there seemed a fatality in all matters connected with Ire-
 401 402 403
 Mr. M. Bellew  concurred with the view taken by his hon. Friend (Mr. Wyse) of this measure. He feared that if the new Colleges were not connected with the present University they would want that  prestige morning Chronicle,
 Mr. Sheil : The hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford had characterized the measure of the Government as "a gigantic scheme of Godless education;" but the hon. Baronet seemed to condemn the scheme, not so much because no religion was to be taught, as because the creed of the Church of England was not the object of exclusive inculcation. The state-
 381 R. Inglis; 382 383 l. l. 384 l. 385
 Mr. Sheil  said, in explanation, that the purport of his observation respecting consulting the Roman Catholic clergy of Ireland was, that all means ought to be taken to secure their support and co-operation. He was gratified to hear that apartments were to be allocated for lectures in divinity; and the fact that the students were not to be domiciled within the walls of the institution made an essential difference in the weight of the objections which, under a different impression, he had taken to some of the provisions of the new measures.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, this proposition was not liable to any of those objections which were urged against the grant to Maynooth. That grant was for the benefit of persons professing a particular creed; whereas these Colleges were to be open to all, and were intended for the be-
 410
 Mr. T. Duncombe  rose to call attention to the following petition, which it is necessary to insert in order to make the matter intelligible:—
 "PETITION OF ELIZEY PRICE. "The humble petition of the undersigned showeth,—That on Thursday, the 3rd of April, your petitioner attended at the Cross Inn at the Town's-end, in the parish of Kingswinford, to give evidence on behalf of a Mrs. Beaumont, who was charged with assaulting a common informer named Joseph Newey. The case was heard by Samuel Stone Briscoe, Esq., a magistrate, who bound Mrs. Beaumont over to keep the peace. "That after the above case was decided, your petitioner was standing with other persons in the justice room, when the aforesaid Joseph Newey violently assaulted your petitioner, in the presence of the said Samuel Stone Briscoe. "That after your petitioner had recovered from the immediate effects of the blow she received, she applied to the said Samuel Stone Briscoe for a summons or warrant against the aforesaid Joseph Newey, that she might have justice in the case. "That the said Samuel Stone Briscoe refused your petitioner's request. "That on Friday, the 4th of April, your petitioner applied to William Foster, Esq., one of Her Majesty's Justices of the Peace, living in the parish of Kingswinford, and that he, the said William Foster, Esq., issued a summons, requiring the attendance of the aforesaid Joseph Newey, at the Public Office, Wordsley, in the aforesaid parish of Kingswinford. "That on Monday, the 7th of April, your petitioner attended at the said Public Office at Wordsley, and preferred the charge of assault above mentioned against the aforesaid Joseph Newey, before Mr. William Robins, Mr. William Foster, and Mr. George Bate, three of Her Majesty's Justices of the Peace, by whom the said Joseph Newey was, on the evidence of your petitioner, corroborated by Thomas Simmons and George Wells, officers in the Staffordshire County Police, convicted and fined by the aforesaid Justices. "That after the said conviction of the said Joseph Newey, he the said Joseph Newey, I exultingly pulled a paper from his pocket, and told the bench it was a warrant from Samuel Stone Briscoe, Esq., to take your petitioner to the Cross Inn public house at the Townsend, Kingswinford, for an alleged assault com-
 411 "That on the evening of Tuesday, the 8th of April, about six o'clock, the said Joseph Newey, accompanied by James Baker, who represented himself to be a constable, came to your petitioner's house, and took your petitioner forcibly away, and conveyed her to a public house, called the Horseshoes. "That your petitioner's husband, and several respectable persons, offered to give bail for your petitioner's appearance at any time when required; but the said James Baker refused to liberate your petitioner, but said he would do so as soon as William Onions, the constable, came. "That when the said William Onions came, your petitioner was not liberated. "That about twelve o'clock, the aforesaid James Baker wanted your petitioner to accompany him to his house, a distance of nearly two miles; that your petitioner refused to do so, on which Onions said, 'Damn her, if she wont go chain her to the post,' meaning an upright iron post which supports the front of the chimney in the tap room of the said Horseshoes Inn. "That your petitioner was thereupon handcuffed to the said iron post, and was there kept till after six o'clock the next morning, no person remaining with your petitioner. "That no bedclothes, or other accommodation for sleeping, was provided your petititioner, except a wooden bench, which was at an inconvenient distance from the post, and was immovable. "That, consequently, your petitioner was compelled to pass the night sitting on a chair, the only alleviation to her painful condition being a cushion lent by the landlady. "That your petitioner is in the family way, and had been so for more than seven months at the period when she was so chained to the post for a whole night, as above stated, and that in consequence of this cruel treatment your petitioner's health is materially impaired. "That after your petitioner was released from the post, as before described, she was taken on foot by the said James Baker to the Fir-tree House, the residence of Samuel Stone Briscoe, Esq., a distance of four miles. "That your petitioner was taken into the presence of Samuel Stone Briscoe, Esq., no person but the said James Baker, in whose custody your petitioner was, being admitted. "That the said Samuel Stone Briscoe told Baker to liberate your petitioner, saying he could not do anything in the case till Thursday, the 17th April, following, when your petitioner was required to attend at the Cross Inn, Towns-end, Kingswinford. "That your petitioner was then liberated without sureties for her appearance, or her case being at all gone into. "That on the said Thursday, the 17th day of April, your petitioner attended at the Cross Inn public house aforesaid, and was again taken
 412 "That the charge of assault was preferred by the aforesaid Joseph Newey against your petitioner. "That the court, after hearing the evidence of the aforesaid Joseph Newey, and Thomas Simmons, and George Wells, policemen, on oath, and a statement by Samuel Stone Briscoe, Esq., who signed the warrant on which your petitioner was apprehended, not on oath, dismissed the charge of assault against your petitioner, who was thereupon liberated. "That your petitioner, by the above cruel proceeding has been put to great inconvenience and expense, and endured much suffering; and your petitioner is informed she cannot obtain redress in the case but by action at law against the said Samuel Briscoe, Esq., who issued the warrant, and the said James Baker and William Onions, who detained your petitioner in custody. "That your petitioner is poor, and unable to institute such proceedings for want of the necessary funds. "Your petitioner therefore humbly prays your Honours' House to institute an inquiry into the allegations contained in this petition, and apply such remedy as to you in your wisdom may appear proper, and which will meet the justice of the case. "And your petitioner will ever pray
 "ELIZEY X PRICE. "Witness—JOHN RANKIN."
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that after the explanation of the right hon. Baronet, he would ask leave of the House to withdraw his Motion.
 Mr. Gisborne  rose, pursuant to the notice he had given, to call the attention of the House to the subject of which he had yesterday put a question to the noble Lord the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, as to the system of Chairmen voting in Committees on Railway Bills. At the time he had put that question, he was not aware of the existence of a Resolution of the House in 1836, by which it had decided that a Chairman of a Committee should not vote at all unless the Members of the Committee were equally divided. Now, in some cases, the effect of that Resolution would be, that a Chairman would be precluded from voting. This did not seem a satisfactory mode of settling the difficulty; and, therefore, he was driven to look about and see how the matter might be otherwise amended. At first he was disposed to follow the example of the practice in Election Committees, and where the votes were equal, to let the Chairman have a double vote; that was, that he should vote as a Member of the Committee, and when, by that vote, the numbers were equal, that he should have the casting vote; but this, he found, was open to many objections; and to this one in particular, that it would be opposed to the Resolution of the House in 1836. Under such circumstances, though he would prefer the course which at first suggested itself, he would propose this Resolution:—
 "That in all cases in which the Members of a Committee on a Railway Bill, or Group of Bills, shall be reduced to four, the proceedings on such Bill or group of Bills shall be suspended until the Committee of Selection shall have discharged one of the said four Members from further attendance on the said Committee."
 Mr. Wakley  thought that the brutal conduct of the constable arose entirely out of the misconduct of the magistrate, and he trusted the inquiry would embrace that which was done by both.
 Mr. Wyse  said, that connected as he had been for some time with promoting, at least, the discussion of this question, and hoping, through a long period, that there would at length arrive a time when the consideration of Parliament would be given to it without distinction of political or religious differences, he trusted that he might be permitted to detain their attention for a short period in making a few observations upon various parts of the project submitted to the House by the right hon. Gentleman. During the last Session of Parliament he had submitted to the Government a proposition which he thought it his duty to lay before the House and the country, and received upon that occasion from the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government a pledge, that during the recess, he would give every attention to inquire and consider what his Motion had in view; and that if it were not in the power of the Government to propose a measure likely to meet with the concurrence of the country, he would return it into his hands, and give him what support was within his reach. He must say, after having heard the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, that as far as one part of his plan went, he had redeemed that pledge to the full. The question resolved itself into two distinct branches. One referred to the establishment of institutions between elementary education and uni-
 367 368 conservatoria, conservatoria 369 concursus 370 371 "Mater Universitatis;" 372 l. 373 374
 Sir G. Grey  thought that the public would have little confidence in the decisions of those Sub-Committees if the Chairman were precluded from giving his opinion, and voting on the subjects under dis-
 345 "That all Questions before Committees on Railway Groups or Bills shall be decided by a majority of voices, including the voice of the Chairman, and that whenever the voices shall be equal, the Chairman shall have a second or casting vote."
 Mr. Ward  hoped that his right hon. Friend (Mr. Labouchere) would put his suggestion in the shape of an Amendment, as it would be most likely to meet the wishes of the House.
 Sir J. Graham  then proceeded to say: As I am about to trespass upon the indulgence of the House in a manner which is not strictly regular, I desire to state that if it be the feeling of the House that before the adjournment petitions should be presented, I will gladly give way. ["No;" "Go on."] Then, Sir, collecting that it is the wish of the House that I should now proceed, I shall, in obedience to their pleasure, address you on the Motion, notice of which stands in my name upon the Books; and I shall not trespass upon your indulgence by any
 346 347 "We have applied our efforts to the forming of a system which will afford education to the lower classes of the people;"— "which may, at the same time, by keeping clear of all interference with the particular religious feelings of any, induce the whole to receive its benefits as one undivided body, under one and the same system, and in the same establishment." "We conceive it to be of essential importance to any new establishment for the education of the lower classes in Ireland, and we venture to express our unanimous opinion, that no such plan, however wisely and unexceptionably contrived in other respects, can be carried into effectual execution in this
 348 "That schools should be established for the purpose of giving to children of all religious persuasions such useful instruction as they might severally be capable and desirous of receiving, without having any grounds to apprehend any interference with their respective religious principles." 349 "In 1828 a Committee of the House of Commons, to which were referred the various Reports of the Commissioners of Education, recommended a system to be adopted which should afford, if possible, a combined literary and a separate religious education, and should be capable of being so far adapted to the views of the religious persuasions which prevail in Ireland, as to render it in truth a system of national education for the poorer classes of the community." "For the success of the undertaking, much must depend upon the character of the individuals who compose the Board; and upon the security thereby afforded to the country that, while the interests of religion are not overlooked, the most scrupulous care should be taken not to interfere with the peculiar tenets of any description of Christian pupils." "The House will find that your Committee have received much evidence of importance on the subject of the education of the poor. They cannot but hope that no further time will be lost in giving the public the benefit of the expensive and long-protracted inquiries before the Royal Commissioners of 1806 and 1825, and the practical recommendations of the Select Committee of 1828, the Report of which Committee is ordered to be reprinted." "The principle of this Board is, and has been from the beginning, that the national schools shall be open alike to Christians of all denominations, and that accordingly no child shall be required to be present at any reli-
 350 l. l.; 351 l.; 352 353 354 l. l. l. 355 l., l. l. l. 356 357 l. 358 l., 359 360 361 "And, whereas, it may be expedient, in case His Majesty, his heirs and successors, shall be pleased so to alter the statutes of the College of the Holy and undivided Trinity, near Dublin, and of the University of Dublin, as to enable persons professing the Roman Catholic religion, to enter into or to take degrees in the said University, to remove any obstacle which now exists by Statute Law; be it enacted, that from and after the 1st day of June, 1793, it shall not be necessary for any person upon taking any of the degrees usually conferred by the said University, to make or subscribe any declaration, or to take any oath, save the oaths of allegiance and abjuration, any law or statute to the contrary notwithstanding." 362 "Do you not know that at this moment there are a great number of Roman Catholics educated in the University of Dublin?" "A great number; but at present, unfortunately, under unpleasant cirsumstances. There is, unfortunately, now a considerable spirit of religious acrimony, which, one way or the other, has got into Trinity College in Dublin, and makes it unpleasant to the Roman Catholic young gentlemen to be there: but very little attention would soon put a period to that, more especially as most of the fellows, I am sure, would most heartily concur in discountenancing it." "Would not one measure very much tend to conciliate the Roman Catholics, and to do away the unpleasantness to which you have referred, namely, that of leaving the election of scholarships open to both religions, which they are not now? I doubt that. I will state why. As Trinity College, Dublin, is constituted, it is intended for the education of the Protestant clergy. I do not think it would be a wise thing to give the scholarship to Catholic young men. I think that young men of talent who are intended for the Protestant Church, ought to have those scholarships. It is intended for the education of Protestants; but then the scholarships are helps to poor young men. The Protestant gentry can support themselves exclusively, and thus they seldom look for them, except
 363 "That the foundation and gradual endowment of a second University within this kingdom, by the aid and authority of Parliament, in addition to the present excellent establishment of Trinity College in this capital, might conduce to the greater perfection of a general system for the improvement of education, and to the wider diffusion of learning and science throughout the nation." 364 365 "I trust, my Lord, I have placed before you (and in doing so before the Cabinet), with sufficient clearness, the chief bearings of this important subject, and that I have at last succeeded, after the many communications I have had with you already on every one of the points to which I have just endeavoured to call your attention, in impressing your Lordship with the necessity, the object, the nature, the advantages, but more especially with the practicability (which seemed to be so much doubted) of establishing and maintaining, not one, but, in time, a series of provincial Colleges in Ireland." "For my own part, sensible as I am how little weight attaches to my opinion, I still venture to state, that every day that passes, and every person with whom I converse, adds only to my conviction, so often expressed before, that a greater boon could not be conferred on the country, blessing him that takes, and him that gives. A nobler monument could not be left behind them by the Government, more tending to the virtue and happiness of the people, to the quiet and prosperity of the country—more likely to be valued, and more valuable—but, above all, more cheap and more practicable than the execution of the project which not I, but a Committee of the House of Commons, here submits to your consideration." 366
 Sir J. Graham  said, that in consequence of information which had reached him officially with respect to this case, he had already instituted a partial inquiry by writing to Mr. Briscoe, and requesting him to offer such explanations as he might think proper to send. The conduct of Mr. Briscoe was only a part of the case. The latter part of it, which attracted most attention, and which was well calculated to excite a warm feeling of indignation, was the misconduct of a constable. It was, he believed, perfectly true, that under a warrant for an assault, a married woman,
 413
 Sir R. Inglis  thought that a principle of great importance was involved in the measure of which notice had been given; and, considering that the ground, on which this experiment was to be made, was Ireland, he had waited until Gentlemen—more immediately connected with that division of the Empire (still united)—had enjoyed the opportunity of delivering their opinions, before he trespassed on the attention of the House. He had heard the hon. Member for Waterford, who was so long connected with this subject, and who was now so justly triumphant in having his views, which were not countenanced by the late Government, adopted by the present. He had also heard the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Ross), who is connected with what was called the Presbyterian part of Ireland, but what he would more willingly call the great Protestant part of Ireland; and then followed the hon. Member for Louth (Mr. Bellew), and the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Roche). The testimony of the latter hon. Gentleman in favour of the measure had peculiar force, inasmuch as one of the new Colleges was to be founded in that county which he represents. But the principle involved in the Bill was one of imperial and national importance. Did he understand his right hon. Friend (Sir J. Graham) to say that not only was there to be no exclusive religious instruction in those institutions which, in the name of Her Majesty, he now proposed to endow, but that there was to be no religious instruction whatsoever given in those institutions? [Sir  J. Graham: 378 379 380
 Sir R. Peel : Mr. Speaker—Sir, the right hon. Gentleman has not, either by his speech or by the course he seems prepared to take on this occasion, removed the impression under which I spoke in 1835, when I said that the chief difficulty of my Government would be found in Ireland. The right hon. Member has certainly not done anything to remove the impression, when he tells us he is prepared to combine with the hon. Baronet the Member for Oxford University in opposition, on principle, to a measure which I believe calculated to advance the moral, social, and physical welfare of the people of Ireland. Now, addressing myself, in the first place, to the observations made by my hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford, I put the simple but solemn question, What is the condition of Ireland with regard to educational institutions? You have provided ample means for the education of the very poorest classes in Ireland, and, as my right hon. Friend the Home Secretary has told you, you have contrived to give a moral and religious education to above 400,000 of the children of the poorer classes, uniting, in many schools, Roman
 386 387 388 389 390 R. Inglis: l. R. Inglis: 391
 Viscount Palmerston : Sir, I cannot let the debate close without expressing the pleasure with which I have heard the scheme of the Government; and I feel bound to acknowledge, that the tone in which the measure has been proposed is
 406 407 408 409
 Mr. Labouchere  thought the hon. Member for Droitwich had brought forward his case with perfect fairness, and had fully explained the nature of his interest in the matter; but he had not, in his opinion, made out any case against the second reading. If there was any surprise in the case, it appeared to him that it was not confined to one side, for the hon. Member had not given to the parties to the Bill any intimation of his intention to oppose the second reading, and they could have had no knowledge of such an intention until to-day. He thought the fairer course to all parties would be to read the Bill a second time, and refer it to the Committee.
 Mr. Spooner  moved the second reading of the Birmingham and Gloucester (Wolverhampton line) Railway Bill.
 Mr. Spooner  said, there had been no abandonment of the project, though his hon. Friend was justified in inferring from what had passed that it was abandoned; but as soon as it was determined to revive it, he had got notice of it—that which he got on the 2nd of April, and yet he had not ever since given any intimation of his intention to oppose it; and it was not fair now, when the promoters of the Bill had their witnesses in town, and had counsel engaged, and the case was ready to be gone into in Committee, to deal with it out of the ordinary course, and refuse it a second reading. On the success of this Bill depended, in a great measure, the termination of the controversy between the wide and narrow gauge. The House ought not to take the Bill out of the hands of the Committee.
 Mr. Wakley  rose to move, pursuant to Notice—
 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the Management of the Royal College of Surgeons of England:—Also, to investigate the Circumstances which led to the grant of an additional Charter to the Council in 1843, and into the Effects produced by the operation of that Charter upon the interests and professional rank of the great body of the Members of the College." "That, by virtue of a charter granted in the year 1843 by Her Majesty, the Council were empowered to select from among the members a certain number of persons, and to confer upon them the dignity and title of 'Fellows,' together with the privilege of electing the Council in future. That while your petitioners cannot but look upon such a distinction (however desirable in itself) as unjust, if made to operate retrospectively upon the character and interests of the great body of the members of the College, they more particularly desire to assert their most indignant protest against the manner in which the Council have exercised the power entrusted to them by the said charter. That the charter requires that all existing members of the College shall undergo another examination, or be for ever excluded from the honour and privileges of the fellowship, an indignity from which your petitioners cannot but feel that the possession of the before-mentioned diploma, and a devotion of many years to the active duties of their profession, ought, in fairness, to have exempted them; the petitioners, therefore, humbly pray that no Bill concerning the medical profession which shall in any way recognise the distinctions alluded to, be allowed to pass into a law until such an inquiry shall have been instituted." 417 "That the public, and the members of the surgical profession, may justly complain that the science of surgery has not been advanced, nor its practitioners benefited, either by the late corporation or the present Royal College of Surgeons in London. That the regulations first promulgated and acted upon in 1823, prescribing the course of study required of candidates for the diploma, contain provisions of the most oppressive character, injurious to the rights and property of individuals, calculated to increase the expense and difficulty of acquiring surgical knowledge, and to serve the private interests of the ten examiners by whom these regulations were made." 418 "That from henceforth no member of the said College, who shall not also be a fellow of the same, shall be eligible as a member of the council of the said College; nor shall any fellow be so eligible whilst practising midwifery or pharmacy, or who shall have practised midwifery or pharmacy at any time during the five years next preceding the day of election; nor unless he shall reside and  bonâ fide bonâ fide 419 "That although your petitioner, in his collective capacity has been compelled to accept the grant of a new charter to the said College, a copy of which was lately laid on the Table, of your hon. House, he considers several of the provisions of the said charter to be illiberal, exclusive, and unjust." "Your petitioner, aware of the unfitness of this charter for the purposes for which it was intended, opposed its acceptance in his place in the council of the said College, and has on every possible occasion objected to its continuance. The parts of the charter to which your petitioner particularly objects are those which, from their supposed liberality, are considered by the few advocates it possesses to form a praiseworthy feature in its construction, but which your petitioner is ready to prove are the principal causes of the discontent which has been manifested throughout the profession in a manner hitherto unprecedented; and that, so far from any of them being acts of liberality, they are really otherwise, being either deceptive in
 420 "If the changes introduced by the present charier are to have the effect of elevating the character of the surgical profession generally, it will be in the next, rather than in the present generation." 421 "Two hundred and twenty-nine surgeons of general hospitals in various parts of the United Kingdom; fifty-two teachers of the various branches of medical science, recognised as such by former acts of the council; ten who had distinguished themselves by their contributions to the sciences connected with surgery; forty surgeons resident in London not practising pharmacy or midwifery, who were considered eligible to the council under the former charter and by laws, and who, if not admitted to the fellowship, would have been deprived of a privilege which they formerly possessed (many of these, though not connected with general hospitals, hold important public appointments); four senators of the University of London; 132 surgeons in the navy, army, and East India Company's service (these were recommended by the heads of their respective departments, with the exception of the surgeons of the regiments of Guards, who, being independent of the Army Medical Board, were nominated by the council according to seniority); sixty-seven provincial surgeons, who, though not attached to general hospitals, have a high surgical reputation in their respective districts (many of these hold important public appointments, and there is no one among them whose diploma is dated since 1824). To these may now be added,
 422 "Is not a large share of the actual practice of a London surgeon medical practice?—Unquestionably: surgical cases are principally treated by means called medical. Perhaps this practice extends, not merely to the medical treatment of surgical cases, but to the treatment of many cases altogether medical?
 423 "Is it not a very important part of the business of a surgeon, by proper medical treatment, to prevent the necessity of operating?—Yes; it is a great mistake that is sometimes made, to suppose that the great business of the surgeons is to perform operations. That is one part of their business; but only the smallest part. The principal employment of surgeons is to prevent the necessity of operations; which, however, they will perform when they are wanted. In the present improved state of the art, the greater number of cures made in cases which are universally acknowledged to be surgical, are made by medical treatment, not by operations." "In the case of army surgeons residing in this country, do they not practise pharmacy as well as surgery in the treatment of diseases in the regiment?—I do not know that they practise what I call pharmacy; they all prescribe, but I do not know that they make up their medicines. The fact is we are all physician-surgeons, and it is a folly to say that any man is a pure surgeon; for as to practising surgery without physic, it is absolutely impossible." "Are the medical and surgical cases separated at St. Thomas's Hospital?—They are. Was it the rule some years ago, that in a case requiring external and internal treatment, the surgeon attended to the surgical treatment,
 424 "Ought midwifery to be one of the subjects which candidates should be required by your council to have studied, and to be examined upon?—I think midwifery ought to be studied by those who mean to practise the medical profession, and that such persons ought to be examined on that subject. Ought it to form a part of the course prescribed by the College of Surgeons? I think it ought. Ought there not to be on the Board of Examiners practitioners in midwifery?—I think that would be necessary, if the College of Surgeons are to perform the duty of examining in midwifery." "I hold that, as to the practice of midwifery, it is one of the most important operations in
 425 "You have already proposed that the examinations in midwifery should not be intrusted to the Apothecaries' Company, but to examiners connected with the College of Surgeons?—There are a great number of respectable apothecaries in London who have practised midwifery to a great extent; and in that body there would be many individuals found who could give good examinations in midwifery. But I think the best constructed board would be derived from those men who practise midwifery almost exclusively. I have heard of such horrors from ignorance in midwifery as would harrow up your souls if I were to repeat them." 426 427 "Under a sense of justice to their future members, who will possess the same qualification as the present members, and under the obligation which the institution of the novel honorary degree imposed, they necessarily sought other evidence of distinguished surgical attainments than the ordinary diploma, which attests only the amount of proficiency required of all." 428 429 "That in any Charter which the Crown may be advised to grant for the Incorporation of the General Practitioners, those gentlemen are fully entitled to enjoy an equality of professional station with the newly created Fellows; that a deep and lasting injury would be inflicted on many thousands of scientific men, if
 430
 Mr. Pakington  regretted that he had not given a public intimation of his intention to oppose the second reading of this Bill. He would have done so, but that he had not had an opportunity of doing so before the holidays.
 Mr. Pakington  would take the sense of the House against this Bill. He trusted that the House would not sanction such a precedent as the success of this Motion would establish, and allow parties who had brought forward a railway project, and then abandoned it for seven or eight months, to bring it forward again at the last moment at the greatest possible inconvenience and injury to the landowners and others who were opposed to it. When this Bill was brought in, his surveyor told him that it violated the Standing Orders in so many particulars that it could not possibly pass without his concurrence. He had no idea in what particular the Standing Orders had been violated, for when he heard that the line was abandoned he thought no more of it, and had not the remotest thought that it would be proceeded with till he received a letter from Mr. Wheatley, of Birmingham, the solicitor to the company, dated the 1st of April last. The Railway Department of the Board of Trade also considered this line abandoned; for in one of their Reports they stated, "It is understood that arrangements have been made by which it is withdrawn in favour of the London and Birmingham Company." He begged further to add that this project was now brought forward by the London and Birmingham Company, in order to meet some deficiencies in its own Bill, and not by the Birmingham and Gloucester Company which originated it, but which had since amalgamated with the Midland Counties Railway Company. In consequence of the actual abandonment of this line, the Board of Trade had not reported upon it. He had not had proper notice of their intention to proceed with this Bill,
 415
 Sir R. Inglis  said, he did not understand his hon. Friend to object to the Bill, except upon the ground of surprise; but, as he understood the facts, it was his hon. Friend the Member for Droitwich who was taken by surprise; and he would, therefore, support the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Droitwich.
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  moved a Resolution in conformity with that recommended by the First Report of the Committee on Railways of last Session—viz., that the following clause be inserted in all Railway Bills passing through this House:—
 "And be it further Enacted, That nothing herein contained shall be deemed or construed to exempt the Railway by this or the said recited Acts authorised to be made from the provisions of any general Act relating to such Bills, or of any general Act relating to Railways, which may hereafter pass during the present or any future Session of Parliament."
 Mr. Gladstone  concurred with others in thinking the Motion ought to be postponed.
 Mr. H. Berkeley  considered that a degree of hardship would be inflicted by the Motion on those hon. Members who, from the counting out of the House, or the House not being made, had been disappointed in bringing on Motions of which notice had been given. He had been so disappointed last night in regard to his Motion for a Committee to inquire into the operation of the Insolvency Act of last Session—a Motion of great importance to his constituents, and which he hoped the Government would yet enable him to bring under consideration.
 Mr. H. Berkeley  hoped some opportunity would be afforded him of bringing forward his Motion. He did not wish to make a long speech, and should be quite satisfied if the Government would agree to appoint a Committee.
 Mr. Stafford O'Brien  said, as the hon. Member opposite had made his name a striking part of his speech, he begged to say a few words in reply to the question he had put to him. Though he had received no intimation or suggestion from the right hon. Baronet or any Member of the Government on the preceding evening with regard to the counting out of the House, he had, during the speech of the hon. Gentleman, received repeated applications to make that Motion from hon. Gentlemen on the hon. Member's own side of the House. At one period of the hon. Gentleman's speech there were not more than a dozen Members present to listen to him; but he declined to interrupt the hon. Member, for, he said, the hon. Member for Finsbury always speaks well, and you will get more information by listening to him here than at the Reform Club. But he added that when the hon. Member had concluded his speech he intended to move that "the House be counted." Notwithstanding this courtesy the hon. Member now turned round upon him, and charged him with interrupting his Motion, though it was well known that if, depending on his friends, the hon. Member had been allowed to carry on his Motion to a division, the House would not—to use his own peculiar phraseology—have survived the operation.
 Mr. Williams  said, he had always advocated the efficiency of the Navy, and if the Government were that night to state that our foreign relations required an increase of that branch of the Public Service, he should make no objection whatever to such increase. He wished the Government, however, would take measures to secure the services of the British seamen to the British flag. If those who were now serving other countries could be secured for this, we should have nothing to fear in the
 466
 Mr. Corry  moved that 129,092 l.
 Captain Rous  said, it was a curious circumstance that on important questions respecting naval affairs there was a great discrepancy of opinion amongst officers who might be considered by the House to be the best authorities on the subject. Both his hon. and gallant Friends the Members for Gloucester and Marylebone, in his humble opinion, took a very ultra view of the question of manning ships of war; and so strongly had his hon. Friend the Member for Gloucester felt on the subject, that he had given up a lucrative and most honourable office in the conscientious discharge of his public duty, for which every good man must respect him; but one of his principal reasons for arguing the question against his gallant Friend was, that his speech was an unfair attack against the late Admiralty, and the popular cry of keeping ships of war fully manned had been swelled into a party cheer when the present Administration took office, implying, of course, that the Members of the late Board of Admiralty
 453 Agamemnon. Bacchante, Bacchante Fox, 454 Albion, 455
 Mr. Hawes  complained that the Post Office was charged with the expenses of the packet service previously borne by the Admiralty, which caused an apparent loss of revenue under the penny postage system of 113,000 l.
 Mr. Hawes  argued that the statement was no answer to his objection. The Return had created a false impression; and no doubt the object of it was to show that the penny postage system had failed.
 Mr. Hawes  thought a longer notice ought to have been given, and this subject discussed in a more full House. It might be postponed to this day week.
 Mr. Cardwell  said, that he deemed it right to say a few words as to the facts of the case. In the month of October last,
 439 Velocity,
 Mr. Darby  thought that the Motion ought to be adjourned to a more convenient time.
 Mr. Lambton  said, that the crimping system had often been most unsparingly denounced by the highest authorities connected with the naval service of the country. Captain Elliot truly described it as a great evil to the seamen, and it certainly was one which the Legislature was bound to remedy. It was a grievous plundering of poor and simple-minded men. When a sailor landed he was usually seduced into some of the low boarding-houses, where every temptation to debauchery was presented to him; he was kept there till all his money was spent, and then he was turned forth to perish in the streets. The House really ought to adopt some measures calculated to remedy these evils. Perhaps it might be necessary to license the boarding-houses, and perhaps also to license the crimps. Of this he felt certain, that there were greater abuses arising from both classes of establishments.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he had stated on a former occasion, that the revenue derived from the penny postage would be very small; but it was obvious that all the charges incident to the collection of the postage revenue should be deducted from the gross amount. It was thought better that the Admiralty should carry the mails; and consequently the expense transferred to that branch of the service. The Returns objected to by the hon. Member was intended to show the total expense and the balance. He had not, and did not mean to deny, that the Post-office revenue was an increasing revenue.
 Mr. Labouchere  was disposed to concur in the propriety of the proposition; but still the question ought to be adjourned.
 Dr. Bowring  said, that a very great anxiety prevailed on the subject of the hon. Member's Motion, and he thought the nomination of a Committee was imperatively called for.
 Dr. Bowring  objected to the Navy Department having the power of receiving as well as of expending funds, and said that the consequence was, that nearly seven millions of money escaped Parliamentary control. In his opinion, it should have no power as a board of outlay, except by direct Parliamentary grant.
 Mr. Trelawny  was sorry to be compelled to interrupt for a short time the progress of the financial business of the country; and he certainly would not have done so, had he not felt bound to bring under the consideration of the House a
 437 Velocity. l. 438 l.
 Mr. Somes  said, he did not believe that the seamen had the real enjoyment of more than half their money.
 Mr. Somes,  in explanation, observed that the shipowners as a body would, he was sure, be but too happy to destroy the crimp system, if the Government would only suggest some means by which it might be accomplished.
 Mr. Somes  said, he was in duty bound to tell the House that it was impossible to do altogether without crimps. It was well known that seamen were necessarily in advance some two or three months as regarded the matter of wages, and without the assistance of crimps it would be impossible to keep them from deserting. On one occasion when he wanted some men, he was placed in communication with Captain Elliot, of the Sailors' Home, who undertook to provide him with the necessary complement of men; but he very speedily withdrew from that undertaking, declaring his inability to fulfil it; he was evidently wrong to give it up, but he found the task impossible, and, of course, application to the crimps became unavoidable. The gallant Commodore opposite shook his head; but it was impossible for any one to take a different course. Something was said about the deficiency in the number of seamen; but he must declare that he did not think the apprehensions upon this score were at all well founded. In the year 1814, the total number of seamen was 172,000, and at least two-thirds of that number were able seamen. Since 1814, the seamen had been increased to the extent of 42,000; and in the same proportion the number of able seamen had been increased; but in three or four years matters would be still better by reason of the change in the apprenticeship system. He could not let this opportunity pass of saying that the public were greatly indebted to the Board of Admiralty for the arrangements that they had made; and, further, he could not avoid adding, that the description and designations of our ships were of great importance; for if a British vessel of moderate size, denominated a 74, were to be beaten by a so-called American frigate, what would the world say? He, therefore, thought it a great improvement
 452
 Mr. P. Howard  contended that as that renowned statesman, M. Guizot, had constantly evinced the utmost desire to promote the happiness of mankind, no doubt he would take an early opportunity of doing all in his power to terminate the direful evil of slavery. A decided distinction ought to be made in our conduct to-
 491
 Mr. Gisborne  understood this was proposed as a Standing Order, and he had an objection to the patching up of the Standing Orders of the House.
 Mr. Wakley  said, as reference had been made to him, he might be permitted to state, that although the Government had certainly assisted in making a House on the previous night, he was not aware that they had made any very powerful efforts to keep it. It was true he had had an opportunity of saying a great deal, but he had not expressed the half of what he had intended to say. He would admit, that so far as form went he had been allowed to finish his speech; but he saw where the dial pointed—he saw it was approaching the fatal hour of seven—and feeling that it was expedient, that the right hon. Gentleman should have an opportunity of replying, he concluded, in the hope that that reply would be listened to, and be the means of keeping a House. It was most important that independent Members should have an opportunity of bringing forward those questions in which their constituents and the country felt an interest; but that would be impossible if the Government took from them the Thursday, while this mode of interrupting the business of the House was resorted to. Although not more than thirty Members were present when the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) rose to speak on the previous evening, no attempt had been made by hon. Gentlemen on that side of the House to count the House out. It had been done by an hon. Gentleman on the opposite Benches; and perhaps that hon. Gentleman, the hon. Member for Northamptonshire, would now be good enough to state the grounds that had induced him to move that the House be counted. He and others felt, that the
 436
 Sir Charles Napier  said, he had been with others accused of a propensity to find fault. Now he had never had the least wish to find fault with the present or any other Admiralty, unless there was ground for it. He knew very well that if he had gone on quietly and never found fault with anything, and never pointed out any of the errors to the Admiralty, he should have been in a better position than now. The hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Admiralty smiled, but so it was. If he had behaved himself better, he should now have been in command of an experimental squadron. The gallant Officer had expressed a wish that he should have such a command, and had asked him what ship he would like to have—and then, when another officer was appointed, what was the reason assigned? That he (Sir C. Napier) was too much of a party man. Now he disclaimed being a party man in anything relating to the Admiralty. He would much rather give his opinion to that Board quietly and in a private way, regarding errors that might be corrected; but the fact was, it was impossible to do anything for the good of the British Navy
 460 461 G. Cockburn: l. l. Albion, Albion Powerful Thunderer, 462 Albion Albion 463 Chancellor of the Exchequer: l. Somes: l. l. s. 464 l. l.; l., l. s. l. s. s. s. s. 465 l.
 Sir Charles Napier  said, he would take advantage of the Navy Estimates being before the House to refer to the constitution of the Board of Admiralty. Its present form arose from his right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Home Department having abolished the Navy Board; and since that change had taken place, he (Sir C. Napier) had repeatedly objected to the constitution of the Board of Admiralty as it now stood. It was his firm conviction that no good could be obtained through the Board while it remained constituted as at present. The responsibility was nominally thrown on the Lords of the Admiralty, each of whom took a different department of the service under his care: but every one knew what that responsibility consisted of. He had been always opposed to the system of having the Navy ruled by a civilian; but if it were to be so he would wish to know why the same system should not prevail in that department which existed under the Ordnance Board. They had the Clerk of the Ordnance, the Surveyor of the Ordnance, and the Storekeeper, all of whom were controlled, or at least, ought to be controlled by the Master General of the Ordnance. Now, they had a Surveyor of the Navy as well as a Surveyor of the Ordnance; an Accountant General of the Navy, whose office corresponded, he believed, with that of the Clerk of the Ordnance; they had also a Storekeeper General in each department of the Navy and the Ordnance; and what he wanted was, that the rule which was applied to the one class of officers should be extended to the other. He would wish to see the Lords of the Admiralty made really responsible. He would place one Lord as a Comptroller
 493
 Sir C. Napier  would be glad if the gallant Admiral could inform him when the retired list of captains would be placed on the Table.
 Sir C. Napier  hoped that the Enlistment or Register Act would be amended. The Bill gave a bounty of 10 l. l.
 Sir G. Clerk  thought it ought to be adjourned.
 Sir G. Cockburn  said, that in a very few words he would explain how this matter stood. He would place it in its true light. In 1814, these officers had been first put upon half-pay. In 1842, there were nearly 1,000 at 5 s., s., s. s. s. s. d., s. d. s.; s. d., s., s.; 495
 Sir G. Cockburn  replied, that he was unable to give an answer as to the period when it would be made public; but the list was now under the consideration of the Government.—Vote agreed to.
 Sir G. Cockburn  was surprised to hear the hon. and gallant Officer, who was usually so fair in his Motions, and to whom he always listened with much respect, begin his speech by saying, that he (Sir G. Cockburn) had asserted there was no difficulty in manning our fleet. Another gallant Officer on a former occasion said something to the like effect, which he had then immediately contradicted. So far from having made the declaration imputed to him, he had commenced his remarks by saying it was impossible to get the number of seamen wanted at a moment's notice; but there would be no difficulty in finding as many seamen as you chose to give bread and employment to, but no more. At the end of the war there was an enormous number of seamen paid off. These men had gone into foreign service, or found other employment at home. They were no longer available to the Navy. If the Navy was reduced to the extent of 3,000 or 4,000 men, in a few years those men could not be had, and this, in fact, was the substance of his argument. The number of seamen allowed by Parliament would always be kept up. They might educate 40,000 boys if they chose; but then if they found employment and bread for only 20,000 seamen, the first number would ultimately dwindle down to the latter. The number that maintenance was provided for would always be had, and would always be retained. It was, therefore, unfair to charge him with saying that the Navy could be manned momentarily, when we pleased, when his words were directly opposed to that assertion. The fact was, the Government had now obtained the number of men they wanted. They had manned all the ships, except the  Queen, Hibernia, Canopus, 448 Berkeley: Superb 449 Dublin 450 Superb Vindictive Albion, Rodney, Albion, 451 Victory,
 Captain Pechell  was greatly surprised at some of the hon. and gallant Officer's statements and arguments. The hon. and gallant Member had stated that the way to get good officers and seamen was to pay off the line of battle ships, and to put their crews into small frigates and brigs, taking care that those vessels were very sparingly manned. If such was now the opinion of the hon. and gallant Officer, as to the superior advantages to be derived from short complements, what must have been the feelings of the gallant Officer when, in command of his frigate in Cadiz bay, he was compelled to acknowledge his inability to perform certain manœuvres ordered by signal by the senior officer, from the circumstance of the absence from the ship of a single boat's crew only; such being the condition of his vessel as to numerical strength. [Captain  Rous: Rous 456 l. l., 457 l. l. G. Cockburn: 458 G. Cockburn:
 Captain Pechell  said, the gallant Commodore had told them that the consequence of the present constitution of the Board of Admiralty was, that the work performed by it was very badly done; and an instance of the truth of that fact was afforded by the case which he now, pursuant to the notice given by him, brought before the consideration of the Committee. He alluded to the petition of the paymasters and pursers of the Royal Navy, which had been presented by him on the 2nd of April last, and which had been printed with the Votes. A Committee of eminent naval officers had recommended that their pay should be increased 1 s. 494 l.
 Mr. Ward  remarked that he had strong claims upon the right hon. Baronet, in regard to his Motion for inquiring into the peculiar burdens on land. If the Resolution now proposed were carried, it was probable that he would not have an opportunity of bringing forward that Motion during the present Session; and considering that he had on a previous evening, abstained from using his influence to cause a House to be made, he might almost say, at the personal request of the right hon. Baronet, but certainly in consequence of his appeal on the ground of great fatigue, he thought he had some claim to ask that facilities should be afforded him by the Government for bringing on his Motion.
 Mr. Ward  said, there was not a chance, for the Notice Paper for each of those days was already filled.
 Mr. Ward,  under the circumstances he had stated, thought he might fairly appeal to the fight hon. Baronet's courtesy, as well as to his sense of justice, to afford him facilities for bringing on his Motion.
 Captain Berkeley  wished to say one word in explanation. He had not, through the whole of his speech, uttered one syllable that might be construed into a proposition for imposing further expense on the country in one way or the other.
 Mr. M. F. F. Berkeley,  in proposing the Motion of which he had given notice, to call the attention of the House to the present system of manning Her Majesty's Navy, and the difficulty that arises in procuring able seamen for the service, observed that the speech recently made by the hon. Member for Peebles-shire, that he had not formerly voted for the Maynooth grant because it was so small, had not created more surprise than the statement of the hon. and gallant Admiral opposite (Sir G. Cockburn), that he could man the Navy effectually, and with good and able sea men, to any amount at the present moment, were it necessary. In the course of his political life, there was one thing of which he was prouder than any other, and that was his conduct with regard to the Navy of this country. He had never allowed that subject to take the form in his mind of a mere party question. Whether sitting on the Government or the Opposition side of the House—whether in office or out of office—he had always stuck to the manning of the Navy as the most important feature connected with that service; and had contended that it was useless to build costly ships, and go to the expense of experimental squadrons, unless they provided for the ships, when
 440 "The maintenance of our naval supremacy is intimately blended with our feelings of national pride, and with all our plans for the preservation of power; and perhaps no surer proof of want of patriotism could be evinced by any man, than in converting matters connected with the Navy into party questions. The Navy is strictly national; and it is the one branch of the Public Service for which John Bull never begrudges payment. It is, then, of the first importance that it be preserved in the best possible order." Albion Albion, 441 442 "I return your papers. I am confident no suggestions can be more useful than those made on improving the manning of our ships. I trust the Board will adopt them." Hercules, Asia 443 Hercules. Asia Hercules. Hercules Hercules, Hercules, 444 Thunderer, Vanguard Thunderer, Vanguard. Thunderer, 445 Thunderer. Thunderer: Hercules, l. l. 446 447
 Sir R. Peel  said, that he had no notion the hon. Member meant to refer to a conversation which he had with a deputation two years ago; but certainly the hon. Member had wholly mistaken the communication which he had made on that occasion. That deputation had pressed on him the necessity of more frequent deliveries, and he did not, in answer, say that there ought to be no improvements; certainly, nothing was further from his intention than to draw any conclusion unfavourable to the penny postage. He had done all in his power to carry it into effect, as soon as Parliament had sanctioned it, and he should rejoice at its success; but
 492 l., l.;
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, with respect to the period at which the Slave Trade Papers for the present year should be presented, I certainly have a confident hope that they will be presented at an earlier period than the noble Lord was in the habit of presenting them. I believe during the noble Lord's tenure of office they were very rarely presented before the concluding part of the Session, owing, no doubt, to the claims which the other duties of the office made on the noble Lord's time.
 * 
 
 BEFORE 1830. 
 Denmark (general art.) January, 1814 
 United States (Ghent) December, 1814 
 Portugal January, 1815; July, 1817 
 Spain August, 1814; September, 1817 
 Netherlands May 1818 
 Additional Article (no slaves on board) December, 1822 
 Additional Article (Equipment) January, 1823 
 Sweden (with Equipment Article) November, 1824 
 Brazil November, 1826 
 Algiers, Tripoli, Tunis April, 1816 
 Madagascar October, 1817; October, 1820 
 Muscat September, 1822 
 
 SINCE 1830. 
 France November, 1831; March, 1833 
 Denmark July, 1834 
 Sardinia August, 1834 
 Spain June, 1835 
 Sweden June, 1835 
 Netherlands February, 1837 
 Hans Towns June, 1837 
 Tuscany November, 1837 
 Naples February, 1838 
 Chile January, 1839 
 Venezuela March, 1839 
 Buenos Ayres May, 1839 
 Uruguay July, 1839 
 Haiti, Muscat December, 1839 
 Portugal (Act of Parliament) 1839 
 Bolivia September, 1840 
 Texas November, 1840 
 Mexico February, 1841 
 18 Treaties. 
 1 Act of Parliament. 
 
 SINCE AUGUST, 1841. 
 Austria, Russia, Prussia December, 1841 
 Portugal July, 1842 
 United States August, 1842 
 
 REMAIN NOW WITHOUT TREATIES. 
 Belgium Hanover New Granada 
 Greece Oldenburgh Peru 
 
 TREATIES WITH AFRICAN CHIEFS. 
 Timmanus Feb. 1814 Cameroons May, 1841 
 Bonny April, 1841 Aboi Aug., 1841 
 Cartibar April, 1841 Egarra Sept., 1841 482 483 484 "That three years after the exchange of the ratifications it should not be lawful for the subjects of the Emperor of Brazil to be concerned in carrying on the African Slave Trade under any pretext, or in any manner whatever; and that the carrying on of such trade after that period by any person, a subject of Brazil, should be deemed and treated as piracy." 485 486 487 488 489 490
 Sir R. Peel  felt grateful to the hon. Member for his courtesy; but he had not understood that he was under any obligation to him in this matter. He did not propose to take any of those days which were now set apart for notices of Motions for Government business, until Thursday the 7th of June; and before that time he hoped the hon. Member would have an opportunity of bringing forward his Motion on some Tuesday or Thursday.
 Sir R. Peel  thought when the House remembered the number of Government measures which were yet to be discussed—many of them measures of great importance—he might allude especially to the Scotch and Irish Banking Bills — they would concur with him that every facility should be afforded for proceeding with the Government business. It had been usual to give up the Thursdays to Orders of the Day, at about the same period in previous Sessions, and he hoped no objection would be made on the present occasion. With regard to the Motion of the hon. Member for Sheffield, he did not see how he could afford him any facilities for bringing it forward, as he was already under an engagement to one hon. Gentleman (Mr. Ewart), to afford him an opportunity for bringing under discussion his Motion as to the duties on butter and cheese. The noble Lord's (Lord John Russell's) Motion was also fixed for a night which was usually set apart for Government business; and, looking at the state of that business, and the advanced period of the Session,
 435
 Sir R. Peel  said, the hon. Member could not be more disappointed than he was that the House was counted out yesterday. The hon. Member for Finsbury had made his statement, and it was most desirable that the Government should have an opportunity of replying to it. He could assure the hon. Member that it was not by the wish of the Government that the House was counted out, nor was any Member of the Government a party to that proceeding. There had been fewer instances this Session of the House being counted out, or of its failing to be made, than in any
 434
 Sir R. Peel  moved, in pursuance of the Notice he had given, that after Monday, the 2nd of June next, Orders of the Day have precedence of Notices of Motion on Thursdays. Looking at the state of the Public Business before the House, and the fact that it had been usual in former years to agree to such a Motion at about the same period of the Session, he hoped the House would acquiesce in this proposal. It would not, he believed, interfere with any existing Notice. Last year, a similar Resolution had been in operation from the 3rd of June.
 Lord Ingestre  was glad that that discussion with regard to manning the Navy had taken place, for no more important subject could come under their consideration; but he did think that the gallant Officer the Member for Brighton employed himself in searching out the grievances of seamen, as if they were not at present properly attended to. With regard to the crimp system, he believed that they would never get rid of it until they educated the seaman and elevated his moral character; when that should be accomplished, the sailor himself, feeling his own moral worth, would cause the system to be abandoned. He had ever been an advocate for the efficient manning of the Navy, and he believed that the ships were properly manned at present. In conclusion, he would repeat what he had before stated in that House, that he should always be happy to promote the interests of the British sailor, and to elevate his moral character.
 Viscount Palmerston  rose and said: I wish to make one or two observations on a subject to which I called the attention of the House on a former occasion—I mean the Slave Trade. I am induced to do this very much in consequence of the answer which the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) gave to the statement I then made, and which answer, I think, was by no means satisfactory. I wish, however, in the first place to request the attention of the House to the annual Slave Trade Papers. This is about the time when the annual Returns are received from foreign stations, and I hope the Papers may be presented at an earlier period than they have been for some years past. Of recent years the Papers have been presented very late in the Session, and sufficient opportunity has not been afforded for giving the documents a deliberate perusal. I know that the right hon. Baronet may tell me that when I was in office the annual Papers were sometimes presented very late in the Session; but during those years we had many difficult and complicated affairs in hand which prevented me from looking over those Papers as early as I could have wished, and no such conferences or negotiations are now going on. Passing that
 467 468 469 ipso facto 470 471 472 473 474 475 "You will further state that it appears that there are many British subjects now held in slavery in Cuba, and as it is impossible that Her Majesty's Government can permit any British subjects, be their colour what it may, to be held in slavery in a foreign country, Her Majesty's Government claim and demand as a right from the Government of Spain, that all such persons shall be immediately released, and shall be placed on board the  Romney, 476 477 478 sine quâ non, 479 480 481 *
 Viscount Palmerston  explained. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to suppose that he (Lord Palmerston) had argued that this country had a right to compel Spain to appoint a Mixed Commission. What he had argued was, that the Ministers should not have acquiesced in the refusal, but have made a counter proposal; nor did he argue that they should violate the law of nations, or do anything which the Treaties did not warrant. His argument was, to have Treaties with the parties, which, if carried faithfully into execution, would tend to suppress the Slave Trade.
 The Solicitor General  said: I beg, Sir, to call the attention of the House to a subject which is very materially connected with its privileges—I allude to the decision recently pronounced in Her Majesty's Court of Queen's Bench in the case of "Howard against Gossett," which was an action brought against the Sergeant-at-Arms for imprisonment, upon the authority of a warrant issued by the Speaker, in pursuance of an Order of the House. It will be in the recollection of the House, that in 1840, in the course of the discussion which took place on certain proceedings instituted by a person named Stockdale against Messrs. Hansard, the printers of the House, it was considered necessary that Mr. Howard, who had been concerned as attorney for Mr. Stockdale in that action, should attend at the Bar of the House for the purpose of being examined. Mr. Howard had notice, and was required to attend; but he did not pay attention to that notice, and in consequence an Order was made by the House that he should be brought to the Bar in the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms, and that the Speaker should issue his warrant accordingly. That warrant was issued, and Mr. Howard was taken into custody, and ultimately committed by an Order of the House to Newgate. In 1840, he brought an action against the Assistant Sergeant and three of the Officers of the House, who had been concerned in the execution of that warrant, for an excess of authority, of which he stated they had been guilty in executing the warrant, by remaining an unreasonable time in his house. My noble Friend Lord Campbell, then Attorney General, intimated to the House that he had received a communication from Mr. Howard, that it was not his intention to
 518 l. l. "That Sir William Gossett, the Sergeant-at-Arms of this House, have leave to appear to and defend the action brought against him by Thomas Burton Howard." "That William Bellamy, one of the messengers of this House, have leave to appear to and defend the action brought against him by Thomas Burton Howard; and that Her Majesty's Attorney General be directed to defend the said Sir William Gossett and William Bellamy against the said actions." 519 520 v.
 Mr. A. Lawson  moved that the debate be adjourned.
 Mr. Bickham Escott  said, he wished briefly to explain the reasons why he intended to give his vote in support of the original Motion, notwithstanding the speech of the Member for Dorsetshire. The whole of the debates on this subject were remarkable for one characteristic. He had heard other debates, wherein the preponderance of the arguments was all on one side; never one debate in which the arguments of the opponents of a measure told so entirely in favour of it. ["Oh!"] He did not expect that observation would prove palatable to those who had argued against this Bill. He wished its opponents to bear in mind that on this great question of conscience those who had professed to be the main supporters of the established religion of the country, had rested their opposition upon the question whether a sum of money to be given to an establishment, from which they differed, should be 9,000 l. l. l. 563 564 l. R. Inglis: 565 566
 Mr. C. Buller  said, he had told his hon. Friend the Member for Waterford that he was doing an exceedingly foolish thing in referring to the question of doctrine; that it was a subject on which it was by no means desirable to enter, as he might be sure they would have a volume of theology read on the other side as a reply to him; and they had that night witnessed the truth of his conjecture. They found that the hon. Member for Birmingham had been neglecting all the other questions in which he generally took so deep an interest, and had been devoting himself to the perusal of the voluminous works of Roman Catholic divines. He believed it was 140 folio volumes which St. Thomas Aquinas had left for the instruction of posterity, all of which hon. Members would be expected to go through; and then the hon. Gentleman had quotations from Taliocotious, and a variety of other men, all referring to the two or three doctrines which the hon. Member had brought forward in that House to condemn. The hon. Member had told them that, because these objectionable passages were to be found in the deep collections of some writers of the Roman Catholic Church whose works were read in Maynooth, and which remained as great monuments of barbarous times from former ages, that therefore the present grant was to be refused. Were they to be told that nothing
 575 576 577 578 l. 579 580 581 582 583 584
 Mr. M'Geachy : Mr. Speaker—Sir, having in vain attempted, in the earlier stages of this protracted debate, to catch your eye, I had at one period of these discussions determined to abandon my intention of addressing the House upon this question. But the character which the opposition to this measure has now assumed, the construction which has been placed upon the support given to the Government by some Members of their party, and the excitement of the popular feeling upon this subject, have determined me to place before the House, as concisely, and as distinctly as I can, the grounds on which I rest the vote which I shall give in favour of the third reading of this Bill. Sir, no man can accuse me of a servile acquiescence in the measures of Her Majesty's Government. Where I have honestly differed from that Government
 543 "Hoc fonte derivata clades, In patriam, populumque fluxit;" 544 545 magna est veritas et prævalebit, 546 prima facie 547 "The cruelty with which Cromwell," he observes, "put down the rebellion was no vice of the times. No, 'twas the outbreak of that uncharitable fury of men who think it a great argument of the truth of their religion, to endure no other but their own." "Not only was the alternative of Hell or Connaught offered by the Puritan conquerors to the Irish Catholics, but the harsh statutes of Elizabeth, which ordered their priests to be hung, drawn, and quartered, were repro-claimed, and strictly acted upon. They set the price of five pounds on the head of a priest and a wolf, and the production of the head equally entitled the beheader to the reward. The exercise of their religion, even in private, or the concealment of a priest, was punished with death." 548 549 550 551 "Although those Gentlemen may have supported the second reading of the Bill, it does not follow," they could observe, "that they are hopelessly committed to it. The representations of their friends may materially influence their future conduct." 552 the Caudine forks mutatis mutandis, 553 "Fellow countrymen, though we have endeavoured to address you calmly, we confess we are indignant at the combination of men of totally uncongenial politics to attack and undermine the Protestantism of this country. Be it ours to form a counter-alliance, based upon the primary doctrines of the Reformation, and upon a mutual forbearance with regard to minor differences. When the advocates of expediency combine, the friends of principle should unite together to resist a policy which is alike subversive of truth and justice." "Be it ours, then, in the spirit of charity towards our Roman Catholic fellow subjects" (not fellow Christians) "to unite together with a generous and honourable respect for one another's opinions, political and ecclesiastical, and by one great and holy confederation to defeat this iniquitous measure." "For his part, he would as soon entrust his children to the tender mercies of the polar bear, and the smiles of the hyæna, as think of entrusting them to the care of the English bishops." 554 "I believe these gentlemen to be the most inveterate enemies of freedom which the country contains—to stand opposed to the progress of knowledge any farther than they can control it—to be hostile to free inquiry, and to all true independency of mind." "So decided are my opinions on this subject," he goes on to say, "that were I to descend to my grave to-morrow, I should desire no more honourable eulogy on my tomb than this, which I have some prospect of enjoying—the loud and long execrations of the clergy of these realms." "In Government schools we could not hope for the inculcation of divine truth, but only of Church of England principles;" and, "that sooner than let his children learn the Church catechism, he would give them poison." "The violence of these men has made us ashamed of our company; it has done more—it has made us resolve, that the voice of our Christian protest shall not mingle with the insane howlings of politico-religious firebrands." 555 l. 556 557 Regium Donum in partibus, 558 559 "Ultima Cumæi venit jam carminis ætas; Magnus ab integro sæclorum nasciturordo. Jam redit et Virgo—redeunt Saturnia regna; Jam nova progenies cœlo demittitur alto." 560
 Mr. Bankes  rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice—that instead of the Bill being now read a third time, it be read a third time that day six months; which was equivalent to moving,
 526 527 528 529 "We, the undersigned clergy of your Lordship's diocese, feel it incumbent on us to make your Lordship acquainted with our feelings in reference to the Maynooth Bill, as it seems it has been said that great indifference exists in Ireland on the subject. We, therefore, desire to disabuse the public mind of such an impression, at least as far as regards ourselves." "We believe it calculated to encourage and render permanent the teaching of what we believe to be erroneous and antiscriptural." "Many considerations hitherto prevented us from taking an active part in opposition to the proposed grant; but, finding that our forbearance is mistaken, and our silence misrepresented, we cannot any longer consent to withhold the expression of our sentiments." J. Graham: J. Graham: W. Barron: 530 531 532 533 534 535 Member: "In the Session of the Irish Parliament of the year 1795, a Bill was introduced by the Secretary into the House of Commons, entitled 'An Act for the better Education of Persons professing the Popish or Roman Catholic Religion.' This Act empowered certain trustees therein named, to receive donations for establishing and endowing an academy for the education of persons professing the Roman Catholic Religion, and to acquire lands exempt from forfeiture by mortmain, not exceeding the yearly value of 1,000 l.; l. 536 l. l. l. l. 537 l. l. A General View of the State of Ireland; 538 l. "I have seen (said the writer of that pamphlet), the deliberations of their national assembly,
 539 540 l. 541 542 "When thousands had sunk to the ground overpowered, "The wearied to rest and the wounded to die—"
 Mr. Marsland  seconded the Motion. He did not wish to be considered as at all sanctioning the present position of the Established Church of Ireland, which being imposed by her powerful neighbour on an excitable and high-spirited people, was naturally regarded as a badge of degradation and servitude. It was not to increase, but to diminish, the number of Establishments, that he voted for the Motion of the hon. Member for Sheffield. He admitted,
 525 Regium Donum, Regium Donum
 Mr. Spooner  said, that the hon. Member who had last spoken, could not have attended to the arguments of hon. Members opposed to him in argument, if he considered that they argued the question as one of pounds, shillings, and pence—the difference between 9,000 l. l. 567 Laughter. 568 569 570 571 Secunda Secundæ, "That as soon as any Sovereign is sentenced to excommunication on account of apostacy from the faith, her subjects (or his) are  ipso facto 572 "We hold that baptism is the gate of the true Church (he had before said that Protestant baptism was valid baptism), and considering the Roman Catholic Church to be that Church, we consider all baptized persons to become members of the Roman Catholic Church." 573 574
 Mr. Mangles  was prepared to give his support to this measure. He fully agreed with the noble Lord the Member for Dorsetshire, that what was morally wrong could not be politically right; and, if it could be made out that this measure was morally wrong, he would not assent to it. But the principles of justice were at stake in this question, and he maintained that these principles ought not to be waved on account of circumstances arising out of the great religious revolution of the fifteenth century. The principles of justice had been grievously violated by our conduct towards Ireland. The taking away the Church property of the Roman Catholic majority, and giving it to the Protestant minority, was nothing less than an act of spoliation. As a Protestant he believed that the Church of Ireland had truth on its side; but he held
 561 562
 Mr. Ewart  said, that in justice to the principle which he was anxious to support, he could not consent to divide on that occasion. He should be satisfied with stating the grounds on which he should vote against the third reading of the Bill, though he dissented from the reasons of those with whom he should find himself associated.
 Mr. Ewart  rose to move as an Amendment, that—
 "While it is expedient to open the public Educational Establishments of Ireland to the Catholics, to reduce to its due dimensions the Irish Church, and to establish entire civil and religious equality between Great Britain and Ireland, it is not advisable to extend the principle of religious endowment by the State." 522 "Anon they move In perfect phalanx to the Dorian mood Of flutes and soft  recorders; Sonorous Oxford blowing martial sounds," odium theologicum; 523 524
 Sir R. Inglis  seconded the Amendment.
 Sir R. Inglis : I do not rise for the purpose of opposing the Motion of my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Abingdon; but when the noble Lord starts forward and accuses this House of pusillanimous neglect of its own rights and privileges, I, being one of those who thought that the House at the last moment, but not till the last moment, had shown a becoming deference to the laws of the country, under which the noble Lord, as an individual, and as a Member of this
 521
 Sir R. Peel  expressed his regret that the Motion for adjournment had been made, and ventured to prophesy that there would not be, if the debate were to begin at five o'clock the next day, and continue till ten, so many Members in the House as there were at that moment ready to give their attention to the arguments of any Gentleman who was disposed to address the House upon this measure. He must say that, except in the case of this Bill, he thought he had perceived during the present
 586
 Sir T. Fremantle  then rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill for establishing a central asylum for Criminal Lunatics, and to amend the Acts relating to Lunatic Asylums in Ireland. The right hon. Baronet stated that a Committee of the House of Commons had sat some years ago on this subject, which had drawn up a very elaborate Report, and made many important suggestions and recommendations upon it. Those recommendations had been embodied in the Bill he proposed to introduce, the principal one being that it was inexpedient to confine criminal lunatics in gaols and other places, as at present, and that it would be infinitely preferable to build a special asylum for that unfortunate class of persons. The hon. Baronet, after a few words on the minor provisions of the measure, moved for leave to introduce his Bill.
 Sir V. Blake  was grateful for the measure, and he thanked the Government with all his heart for it. He could not see how this measure, which would increase the prosperity of Ireland, could interfere with the Established Church in this country. He was therefore surprised at the outcry which had been raised against it. The hon. Member for Birmingham had read various theological extracts to the House to-night, but the opinions put forward in them were disclaimed by the priesthood and the people of Ireland. He thought that the Oath of Supremacy ought to be done away with. It was not his fault that it was not, for he made a Motion on the subject a Session or two ago, but he was opposed by the hon. Member for Birmingham and men of his kidney. He trusted that the course began by the Government would be followed out to a triumphant termination, and that the time would not be long before he beheld two Universities in the city of Dublin, one of them in the form it now stood, and the other on the other side of the question. As he said before, he thanked the Government for the boldness they had shown with regard to the present question.
 Viscount Howick : I shall not object to the Motion; but I cannot help saying that, in the present state of our information, I do feel the deepest regret that so soon should be realized the prediction made by my hon. Friend the Member for Worcester, as to what would be the result of the weak and pusillanimous course this House pursued when its privileges were first attacked. It is the realization of what I felt must be the consequence of that course. Thus are we dragged on little by little, and step by step, till we hold all our privileges at the mercy of the Courts of Law. For that I for one am not responsible, nor is my hon. Friend.
 Viscount Ingestre  wished very shortly to state the reasons which actuated him in giving a vote in favour of this measure, and in opposition to the wishes of many of his constituents, from whom he conscientiously, but with the greatest respect, differed in opinion on this subject. It was true he had hitherto always voted against the annual grant to Maynooth; but he did so because, having had an opportunity of visiting that establishment, he had felt it
 585
 The Solicitor General  moved to nominate the following Members as the Select Committee on Printed Papers:—Sir Robert Peel, Lord John Russell, Mr. Solicitor General, Sir Thomas Wilde, Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, Sir George Grey, Sir Robert Harry Inglis, Mr. Francis Baring. Viscount Mahon, Mr. Warburton, Mr. Wynn, Mr. Bernal, Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mr. Pigot, and the Lord Advocate.
 The Solicitor General  said, that the hon. Gentleman was perfectly correct in stating that another action had been brought by a person named Pearce, who was, he believed, a clerk to Howard, against the Sergeant-at-Arms; but under what circumstances the action was brought, or what was the form of the warrant, it was impossible for him to inform the House. He believed, however, that the warrant in the case of Pearce differed in many material respects from the other. But he did not know what was the object of the hon. Gentleman on the present occasion. Did the hon. Gentleman mean that they should rescind the vote of the House for a Select Committee to report to it on the subject of the action of Howard  v. 603
 Lord J. Russell  said, that that did not appear to him an improper opportunity for
 605
 Lord. J. Russell  was far from saying that in every case the House should order returns from corporations or colleges with respect either to their rents or their salaries; but he conceived that there had been a case made out for such a return in the present instance. In the first place, they were called upon to vote out of the taxes a considerable sum for the promotion of education and learning in Ireland; and secondly, there was a statement made by a Member of the House that seven of the senior Fellows of Trinity College divided amongst them the sum of 14,000 l.
 Lord J. Russell , in explanation, said, that the hon. Gentleman had omitted part of his argument. In quoting the authority of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Dungarvon, in reference to the income of the senior Fellows of Trinity College, Dublin, he not only stated that they had 2,000 l.
 Sir D. Norreys  said, that as far as he could judge, he had scarcely ever known a measure more honestly introduced into Parliament, and more honestly supported than the present. On this question nothing could be more honourable than the conduct of those English Representatives who belonged to that party to which he had the honour to be attached. They had refrained from taking any party advantage which the occasion might have offered for the purpose of damaging the Government,
 624
 Lord J. Russell  thought it would be unadvisable to come to a division upon the main question upon that occasion; and he therefore hoped such a proposition would not be persevered in, and that they could not divide upon it that night.
 Captain Rous  said, he brought forward two distinct charges, and he did not know how they could be misinterpreted by any living man; and if he was a director of the Company he would not sleep in his bed till the charges were entered into. He would be happy when the hon. Gentleman brought forward the question of New Zealand, to give an explanation of the whole principle on which the Company was based. But as the hon. Gentleman said that he was not prepared, God forbid that he should attack any man in that situation—that he should attack any man who was not prepared to defend himself in every way. He wished to bring the question forward for the sake of the Company themselves. He was ready at all times and seasons to do so, but if it were postponed to-night, he found he could not bring it forward before July; but if he were a director of the Company he would not sit still for six weeks under the imputation which was cast upon them.
 Captain Rous  said he should be sorry to interfere with the adjourned debate, but he hoped he might be permitted to state in a few words how he was situated. The last time he addressed the House on the subject of New Zealand he stated that the New Zealand Company got money under false pretences—that they decoyed labourers to the Colony, and then left them in a state of destitution. He was afraid, therefore, that if he did not take the earliest opportunity to bring forward his Motion, it might be said that he calumniated the Company; and he thought it right also to give the Company an opportunity of answering or explaining the charges he made; if they did which, he was ready to make an ample apology. There was a stigma cast upon the Company, and it was for their sake that he wished to bring forward the Motion; but, at the same time, he was the last person who would wish to stand in the way of the public business.
 Captain Rous  rose for the purpose of moving, agreeably to the Notice he had given, that the Treaty of Waitangi, confirmed and approved by Her Majesty, ought to be maintained with the strictest integrity, when
 Mr. Cholmondeley  said, that he was far from considering that measure as one of unalloyed good, and entirely free from any mixture of evil. He thought that it could not be unattended with some risk; but that risk he was willing to run for the good results which he believed would follow its passing; and he should, therefore, be prepared deliberately to give his vote in favour of the third reading of the Bill. With reference to the feelings of his constituents upon the subject, he should only observe, that he would not pay them the bad compliment of considering himself as their delegate, and not as their representative. It was his honest and conscientious belief, that in voting for the Motion before the House, he should be voting for a measure which would do much more good than harm; and which could not in any way endanger
 621 622
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that if he were satisfied, first, that if the Bill passed, the line would be carried out; and, secondly, that it would not prevent the formation of a better line at a future period, he should be prepared to support the decision of the Committee.
 Mr. Lawson  said, that he did not mean to make any reply to the observations of the hon. Baronet who had just sat down with respect to the Roman Catholic religion, because he thought that it would be much better not to enter into religious discussions in that House. He should take care that not a word which could offend the feelings of his Roman Catholic fellow subjects should fall from his lips. But he should, at the same time, feel it his duty to express his unqualified opposition to the measure then under the consideration of the House. He looked upon the Church of Ireland and the Church of England as one; and it was because he believed that if he were to vote in favour of that measure, he should be betraying the interests of the English no less than of the Irish Church, that he was decidedly hostile to the Bill. Since he had had the honour of a seat in that House, he had always voted against any grant to the College of Maynooth; and he did not see that difference between a smaller and a larger grant which some Gentlemen appeared to see, that could in-
 620
 Mr. Hawes  assured the noble Lord that the Committee had been satisfied on both these points.
 Mr. Hawes , as Chairman of the Committee, defended its decision, which had been pronounced on the merits of the case alone. It had been proved to their satisfaction, that the line would confer great local and public advantages.
 Mr. C. Buller  said that the hon. and gallant Member placed the postponement of his Motion on such grounds that it be came necessary for him to say, on the part of the New Zealand Company, that they were most anxious to hear his statement, and to have the question he meant to bring forward fully discussed; but, at the same time, he begged to tell the hon. and gallant Captain that he did not come down to the House prepared to discuss that night the question of the observance of the Treaty of Waitangi. He declared that till he came to the House he had not the slightest impression that the hon. and gallant Member would even take an opportunity of substantiating his charges. He never told them that he would bring it
 601
 Mr. E. Buller  understood the decision of the Committee had been come to by the casting vote of the Chairman. He had also learned that the Committee of the Board of Trade had recommended the postponement of the Bill until a future Session.
 Mr. Shaw  would object to any such return as that proposed by the hon. Member (Mr. Osborne). He would do so in very few words then, as the House was evidently indisposed to the very irregular course taken by the hon. Member in bringing forward a Notice which stood at the end of a long list; it being supposed that all would acquiesce, as all the other hon. Members in whose names Notices stood, had, in the general understanding of the House, that the adjourned debate on the Maynooth Bill was to be proceeded with—in a word, then, his objection was, that the House, which made no grant to the University of Dublin, had no right to require from them a return of their property; and that the inquiry sought was of a most invidious nature, scrutinizing the emoluments of every officer of the College, from the Provost downwards, where no abuse had been alleged, and no case attempted to be made for such an unusual course of proceeding. The English Universities were not subject to any such inquisitorial exercise of power on the part of that House; and why should the Irish University? The same Motion had been made last Session by the hon. Member for Waterford (Mr. Wyse), and resisted by the Government, on the grounds that he had stated; and, as he could have no doubt the Government would pursue the same course at present, he would not, on that very inopportune occasion, further trouble the House than to say, that he
 607
 Mr. Shaw  had so frequently experienced the indulgence of the House on former stages of the Bill, and the question had already been so fully discussed, that he would then trespass but shortly on their attention. He would endeavour to avoid ground which had been before debated, and apply himself principally to the features and circumstances of the measure which had been developed in the course of its progress; more particularly to their bearings and indications as regarded the general policy of the Government towards Ireland. The scheme had been originally put forward by its promoters as little more than an addition to the annual grant to Maynooth, and the execution of a compact entered into by the Irish Parliament in 1795; but that position had been abandoned — in fact, it was no longer tenable. Not to touch upon the arguments of the opponents of the measure, he would take, in proof of his assertion, a leading authority from amongst its advocates on each side of the House. His right hon. Friend the Member for Newark (Mr. Gladstone) described it as essentially a new measure, involving entirely new principles. The noble Lord the Member for London candidly and justly characterized it as differing both in degree and in kind from the relation which the State had previously borne to the College of Maynooth; and the noble Lord had correctly construed the Act of 1795, as an enabling Act to the Roman Catholics to found their own College, and to endow it from their own lands and money. It now appeared as if, when opportunity had been afforded to the Roman Catholics of Ireland to establish a College for their own priesthood, and that during the war, and while access to foreign education was peculiarly difficult, and even to the present day, Parliament kept propping up the system by annual contributions, so as to make that opportunity as ample and complete as possible; yet, that when the Roman Catholics of Ireland refused to avail themselves of it—not from want of liberality or of means, which never failed for objects
 631 632 633 634 635 636 637
 Sir H. W. Barron , in resuming the adjourned debate, said that he could perfectly well understand the opposition which had been offered to the Bill by the numerous Protestant Dissenters of England, who objected on principle to all grants by the State for religious purposes; but when he saw a large majority of the opponents of
 614 615 616 617 618 619
 Mr. Labouchere  replied that his noble Friend had never said that the Board of Trade ought to perform any such duty. He thought, however, that the Board might look into the matter, so as to be able to make some recommendation to the House as to the rate of charges they thought reasonable. No Railway Bill, he contended, ought to be read a third time until the proposition of the right hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire (Mr. S. Wortley) had been fully considered.
 Mr. Warburton  conceived there were sufficient precedents for acceding to the Motion. The inquiry into the charities of England and Wales, afforded a very conclusive one.
 Mr. Milnes Gaskell  denied that the present Government, or their supporters, were liable to any charge of inconsistency for the course which they had pursued upon this Bill. He saw that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Macaulay) entertained a different opinion; but he (Mr. Gaskell) must venture to dissent from it. For himself, at least, he could most truly say that no vote which he had ever given in that House had been actuated by a spirit of intolerance
 638 tabula rasa 639 "His idea had been not to apply tests to the religious tenets of the Catholics, but tests applicable to what was the source and foundation of the evil; to render the priests, instead of making them the instruments of poisoning the minds of the people, dependent in some sort upon the Government, and thus links, as it were, between the Government and the people. That would have been a wise and a comprehensive system; that would have been the system which he should have felt it to be his wish, and thought it to have been his duty, to have proposed." "That with respect to the principle of that measure, it was one which had been in contemplation long ago—in the time of Mr. Pitt;
 640 Regium Donum "His humble and decided opinion was, that the three religions prevalent more or less in various parts of these islands, ought all, in subordination to the legal establishments, to be countenanced, protected, cherished; and that in Ireland, particularly, the Roman Catholic religion should be upheld in high respect and veneration, and should be provided with the means of making it a blessing to the people who profess it: that it ought to be cherished as a good, not tolerated as an inevitable evil" 641 l. 642 "Carior est Divis homo quam sibi," 643 —"Non tamen irritum Quodcunque retro est efficiet, neque Diffinget infectumque reddet Quod fugiens semel hora vexit."
 Mr. Bright , who rose amidst loud calls for a division, said, he was anxious that the country should have every information respecting Trinity College; and if there was any thing in that institution not fit to meet the public eye, he did not see why the Government should vote for the concealment of this information. He should consider himself justified in voting against the proposition to endow Government Colleges in Ireland, so long as the Government refused to inform Parliament how the funds of Trinity College were
 612
 Mr. Colquhoun  said, that the noble Lord the Member for London had justified his vote upon two grounds—first, because they were about to vote from the taxes of the country a sum of money for the purposes of Education in Ireland. But they were going to do just the same thing in England; and if that argument were
 611 l.
 Mr. Ffolliott  was opposed to the Bill on
 623
 Colonel Rawdon  said: So many have been the speakers and so long the speeches, that till now I have had no opportunity of expressing the cordial concurrence of my Roman Catholic constituents and of the Roman Catholic Primate of all Ireland, who is one of them, with the measure now before us. Sir, I take this measure as an evidence of plain good intention—a principle which, Mr. Burke says, is of no mean force in the government of a people. I hail it as an attempt in part to efface the bitter recollection of bygone days, by the substitution of benign influence. And I think the Government is the more entitled to praise for the measure, because if we had urged it, the right hon. Baronet had a ready answer, and a perfect right to make use of it—that "you, the friends of Ireland, did not propose it." It is true we did not propose it—not because the necessity for it was not felt, but because from the state of parties then we could not have realized the proposition. And this reminds me of an expression used last night by the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard, which appeared to imply that in our support of the Minister, we somewhat lacked of grateful recollection towards those who had through bad and evil report fought the battle of Ireland. Sir, I beg he will not
 627 628 argumentum ad absurdum. 629 630
 Mr. Ricardo  begged to enter his protest against the further progress of the Bill. It would seriously injure his constituents, without at all serving the districts (the Potteries) through which it was intended to pass. He had presented petitions signed by 20,000 of his constituents, against the measure, which he trusted would have its proper weight with the House. He contended that the whole scheme was a mere juggle, seeing that the Standing Orders as regarded capital had not been complied with. The hon. Mem-
 595
 Mr. Wilson Patten  observed that the Bill had been referred to a Committee the Members of which had no personal interest in the measure. They had decided in favour of the line, considering that it would confer great advantages on the district through which it was to pass. He trusted that the House would not reverse the decision of the Committee.
 Mr. Hume  had from the first been opposed to any reference of such a question as the present to a Committee. He looked upon that to be only one mode of delaying the final settlement of the question. The House must take some decisive step to vindicate its own authority. It would appear that the highest tribunal in the kingdom had no means of carrying its own orders into effect. Every other court was endowed with such a power; but, from what had occurred, it seemed that the House of Commons was destitute of such a power.
 Mr. Hume  trusted that there would be no objection to the Motion. As public property, he should like to know what were the resources applicable to education, and what to other purposes, in Trinity College. Any objection to the Motion must have its origin in the fear that something wrong in the system might be exposed by it. At this time, when the country was being called upon to vote money for academical purposes in Ireland, he regarded such a Motion as peculiarly applicable and necessary, and he should therefore give it his most unqualified support.
 Mr. Hume  observed that it might be as well, perhaps, to take the division at once on the main question.
 Mr. B. Osborne  was greatly puzzled to understand what objection the Government could have to the Motion. He was glad, however, to find that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland had made a step in advance. At one time he had defended the Church of Ireland, and had denied the right of Parliament to make any inquiry with regard to it. The right hon. Gentleman had, however, that night admitted the right of Parliament to inquire into corporate property, and merely deprecated its doing so in the present instance. As the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government had not expressed any decided opinion on the subject, but had left himself at perfect liberty to agree to the Motion at some future period, he thought that some hon. Member ought to have moved the adjournment of the debate. He himself was precluded from doing so. With regard to the University of Dublin, he could not help remarking that it was represented in that House by two Gentlemen who had not been brought up in that University. He thought that that of itself almost formed a ground for inquiry. He begged to remind the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Shaw), that they had obtained Returns of the revenues of all the Bishops of Ireland; and he wished to know upon what ground the Government refused him the Return he had moved for. If the right hon. Baronet would give him a pledge that he would institute an inquiry, he would not trouble the House with dividing.
 Mr. Osborne  said, he should much have preferred that the debate on the Maynooth grant should have been disposed of last night, for he did not at all approve of the principle of withdrawing independent Motions
 606
 Mr. Osborne  hoped the right hon. Gentleman would fix another day for the Motion, otherwise he would persist in then dividing on the question.
 Mr. Bernal Osborne  moved that there be laid before this House—
 "A Return of all Moneys derived from Rents of College Lands, Endowments, Bequests, Fees on Matriculations, and taking of Degrees; specifying the amount of Income paid therefrom to the Senior and Junior Fellows, Professors, Scholars, and other Officers of Trinity College, Dublin."
 Mr. Bellew  contended, that it could not be said that the University of Dublin could make away with its property. It was accountable for its application; and he thought it important that the House should obtain the required Return.
 Mr. Bellew  rose, as a Catholic Member, principally to express his opinion on the Irish Church question. He entertained great respect for that portion of the population of Ireland who were Protestants. Though they constituted numerically a comparatively small proportion of the population, they were generally well educated; they occupied respectable positions in society; and from these circumstances they had attained much greater weight in the country than, in the proper order of things, they were entitled to. But he believed that an act of spoliation with respect to church property in Ireland had been committed in its being originally wrested from the Catholics. He considered also that, if that property were now taken altogether from the Protestants, another act of spoliation would be committed; but he believed it was matter of certainty that before many years elapsed some adjustment of that property must take place. He regarded the Bill now before the House as a most important step in that series of measures which were necessary to conciliate and tranquillize Ireland, and to promote the prosperity of this kingdom. By this
 644
 Mr. Godson  said, that having presented petitions against this measure, he was anxious to explain why he could not support their prayer. Having, as a Member
 625 l. l. l.; l. l. l.; l. l. l., l. l. 626 "And as a bird each fond endearment tries To tempt its new-fledged offspring to the skies, He tried each art, reprov'd each dull delay, Allur'd to brighter worlds, and led the way."
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the property of Trinity College consisted of a certain endowment by Bishop Thomas Baldwin; and a grant made by Elizabeth of the lands of the Earl of Desmond, which had been confiscated to the Crown. These lands lay principally in the county of Kerry; and they amounted to some hundred thousand acres. The House might perhaps draw a distinction with respect to Bishop Baldwin's endowment; but why was the grant made by the Crown, for a great national purpose, to be exempt from inquiry? What motive had they for hiding the extent of the funds of the College, and concealing the application of them? The other evening he stated that the senior Fellows of the College had 2,000 l. 608 l. l.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  supposed that the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford was fearful, if these Returns were obtained with regard to Trinity College, Dublin, that they would
 609 l.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  begged to ask a question of the hon. and learned Member. Another action, he had been informed, was brought against the Sergeant by the clerk of Mr. Howard, and he wished to know whether that was also to form a subject of inquiry before the Committee about to be appointed? The question had been now before the House during three Sessions, and it had been bandied to and fro between the courts and that place for a long period of time; he begged to know to what purpose or with what useful result? The Attorney General had formerly expressed in that House a very strong opinion that
 602 Solicitor General:
 Mr. M. Gibson  said, that the power of Parliament to inquire into such matters had been proved by the issuing of the Commission referred to by the hon. Member for Kendal; and the power of the Universities over Parliament had been proved by their obtaining an exemption from the inquiry. It was precisely the case of applying the principle of free trade to everything except corn and sugar.
 Mr. Gisborne  supported the Amendment. He contended that the Potteries had been worse treated than any other district, with respect to railway communication. Ten years ago they had obtained a Bill which they sold to the Grand Junction, on the understanding that that company would carry out the line themselves. Up to this time, however, they had been left wholly without railway accommodation. He believed that the only object of the Grand Junction Company, in now coming forward, was to shut out competition and to obtain a monopoly for themselves.
 Mr. Wyse  expressed a hope that the hon. and gallant Member who had moved the adjournment would persist in his Motion.
 Mr. Ewart  said, that the special exemption in favour of the English Universities, which had been so relied on by the right hon. Baronet, was far from being a good reason for refusing an inquiry into the case of Trinity College, Dublin. On the contrary, the fact of the exemption having been claimed, showed that the House had power to inquire.
 Mr. Ferrand  wished to put a question to Her Majesty's Government, of which he had not given them any notice, because he found that the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department was aware of the matter which he was about to bring forward, and if they required notice he would give it for to-morrow. He referred to a meeting which was to take place on the hill of Tara, a programme of which appeared in the  Dublin Freeman's Journal
 Colonel Verner  said, as several hon. Members, who were under the impression that no division would take place that night, had left the house, he would persevere in his motion for the adjournment. He therefore moved that the House should then adjourn.
 Colonel Verner  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 Sir G. Clerk  concurred with the noble Lord that it would be a very proper question for the consideration of the Board of Trade.
 Mr. Ward  thought the last statement of the right hon. Gentleman was a reason for the Government supporting the Motion this year.
 Mr. Ward  said, it was necessary for the House to act with caution in regard to the issuing of warrants, after the language that had been heard from the Bench by a Judge upon whose calmness of disposition, and whose learning and qualifications, the
 604
 Sir J. Graham  said, that the hon. Gentleman had given him no notice of the question he had just put; but he would nevertheless answer that he certainly was aware of the probability of a numerous assembly of the people of Ireland on the occasion to which the hon. Gentleman referred, and the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland had received directions from Her Majesty's Government that the peace of Ireland should be preserved according to the laws which existed at present.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that had the present conversation taken place on the preceding day, when the Committee was first proposed by the hon. and learned Solicitor General, it would have been appropriate; but the House having consented to nominate a Select Committee to inquire into the whole subject, he thought it was ill-timed. The question before the House was, whether the Motion which stood No. 14 on the Paper should proceed, and the names proposed by the hon. and learned Member and from the Chair should be those which were to constitute the Select Committee; in his opinion every question should stand on its own grounds, and not be mixed up with other extraneous matters. The question to be examined into was the nature of the decision, and the grounds upon which the Judges had decreed that the proceeding of the House was wrong. It was impossible for them to remedy the defect in their own proceedings. Nothing could eke out a defective warrant. If the warrant was illegal from informality, the person who resisted was justified in law. To try a principle, extreme cases should always be selected, and in the present instance that seemed to be the result that would be derived from the proceeding.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that the hon. Member for Dumfries had overstated the powers of the House. The Returns which the hon. Member had alluded to were made by Act of Parliament; but the Returns now required were proposed to be by the Order of the House. That made all the difference. There was no reason assigned for the Returns. He had not heard even an allegation of abuse. The only statement made was, that seven of the Fellows had 2,000 l.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, that in the whole course of the hundred hours' debate which had taken place upon this subject, there was scarcely one single point which remained undiscussed. Having already experienced the indulgence of the House, he should not ask their attention to-night if he had not felt that when there were calls for a division, it would not perhaps be deemed unbecoming, as he had taken a prominent part in this discussion from the beginning, if he then rose for the purpose of preventing this question from coming to a final division without endeavouring, for the last time, to recall to the attention of the House some of those views to which their attention had indeed been already directed. No man now contended, as it was contended by some hon. Members in an earlier part of this discussion, that there was any compact, direct or implied, entered into in relation to this grant, by which the nation was bound to maintain the College of Maynooth, and still less to increase the grant as it was now proposed. His right hon. Friend at the commencement of the discussion had stated, that there were three courses open to them; one of which was, the abandonment of the College alto-
 645 646 647 A cry of 648 649 A laugh. bonâ fide 650 651
 Sir R. Peel  was understood to concur in the propriety of this suggestion, although he had before voted against the adjournment, and had been taken rather by surprise by a proceeding which had occurred in the early part of the evening. A very large proportion of the House then present were not aware that about eight o'clock, when only about twenty-five Members were
 654
 Sir R. Peel  said, the hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr. Ewart) had stated that there was no reason why the University of Dublin should be exempted from the rule that had been applied to other cases. He doubted whether any such rule as seemed to be referred to had been applied by that House to the Universities of this country. He did not know any case in which that House had on its own authority called upon Oxford or Cambridge, or any University, for returns of its revenues. The question which they were discussing was, whether the House should, by its own authority, and not upon the authority of an Act of Parliament, order the Returns moved for. He doubted whether the House had the power to order such Returns. [Mr.  Ewart:
 Sir R. Peel  rose and said, he hoped his hon. and gallant Friend would wave the precedence to which he was entitled, and allow the adjourned debate to proceed. The hon. Member for Wolverhampton, who had a Motion second on the Paper, resigned his claim, on the understanding that the adjourned debate was to be pro-
 600
 Sir R. Peel  said, he thought an additional reason for not bringing on the Motion that night was, that he believed the House was not prepared for the discussion on the Motion of his hon. Friend. The general impression was that the Maynooth Bill would be proceeded with; and he doubted if those who were likely to take a part in the discussion on the New Zealand question were prepared for it.
 Sir R. Peel  said, the House could come to no determination as to the steps which it would be advisable to take until the writ was actually served upon their Sergeant. That step had not yet been taken; when it was accomplished the House would be informed of it by their officer, and then would be the proper moment for resolving what to do. The House would take no proceedings in the matter until it had a full knowledge of the judgment that had been pronounced by the Court. At the same time, he must recall to the recollection of hon. Members the fact that he had anticipated the judgment which now formed the subject of consideration, on an occasion when a noble and learned Judge had referred in another place to a speech which he had made on the subject, and he had anticipated that the decision would, as it had done, turn upon a technical point, and not upon the merits of the case.
 Sir T. Fremantle  did not deny the power of the House; but he deprecated the exercise of the power in this case.
 Sir T. Fremantle  said, it appeared to him that the precedents were the reverse of what was assumed by the hon. Gentleman. On the occasion of the inquiry alluded to, there was a special exemption in favour of the English Universities, and some of the public schools; and it was now proposed to deny a similar exemption to Trinity College, Dublin. The property held by the corporation of Trinity College was to a certain extent of a private nature; and he would not adopt a precedent in the case of that College from which the English Universities had been so expressly exempted.
 Sir T. Fremantle  was under an impression that the Motion would be postponed, as were several other Motions on the Paper. He hoped the hon. Member would not, under the circumstances, persevere in bringing it forward.
 Sir T. Fremantle  said, the House was evidently not prepared to enter on the question at that moment, as it was under an impression that hon. Members who had Notices of Motions would yield precedence to the Order of the Day for the adjourned debate on the Maynooth grant.
 Viscount Howick  took that opportunity of stating his opinion that it was incumbent on the Government to introduce some regulations with reference to the charges upon railways. In some cases charges were very high, and in others very low. His opinion was, that in some cases, higher charges were established than were consistent with the welfare of the public. This House ought at once to make these alterations, as they could not be made in the House of Lords. In one railway 3 d. d., d. d., d., d.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  moved the Second Reading of the Malt Drawback Bill.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  said, the object of the Bill was to allow a drawback on malt used for the feeding of cattle. He had understood that the Home Secretary and the Chancellor of the Exchequer were disposed to support the Bill.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  would postpone the second reading of the Bill.
 Mr. F. Mackenzie : After the allusions that have been made to me by the hon. Member for Newcastle—allusions which, although he did not mention my name, could not be mistaken by the House as intended to apply to me, and which I only wish had been more directly personal, and made in any other place than this—I am sure the House will admit that I have a claim upon their indulgence for a few moments. Sir, I deny in the presence of this House and the country that I have sacrificed my principles to place. I say it in the presence of the right hon. Baronet, who is the best judge in the matter, and I appeal to him to say whether any communication, either direct or indirect, took place between him and me previous to my vote upon the second reading of the Maynooth Bill. I maintain that the present question is different from the question which has hitherto come before the House in reference to Maynooth. The right hon. Baronet, when introducing the present measure, said that either of three courses were open to him—viz., to abolish the College altogether; to leave it as it is; or to endeavour to improve it—adding that he would rather abolish it than leave it as it is. Sir, I think that in that remark may be found a justification of my former vote. I felt that it was simply a question of leaving the College as it is, or taking away the grant; and the latter I preferred and voted for. But I do not at all see that by having done so I am precluded from voting in favour of this Bill, which does not leave the College as it is, that being the ground of my objection to the grant, but which goes to improve it. I stated that in my speech at Peebles—a speech that has been much referred to, and which has certainly caused more public remark than I expected it would, I had not the slightest idea that I was speaking in the presence of those who would not believe my words; I thought that I was addressing those who had confidence in my assertions. That speech, however, was reported, and the copy of the report which has been so much referred to has been taken entirely from the Radical Papers of Scotland; and the report is restricted to one part only of a sentence, in which I said that I had voted against the grant because it was too small: whereas I
 683
 Lord J. Russell : Sir, having had an opportunity of addressing the House upon this measure on a former occasion, I have but a few observations now to offer, and I should have been quite ready to have made those observations before the right hon. Gentleman, if I had been about to address anything to the House which would have required any answer from him; but they are rather observations referring to the part I have taken on this subject, and to the present state of Ireland, than to the immediate conduct of the Government. I wish, in the first place, to address a large body, who have not been much represented in this House, whose sentiments I have heard very little of in the course of these debates, but whose opinions I am accustomed highly to value, and who I am sure have come to their conclusions from conscientious conviction; I allude to the large body of the Protestant Dissenters of England. I find that they, differing very much from many who oppose this measure on the other side of the House, say that they are quite ready to do justice to Ireland, but that that justice ought to be done in another manner. They say, "Grant every franchise which Ireland can claim to put her on an equality with England, but do not do any favour to Romanism; if the Established Church be objected to, reduce the power of that Church, but do not give that power into the hands of the Roman Catholics." Now, I am not going to dis-
 738 739 740 741 l. 742 743 744
 Lord F. Egerton  stated, at that late hour he felt both physically and morally incapable of addressing the House at any great length. He was not like the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, an Irish Member, but an Englishman and a Protestant; and in that character he ventured respectfully to protest against the speeches of the hon. Members for Knaresborough and Kent, in which they represented themselves as speaking on this occasion the views of the Protestants of England. He would not take upon himself to
 723 724 in foro conscientiæ, 725 l., l., 726
 Lord Harry Vane,  rising at the fag-end of a long series of discussions, would have abstained at that period from taking any part in them, had he not received letters from constituents whose conscientious objections he sincerely respected, although he could not share them, expostulatory of his past vote, and earnestly entreating him to recede from that course which he still felt it an imperative duty to pursue to the end. He would accordingly very shortly and succinctly state the views which he took. He was one of those who had originally thought that the question now under consideration did not really possess all the importance that was given to it out of doors. The old grant to Maynooth voted by the Irish Parliament, and accepted by the Imperial Parliament, had endured during half a century with uninterrupted continuity. More than thirty years ago, the grant was increased, because the augmentation of population extended the spiritual requirements of the
 663 primar mobile 664 665
 Captain Layard  said, he considered himself fortunate to have fallen under the observation of the Speaker. For standing there as an Englishman, a Protestant, and an Irish Representative, he should have considered himself unfortunate if he had not been allowed to express his opinion. But before doing so he could not help referring to the speech made by the right hon. Gentleman the Recorder of Dublin. In that speech, the right hon. Gentleman had thought proper to tell the Prime Minister that he had acted unwisely in stating, as he did upon first coming into office, that Ireland would be his chief difficulty. Now, in his (Captain Layard's) opinion, the right hon. Gentleman had acted wisely in so doing. And when he made that prophecy, there was little doubt it would be fulfilled. Ireland had been a difficulty—was a difficulty—and would remain a difficulty until many more measures of a like complexion to the one under consideration were carried. And he (Captain Layard) would like to know if the hon. Recorder, or any other person, would have thought the right hon. Gentleman fit for a Prime Minister of this country, if he had not so considered it. Now, in his opinion, though the difficulty of governing Ireland might be great, that difficulty was greatly enhanced when the right hon. Baronet found every liberal measure thwarted by many of his own supporters. For his own part, he thought it a very affecting scene. When the Recorder took leave of his old loves—when he parted with that gay Lothario, the Prime Minister — who, though he had taken many liberties, he was determined should not entirely seduce him—whom with maiden modesty he parts with at the church door, but still casting one lingering look and giving one endearing word at this sad parting, said—
 "This leave taking was such sad sorrow, He could say farewell until to-morrow." 721 "It's good to be merry and wise, It's good to be honest and true, It's good to get rid of your old love Before you begin with a new—" Pilgrim's Progress, Beggar's Opera. "That he could not be happy with either," "Were t'other dear charmer away." l. 722
 Mr. Maclean  rose, after the brilliant speech of the noble Lord, only for the purpose of calling attention to a misinterpretation of the speech of his hon. Friend the Member for Newcastle, by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Cork. His hon. Friend had made no charge against the Roman Catholics; he had only stated certain facts; and had referred to a certain trial in proof of them. Then the hon. and learned Gentleman had taken the report of the same trial, and read to the House the evidence of one witness, without stating that the jury, consisting of six Roman Catholics and six Protestants, utterly disbelieved the testimony which he had given, and found a verdict against it. Surely, when arguing so important a question as the endowment of the Roman Catholic clergy—for that was the real question, it did not become the position of the hon. and learned Gentleman so to deal with the House. As to the speech of the noble Lord who had just sat down, it astonished him to hear that noble Lord urge again the arguments which he had used in 1824; which had been rejected by the Protestants of England, and had been at the time most satisfactorily refuted by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government. It was
 727 l.
 Mr. Cardwell  said, he did not know what the hon. Member considered to be the principle of this Bill; but, as it at present stood, he was not prepared to
 655
 Mr. Sergeant Murphy  could assure the House that if they would bear with him for a short time he would not inflict a speech on them. When he came down to the House that evening, he had no intention of addressing them, and he should not have done so but for the personal allusions which had been made to him by the hon. Member for Newcastle-under-Lyme. In the charges brought by the hon. Member against his countrymen, he said that there was a degree of bigotry manifested on the part of those professing the Catholic religion in that country which could not be surpassed. The hon. Gentleman said that there was a system of proselytism going on in Ireland, on the part of the Pro-
 716 717 l. s. nudum pactum
 Mr. Darby  complained that the right hon. Gentleman had assumed the Roman Catholic religion to have been the religion of Ireland from the earliest period, and upon that assumption he had proceeded to contend for the restitution of ecclesiastical property to the Irish Roman Catholic
 692 Universis Episcopis per Hiberniam, l. l., 693 694
 Mr. G. Palmer,  who rose amidst loud cries for a division, said, that the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government had no right to bring such aspersions as he had thrown out on his party; and say it was too bad in them to expect that he should look to them for advice, as to how he should carry on his Government. If the right hon. Baronet's party had voted with the hon. Member for Sheffield the other night, where would the right hon. Baronet have been by this time? They (the Conservative Members) had a right to look for the fulfilment of the pledges that had been either directly given, or given fairly and fully by implication. He maintained that they had been given directly by the right hon. Baronet, through the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, on one subject. The right hon. Baronet had called together, at his house, a meeting of Conservative Members. He must say, that he was at that meeting, when the right hon. Gentleman declared his adhesion to the sentiments uttered by a noble Lord now elsewhere; and when he told his supporters that they might consider the declarations of one Member of the Government, as the declarations of all its Members. He had a right, therefore, to ask what had been done by the noble Lord and his Colleagues, since their accession to office, with reference to that measure of the noble Lord's, which had led to the change of Ministers?
 Mr. Colquhoun : I come to a different conclusion from that at which my noble Friend (Lord H. Vane) has arrived, though in many of his remarks I concur. In the necessity for conducting the affairs of Ireland on a principle of firm and impartial Administration we are perfectly agreed. My noble Friend has spoken of the religious scruples felt upon this question. I should rather call them deep religious convictions, affecting both the moral and the temporal interests of the country; but into that portion of the argument which affects the religious view of this discussion, my hon. Friend, the Member for the University of Oxford has entered so fully as to supersede the necessity of my treading on a ground which he has occupied. I shall apply myself, therefore, as I have hitherto done, to the political view of this question. I shall regard it solely as a measure of State policy, and shall endeavour to trace its effects upon the political condition and future prospects of Ireland. Let me first advert to two incidental points raised in the present discussion. Some remarks last night fell from my right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Dublin—remarks of a personal nature, in which he will pardon me for saying that I am unable to agree with him. I do not dispute the right of my right hon. Friend to make these remarks; they have been called for in the vindication of his own character, in reply to observations addressed by the Secretary of State for the Home Department—observations which, I think, he will regret and recall; but knowing, as I do, the Secretary for the Home Department, and esteeming his character, I cannot for a moment suppose, that in his administration of Irish affairs (if, indeed, he is to be charged with their chief responsibility), he has been influenced by any but the purest motives, and the highest integrity. He may have erred in his administration, I think he has; but I am persuaded that convictions of public duty have prescribed the course which he has pursued. I make another remark, on an incident which
 666 667 Sergeant Murphy: 668 "Gentlemen, of all the cases that ever yet occurred, I have never heard, and I am sure you have never heard, one of which the spirit of persecution was proved to be more desperate, and more unrelenting. We have heard of riots at wakes; we have heard of struggles and outrages at funerals; we have heard of stones being pelted, unoffending people struck and assaulted as they passed on the high road; we have heard terms of opprobrium and insult applied to ministers of religion; we find that those gentlemen cannot move through the country, without being followed by insult and indignity. Gracious God! Is this a free country? Are we to be borne down by the tyranny of any body, or the oppression of persons of any persuasion? I appeal more strongly to the Roman Catholic than the Protestant; I call to him more impressively to go with me, than those of my own persuasion, because his is not the Church by the law of the land established. I tell him that if the principle is to go abroad, that the interests of religion are to be advanced through the agency of means worse than the terrors of the Inquisition, through the reckless, ignorant, brutal instruments of violence, there is an end to every thing like liberty of conscience, or the freedom of discussion. It is on the part of the Roman Catholics that I most strongly call for the protection of the law. If any one were to come forward, and assail them in the manner which you have heard that Protestants have been assailed, what would not be justly the cry? If, in places where Roman Catholics are in the inverse ratio of what they are in this part of the country, if in such places, I say, Roman Catholics were persecuted as we have heard the Dingle converts are in this county, what an outcry would be raised? If Roman Catholic clergymen were hooted and pelted through the Protestant districts of the north, insulted, reviled, called by indecent names, so disgusting, that they could not be mentioned in a court of justice, what would be the feelings of the Roman Catholics? They would say, and justly say, is this a country where discussion is allowed? where the principles of religion have existence at all?" 669 670 Nation, 671 Nation 672 673 674 Nation, "The veteran foes of Ireland, strong in office with an invincible majority, have fallen on their knees, and sought Ireland's pardon with affected candour, genuine alarm, and plenteous flattery; and they have been scoffed at as frightened hypocrites. Over the heads of the Ministers Ireland has saluted her American ally with a hearty cheer. The Maynooth Bill, wherein they abandoned all their own principles in order to vitiate ours, has been taken as a bold instalment, signal chiefly for the gigantic apostacy which introduced, and the monstrous bigotry which opposed it. If the Queen conies she shall be welcomed with the cry of Repeal; in our thoroughfares it shall make her coursers tremble; in her revels it shall break in like a round shot; in her levee it shall approach her in the green uniform of the new volunteer; in her Council it shall reach her. A confederate nation's demand for an army and a senate of their own." "Much has been said," says that right rev. gentleman, "about the gratitude we owe for the grant to Maynooth; but I confess that I for one, and I am joined in the sentiment by the priests and the people of this diocese, feel no gratitude whatever. In the first place, our own energies and determination wrung that paltry sum from a bigoted and Anti-Irish Cabinet; nor shall we ever thank the rich glutton when he disdainfully flings us the crumbs from his table. Secondly, the grant is so miserable in amount, that it can be looked upon in no other light than as a sheer mockery and insult. We want and demand a Repeal of the iniquitous Union. There is no other remedy for the wrongs of our country." 675 Journal des Débats, "We are aware that circumstances have changed; in 1840 a war had not arisen between the State and a portion of the clergy. The Ultramontane doctrines slumbered, and might have been considered for ever extinguished." Edinburgh Review, Edinburgh Review "The first dream of the (French) Government was to consolidate its authority at home by making allies of the priesthood. Every indulgence which could be shown without arousing the jealous spirit of the Liberal party, has for years been vouchsafed to the High Church
 676 677 678 679 680 681 mésalliances. 682
 Mr. Plumptre  entreated Her Majesty's Government to accede to the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman, and grant a Select Committee to inquire into the class books of Maynooth. If they did, he would be prepared to move it, as an Amendment, on the Question that the Bill do pass. He had several times invited them to investigate the subject; but he had been always met with refusal, on the ground that they would not interfere with the discipline of the College. That system of non-interference was one of the gravest complaints
 715
 Mr. Sheil : There are circumstances connected with the first establishment of Maynooth, having no sort of concern with the question of contract, of which the House has already heard enough, to which the remarkable speech of the First Lord of the Treasury, made in the 19th of April, induces me to refer. In the fourth volume of the Correspondence of Edmund Burke, which was published last year by Lord Fitzwilliam, I find in page 321 the following words:—
 "If that business is conducted as it ought to be (or merely as it will be, if the hands of jobbers are kept out of it), I expect more good from it than from anything which has happened in our age." 708 709 710 711 l. 712 Malum Prohibitum, Malum in se; 713 714
 Mr. Mangles  said, he did not wish to enter into the question respecting our relations with Scinde and the Punjaub. His desire was, that the House should be put in possession of such information, as to the revenue and the judicial and financial affairs of Scinde, as there could be no necessity for keeping secret.
 Mr. Mangles  said, he would take this opportunity of putting to the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) the question of which he had given notice last week as to the administration of the province of Scinde. It would be necessary for him to say a few words by way of explanation, in order to render the question intelligible to the House. The House was doubtless aware that, by the constitution of the East India Company, a portion of their body formed a Secret Committee, consisting generally of the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman, and some members of the Court of Directors, to whom matters of great and urgent importance were referred. It was provided by the Act of Parliament that in any matters relating to the levying of war, or making peace, or to negotiations with the native princes and states in India, orders might be sent through the Secret Committee. It was evident from the Acts of Parliament that matters relating to the levying of war, or making peace, or other questions of urgent importance, were to be under the control of the Secret Committee. The House might not be aware that the general body of the Court of Directors had no more cognizance of the proceedings of the Secret Committee than they had of subjects under the consideration of Her Majesty's Cabinet. The facts to which he wished to invite the attention of the House were these:—Nearly three years since the East India Company had acquired possession of the province of Scinde and the whole government of that country (not merely its political relations, but its revenue, and the administration of justice)
 656 Cries of
 Mr T. S. Duncombe  said, that notwithstanding the lateness of the hour, he should now propose the clause of which he had given notice; and which was to the effect, that this Bill should not continue in effect longer than the month of
 749 750 "And be it Enacted, That the Powers and Provisions of this Act shall not continue and be in force longer than the first day of August, one thousand eight hundred and forty-eight, and from thence to the end of the then next Session of Parliament."
 Mr. Wyse  said, that the speech which they had heard from the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Colquhoun) would seem intended for the discussion of the general question of Irish policy, rather than for a debate concerning an educational establishment, which had been over and over again before the House. Much stress had been laid on the opinion expressed by the people of England on the subject of this grant. That opinion he could only collect from the petitions which had been presented to the House, and from resolutions passed at public meetings. With regard to petitions, he did not undervalue their importance. It was a right belonging to and inherited by the people, equally with that of the liberty of the press, and was as valuable and as essential as any portion of the British Constitution. He, therefore, would be very sorry to show any disrespect to the petitions which had been presented on this question; but he could not recognise, either in their number or in the amount of signatures they bore, that universal expresssion of opinion on the part of the people of England, before which the House of Commons ought to bow. Many of the petitions had not more than three or four signatures; others were signed solely by the clergyman of the parish. Many were from large dissenting communities, the importance of which no one more readily acknowledged than he did—for no one less doubted their influence, and these were the legitimate expressions of their real feelings; while others were the result of a cleverly conducted machinery. A form of petition against the grant had been issued by the Presbytery of Edinburgh, and printed in the  North General Advertiser, 684 685 "Our Roman Catholic fellow subjects cannot justly complain of us when we protest against any grant of our money being made to their seminary at Maynooth, since we neither receive nor ask any grant of their money for our religious institutions; and should they reply that the united Legislature burdens them with the support of the Protestant institutions of others, though not ours, our rejoinder is, that they are in this respect no worse situated than we are." l. l.; l.; l. l. l., l.; l., l. l.; l.; l. 686 l.; l. l.; l. "The number of Papists in Ireland was so great, that it was of the utmost consequence to the Protestant interest there to bring them over by all Christian methods to the Established Church." l., l. l. l. l. 687 l. l. 688 concordat Regium Donum 689 690 "See how rich a Christian is, since he cannot lose his soul, do what he will, unless he refuse to believe; for no sin can damn him but unbelief." "Ita vides quam dives sit homo Christianus, etiam volens non potest perdere salutem suum, quantiscumque peccatis nisi nolit credere. Nulla enim peccata eum possunt damnare, nisi sola incredulitas." 691 Quos ego, motos præstat componere fluctus
 Mr. Ferrand  would not occupy the attention of the House for more than five minutes; but before the House divided on this important question, he wished to call to the recollection of the Government, and to that also of some hon. Members not belonging to the Government, the advice given by the right hon. Member for Tamworth while he was in Opposition. When that right hon. Baronet found himself in a minority in the House of Commons, he appealed from the House of Commons to the people of England, and he said to them, "You must fight the battle of the Constitution in the Registration Courts." What was the result of that declaration? A House of Commons was returned, the majority of which proved to
 718
 Colonel Verner,  in resuming the debate said, that having had the honour to present several petitions from Ireland, signed by Protestants, who pray that the Bill for the endowment of Maynooth may not pass into a law, since he last addressed the House, he felt called upon to say a few words in reference to those petitions; but, more particularly did he feel called upon to notice what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, in reply to an assertion made by him (Colonel Verner), that the Protestants of Ireland were unfavourable to the measure now before the House. The right hon. Baronet had inferred an acquiescence on the part of the Irish Protestants to this measure, because they did not petition against it in large numbers. It appeared to him that it would have been much more correct, had the right hon. Baronet argued the contrary. There was nothing to prevent their making known their wishes in favour of the Bill—there was much to
 658 659
 Sir J. Graham : Sir, the debate on the
 695 696 697 Dublin Evening Mail, 698 699 "That there is one fundamental principle of union in a steady abhorrence of the Roman Catholic religion." 700 l. 701 l. 702 ex officio 703 "If the civil authority, out of its good will, shall come forward to aid by its bounty in the institution of ecclesiastical colleges, unquestionably it has a right to expect some return for its liberality; and it will be paid back with interest by the services of religion, in promoting social order through its influence over the hearts of men, where the lawgiver will find the best sanction of his laws, as it is there, and there alone, the monarch can lay the sure foundation of his throne. If the bouuty of the State be a support to religion, religion is a necessary supplement to the power of the State, nay, for what it receives it renders back a hundredfold." 704 "It might be doubted whether the influence of the Roman Catholic clergy in Ireland was not the most powerful instrument that existed in that country, to direct the minds of the people, not merely with respect to their spiritual, but their temporal concerns. How important, then, to the peace as well as social and moral improvement of the country, that the clergy of so large a proportion of the people should be connected with the State by every tie of common interest which may be compatible with the principles of their religion, and the character of its ministers! When he expressed his desire to see such a connexion established, it was not in the expectation of imposing upon them any unbecoming or unworthy influence which might lower them in
 705 "The measures contemplated by Her Majesty's Government, were measures for conciliating the warmest affections of the Irish people, whose interests and feelings must be consulted, and for ensuring the success of the system of unreserved benevolence and kindness towards the great body of the people of Ireland." 706 "I will try your doctrine, I will put it to you in the shape of a Protestant clergyman addressing a Protestant audience, 'Do unto others as you would have them do unto you; love your neighbour as yourself, nay, love your enemies; and may the Almighty incline your hearts to hate and to despise the Christian ministers of a large body of your fellow subjects!'" 707
 Sir R. Peel : The hon. Gentleman must have greatly misunderstood what I said. I said, I felt convinced that those who differed from me, did so from conscientious feelings; but that, when I was charged with betraying my party, and acting as a traitor towards them, I would not consent to hold office on the servile tenure of asking every man's opinion as to any recommendation I should give my Sovereign.
 Sir R. Peel : I admit, Mr. Speaker, the reasonableness of the demand which the House appears so evidently to make for an immediate division on this subject, considering the length of time during which it has now been pressed upon the attention of the House. I am not accordingly about to enter into a detailed discussion of this question, the merits of which have now been altogether exhausted. I have myself besides had the opportunity, during the course of the discussion, of repeatedly addressing the House, and I have now nothing to add to the statements which I have already made, as to the motives and grounds on which Her Majesty's Government have introduced this Bill. I am un-
 728 729 "Friday, the 11th of May, 1798—present, Lord Fingal, in the chair; Lord Gormanston, Dr. O'Reilly, Dr. Moylan, Dr. French, Lord Kenmare, Dr. Troy, Dr. Plunkett, and Dr. Cruise." "The trustees, considering with grief the unhappy system of political delirium which, after having marked its progress through some of the most cultivated parts of Christendom, by the destruction of order, morality, and religion, appears to have made such strides in this kingdom as menace ruin to everything we should venerate and esteem as Christians and as men, and deeply sensible of the perfect opposition between every part of such pernicious system, and the beneficent objects of the institution over which they preside, think it expedient to order that the president be directed to maintain the most vigilant inspection over the conduct of every individual admitted in any manner to a participation of the benefits of the College; that he be empowered, and he is hereby empowered, to punish by expulsion such persons or persons as may by their actions or discourse abet or support any doctrines tending to subvert a due regard to the established authorities; and that the scholars and students be admonished that on those topics, and in these critical times, a conduct not only free from crime, but even from sus-
 730 "The above instruction was sent immediately to the president, who, after a solemn investigation, expelled every individual in the seminary who appeared to have formed any engagement whatever with the Society of United Irishmen, although they all expressed the greatest sorrow, and took the Oath of Allegiance after the said investigation." "I am sorry to say that a very different construction was put upon the proceedings of the House of Lords, and there was not a person amongst those whom I saw on Tuesday morning who did not conceive that this institution of Maynooth was entirely done away; and many of them were so blinded by their Protestant zeal as to exult exceedingly in the justice of the punishment which they conceived to be thereby inflicted on the Catholics for their late offences. When that opinion universally prevails at Dublin, there can be no doubt that the emissaries of faction, as well as of treason, will be very active in conveying it to every corner of the kingdom, and that it will most powerfully tend to inflame the minds of the Catholics of all orders against the Government, on the evil consequences of which it is, I am sure, unnecessary for me to expatiate." 731 732 Colquhoun: Colquhoun 733 734 735 736 737
 Sir R. Peel  said, he was not prepared for the last question of the hon. Member, which was not included in the Notice he had given. The general rule was in favour of delivering to the jurisdiction of the Court of Directors, at as early a period as possible, any new territorial district which might be incorporated with the general territories of the East India Company; but in the case of new territories, where a government had been established, it was usual to leave them for a certain period under the exclusive control of the Secret Committee. The province of Scinde had been peculiarly situated; for very recently military operations had been conducted in the country, which had been rendered necessary for the maintenance of order, and which had been completely successful. The government of
 657
 Sir R. Peel  said, that his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had made very extensive inquiries through the medium of the Excise, and he found that there would be great difficulty in carrying out the provisions of this Bill.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the argument of the hon. Member was not applicable, as there had been many instances of permanent grants out of the Consolidated Fund. The proposed clause could not remove any of the objections to the measure, whilst it would affect its beneficial influence. He must give his decided opposition to the clause.
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  rose to move the following Resolution, in conformity with that recommended by the first Report of the Committee on Railways of last Session; viz., that the following clause be inserted in all Railway Bills passing through this House:—
 "And be it further Enacted, That nothing herein contained shall be deemed or construed to exempt the Railway by this or the said recited Acts authorised to be made from the provisions of any general Act relating to such Bills, or of any general Act relating to Railways, which may hereafter pass during the present or any future Session of Parliament."
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  said, as no objection existed to his Motion, he did not see why it should not be at once agreed to. The proposition of the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland might be discussed as a substantive Motion on Monday.
 Mr. Fitzroy  said, that with respect to the wish of the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had just addressed the House, that some nautical man should fill the situation which he (Mr. Fitzroy) held at the Board of Admiralty, that was a matter altogether beside the question under consideration; and, therefore, he should not enter upon it. All he could say was, that he had stated that some of the observations of the hon. and gallant Commodore (Sir C. Napier) were calculated to do a great deal of harm. He now repeated that he did think that the system of depreciating our own naval service and of elevating others in comparison, was not exactly the method of inspiring our seamen with that courage which rendered them so pre-eminent during the last war. Falling from a man of the hon. and gallant Commodore's distinguished courage, and, on many subjects, well known ability, he contended that it was the worst system which could be adopted to be continually introducing such discussions as these, and on every possible occasion pointing out to Foreign Powers our inferiority to them. These were the sentiments which he honestly entertained, and he repeated that he considered such discussions to be decidedly indiscreet.
 Captain Berkeley  said, the gallant Officer opposite had complained that several Naval Officers on his (the Opposition) side of the House, seemed to make it their sole business to find fault with the proceedings of the Board of Admiralty. That he emphatically denied; for he and the gallant Officers near him, were always ready to give the present Board of Admiralty any credit they deserved. He must say, that
 818 Gorgon Cyclops
 Mr. Bernal  conceived that the present discussion was irregular, as there were particular items in the Estimates which
 819 820
 Captain Berkeley  thought the hon. and gallant Officer was speaking rather of the state of things many years ago than at the present time. Masters were now required to enter as masters' assistants, and to go through an apprenticeship in the service. If the gallant Admiral looked at the present regulations of the service, he would find he was mistaken.
 Mr. Williams  complained of the pensions for officers of the Navy, and especially of the number of half-pay officers. There were more men receiving half-pay at the present day than immediately after the war—thirty years ago. There were 4,200 widows of various persons connected
 824
 Captain Berkeley  remarked, with reference to what had been said as to an officer's political opinions influencing the chance of his promotion, that the hon. and gallant Commodore near him (Sir C. Napier) had stated in the House, that the hon. and gallant Officer opposite (Sir G. Cockburn) had told him, that he (Sir C. Napier) was to have the command of the experimental squadron. They all thought, in consequence of this, that it was a settled matter; but, when the hon. and gallant Gentleman went to the Admiralty upon the business, he was told that he was too much of a party man to have the command of the fleet in question. This had been stated in the House, and had not been contradicted.
 Captain Rous , in reference to the complaints of the examinations for lieutenant, and in reference to Admiral Hyde Parker himself, recollected what had taken place with a midshipman passed by Admiral Hyde Parker. He stuttered so much he was wholly unfit for his duty; but the only way in which he could be got rid of was to invalid him. He was, therefore, brought before three invaliding captains, of whom this very Admiral Hyde Parker was one; and the admiral exclaimed, "Who the devil passed you?" and the midshipman stuttered out, "You did." In his opinion the mates ought to be examined by the Trinity Board.
 Captain Rous  said, a midshipman of six years' service ought to be able to pass
 823
 Lord G. Somerset  would not enter into a discussion upon the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland, because he thought it ought not to be brought before the House without due consideration. Due notice, however, had been given by the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire of his proposition; and yet the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland introduced another proposition involving still more extensive alterations in respect to railway regulations. He would not say whether the noble Lord's proposition should or should not be adopted; but he would now decidedly vote against it as an Amendment to the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire, because it would evince a dissatisfaction with the proceedings of the Select Committees which had been already appointed. He should certainly say that these Committees had exercised a sound judgment as far as the maximum rate of charges was concerned. What struck him was, in the decisions of these Committees, the great similarity which appeared to exist in respect to these charges, and that the Committees might not, perhaps, have considered the peculiar circumstances of the different railways. Why should they suppose that the same rate of charges should be applicable to every railway? It was true that there ought to be a power of revision in respect to those charges under certain restrictions; but the Act of last Session had given them a strong power on this point. There were regulations already entered into which empowered them, after a certain period of years, to revise the rates that may have been
 803
 The Speaker  said, that the old rule
 805
 Mr. Labouchere  observed, that the House had this Session directed Committees upon Railway Bills to settle the amount of rates on railways. It was, however, quite manifest, that if they acceded to the recommendation of the various Committees without further inquiry and more investigation, the step that they had taken would be rendered absolutely nugatory. The course which had been taken by these Committees had been so extremely various that the House ought to interfere in the matter. He thought, then, that the proper course to take was that which was proposed by his noble Friend the Member for Sunderland. He admitted that it was very difficult for the House to fix the maximum rate of charges; but the Resolution before the House only gave them the power of doing this thing—it did not oblige them to do it. The House would, no doubt, exercise that power discreetly, considerately, and with reference to the circumstances connected with each case. Of all the fears that could be entertained, it was in his opinion the most idle fear to suppose that the House would deal hardly against these railway companies, in consequence of its zeal to protect the public against them. His experience was decidedly against such an apprehension. The interest in respect to these railways was daily increasing, and was brought to bear by much canvassing among its Members. The real danger to be feared was, whether they might be induced to shrink from the performance of their duties to the country, which, as a House of Commons, they were bound to perform. He had no fear that they would run any risk of doing any injustice to these companies by discouraging these railway schemes. This was a question of the utmost importance for them to consider. They should keep this power in their hands, not for the purpose of exacting unfair conditions, but with the view of taking proper precaution that justice should be done to the community at large. He felt strongly upon this subject, and he thought that the House should accede to the very moderate and reasonable proposal that was now made. He had given notice to the Vice President of the Board of Trade of his intention to put a question to him on Monday next, with reference to the immense quantity of railway business that was before the House, and the delay which had
 802
 Mr. Warburton  said, he thought, before they assented to either proposition, they should first see how far the Committees had carried out the principle the House had affirmed. The principle adopted in France was, not to grant privileges to railway companies in perpetuity, but to restrict them to a term generally of thirty-three years. The tendency of all the Reports of our Board of Trade had been to throw all the railway traffic in the various districts into the hands of a small number of companies; and the question had now arisen, were they to maintain this monopoly, or to throw it open to public competition? He thought they were bound to protect the public against extravagant charges; but at the same time he should wish, before he acceded to this Motion, to know how this object had been secured by the powers they had recently delegated to the Committees.
 Mr. Hume  was sorry to hear any language used in that House which would convey an opinion to parties out of the House that there were great defects in our Navy. At the same time, if there were defects, the Government ought to be obliged to those who pointed them out. He regretted very much that the School of Naval Architecture had been put down; but if they had at the present moment as many ships as they required, why build more until they had ascertained the best construction? He thought that a case had been made out why no more money should be spent, on the scale proposed by the right hon. Baronet opposite, for completing the steam navy, until better means were adopted for discovering the most advantageous mode of building the vessels.
 Mr. Hume  thought that they should not maintain a larger naval force than was necessary; but every ship kept up ought to be in the most perfect order. He thought that this particular rate was extravagant, and the circumstances of the country did not warrant it at that time.
 Mr. Hume  said that, respecting the Motion which he had given for a call of the House, he was sorry that there was no House yesterday. In his early days the custom was, when there was not a sufficient number of Members present, to send the Sergeant-at-Arms with the mace into the Committee rooms, and to summon the Members to attend. He happened to be in a Committee room yesterday at four o'clock with six or seven Members, and if the old rule had been followed a House might easily have been made. He thought the rule a good one, and hoped it would be carried out in future. With regard to his Motion for a call of the House, he had received from the Clerk of the House a statement of the number of Members serving upon Public and Private Committees and the number of Committees which had yet to be appointed, and he had been informed by the Clerk that every group had already been provided for, and that the Members required had been found. That being the case he wished his notice for the call of the House to be dropped.
 Mr. Somes  said, this was not the first time that he had heard the hon. and gallant Commodore using the very same arguments for the purpose of lowering the Board of Admiralty with regard to the mode of building steam vessels. Now, he thought he had had as much experience as the hon. and gallant Commodore in steam operations. The hon. and gallant Gentleman had been finding fault with many of Her Majesty's steam vessels because they could not fire the guns out of their stern ports on the main deck. He had been on board the  Terrible 813 C. Napier: Terrible C. Napier:
 Mr. Somes  said, he could not recommend the adoption of the marine glue for general use in vessels so confidently as the hon. and gallant Member had done, because he had had no sufficient opportunity as yet of testing its properties. He had used it in a ship of his lately launched, and from his observation of its efficacy so far as that enabled him to judge, he had formed a good opinion of its value. Still he had not sufficient experience to enable him confidently to recommend the adoption of it in Her Majesty's Navy, without further trial.
 Mr. Gisborne  said, the words added by the noble Lord made the Resolution of considerably more importance. It was only a few weeks ago that the House determined to impose upon Railway Committees the duty of determining what these rates of charge should be. At that time he advised the House not to place too much confidence in the value of that Resolution; and now, after a few weeks' trial, the noble Lord said it worked so badly that it must be altered. He should like to know, however, in what manner that House was to review the rates of charge. The Committees had the means of ascertaining what they should be, since they could impose upon the promoters of the Bills the necessity of giving evidence before them on the subject; and they had already done so in conformity with the power delegated to them by the House. Were they then going to overturn the decisions of the Committees, and to alter the rates without hearing the parties again on the subject. It was desirable to assimilate
 800
 Sir C. Napier  said, he thought it necessary to call the attention of the House to the first Vote on the Estimates, on the Motion for going into a Committee. It
 806 l. l. s. d. l. s. d.; l. s. d.; l. Queen Albion. Queen. Royal Sovereign Victoria, Princess Royal, Queen Queen 807 Albion Queen. Majestic Madras. Vanguard, Royal Albert, Prince of Wales, Windsor Castle, St. Jean d'Acre, Queen Queen. 808 Firebrand G. Cockburn: Firebrand Retribution. 809 Firebrand, Retribution Retribution? Gladiator Samson Terrible Terrible. Avenger, Dragon, Centaur. 810 l. l. G. Cockburn: Vanguard Albion G. Cockburn: Terrible. Excellent. G. Cockburn; 811 G. Cockburn: Corry: H. Fitzroy: 812
 Sir C. Napier  observed that the hon. and gallant Member for Gloucester had misunderstood him as to what he had said with respect to steamers going into action.
 Sir C. Napier  said, he had been astonished at the speech of the hon. Member for Dartmouth. The hon. Member said the  Terrible Gorgon Cyclops
 Sir C. Napier  called the attention of the House to the condition of the masters in the Navy. They were entitled to higher rewards. The rank of second lieutenant should be opened to them, and the position of masters should be done away with. He would be glad to know from the gallant Officer whether there was any intention to ameliorate their condition? There had been several improvements in the Navy lately, and he believed more were intended. Amongst them he hoped that a benefit to the masters would be included.
 Sir C. Napier  said, that whenever he or any other Officer in that House pointed out the inefficiency of the officers in the Navy, they were told that they were detracting the service. He did not wish to do this; but he would say that the Navy was not properly officered, and that had been the opinion of Lord Collingwood, no mean authority on such a subject. As to the masters, he still thought that they were ill treated.
 Sir C. Napier  said, that as the gallant Admiral had told his story, it was right that he should tell his own. He had chanced to see Lord Haddington; the conversation turned on the subject of the experimental squadron. He then said, "I wish you would give me the experimental squadron, and I will give you a fair report." Afterwards, talking about the experimental squadron with the gallant Admiral, he had said, "I wish you would give me the command, and you shall know all about it." The answer of the gallant Admiral was, "You are just the very fellow we want; you are a straightforward sort of person; we shall get the truth from you." The reply was, "If you send me in command of the experimental squadron, I will tell you the truth, whether you like it or do not like it." The gallant Admiral then said, "What ship would you like? Would you like the  Canopus? St. Vincent; 826
 Sir G. Clerk  thought the proper rate of fares could only be satisfactorily considered by the Committees upon these Railway Bills. The Resolution of the noble Lord would be calculated to do great injustice to railway companies, for it might have the effect of fixing a maximum rate of fares, which would entail much mischief. The Resolution of the noble Lord would also prove inconsistent with the Act of last Session, for that Act gave a power to the House to interfere after a lapse of twenty-one years.
 Sir G. Cockburn  could assure the hon. and gallant Member for Brighton (Captain Pechell), that it was not from any indisposition to reply to the hon. and gallant Commodore that he did not rise when that hon. and gallant Gentleman resumed his seat. He could assure the hon. and gallant Member, however, that he was in error if he supposed that the hon. Member for Dartmouth (Mr. Somes) had been thrust forward by the Government. He would take this opportunity of saying that he felt excessively obliged to the hon. Member for Dartmouth, and that this House ought to be equally obliged to him for what he had stated to-night. That hon. Gentleman was an independent Member of the House; he had nothing whatever to do with the Government. He possessed great knowledge relative to shipbuilding; and it was highly
 816 Rattler Vesuvius, Rattler 817 Queen
 Sir G. Cockburn  was glad that the hon. and gallant Officer had given him an opportunity of alluding to the subject. The hon. and gallant Officer had unfairly and
 825 Albion Queen.
 Sir G. Cockburn  agreed with the gallant Commodore that they were most valuable officers, but thought if they were turned into lieutenants, the service would ultimately lose by the change. The masters, it should be recollected, entered the Navy from the merchant service; they were required to have commanded a merchant vessel; but no previous service in the Navy was required of them. They, therefore, entered in quite a different character from other officers. If the master was made a lieutenant, he would expect to be advanced like others of the same grade, and his services might be lost when he became most experienced. He agreed that they could not give them too much encouragement; and at present the master in a line of battle ship received higher pay than a first lieutenant, while in other rates the master's pay was exactly the same as that officer's.
 Sir George Cockburn  said the marine glue was found to answer very well in the caulking of the  Black Eagle,
 Sir G. Cockburn  differed from the hon. and gallant Officer. The necessary qualifications of an able master could not be acquired in six years. He denied that their naval officers were so inefficient as had been represented. They had as good officers now as they had during the war. Nor was the ignorance of the Admiralty as to the qualifications of officers so complete; he had always found that officers gave their opinions of those who had served with them with sincerity and fairness. He hoped they would not take the character either of the Admiralty or the officers from the speeches made in that House.
 Sir G. Grey  thought, that if the Motion of his noble Friend was only intended to be operative during the present Session of Parliament, it ought not to be made a Standing Order of the House. There was, a great want of uniformity in the rates of charges upon these railways. He would support the proposition of his noble Friend, as he thought that several railway companies had departed from the rule laid down in respect to charges.
 Captain Pechell  should like to see the
 814 Alfred, 815
 Captain Pechell  said, it would be very satisfactory to know the number of American vessels employed on the Coast of Africa in pursuance of the Treaty with that country relative to the Slave Trade. He wished to ask whether a return of the number of vessels of that country so engaged would be laid before the House, as he conceived it could be easily furnished by the officers on board our own vessels cruising in that latitude for the suppression of the Slave Trade?
 Captain Pechell  referred to the importance of paying more attention in Her Majesty's dockyards than was at present shown to the articles of African oak, hemp, and marine glue. The latter material he considered to be possessed of most valuable qualities, and ought to be universally adopted for caulking the timbers of ships instead of pitch; the experiments which had been lately tried with it had been eminently successful.
 Sir J. Graham  was anxious that every consideration should be given to the proposition of the noble Lord, which was one of a most important character; and it was necessary that the House should know exactly the intention of the noble Lord. He therefore wished to ask, whether the provision were to be strictly prospective, or whether it were to have a retrospective effect? If it were to be prospective, he should entertain very little doubt on the matter; but, if it were intended to be retroactive, there might be considerable objection to it.
 Sir J. Graham  observed, that the night was very far spent, and it was not desirable to prolong this discussion. It was impossible for him, however, not to take a very lively interest in the character of the naval profession. It had been intimated that those who presided at the Admiralty, never heard the truth with respect to the performances of officers. Now, there was an officer recently returned from a foreign command as competent as any man living to form an opinion of the merits of those who served under him; he alluded to Sir W. Parker, for whom he entertained the greatest respect, and an esteem amounting to affection. On his return from China—admiring his brilliant naval exploits, he had naturally asked him what was his opinion of the merits of the officers of all ranks who served under him. His reply was, that the real trial was in creeping in shore on an unknown coast; not in deep sea, but in difficult operations near the shore; and the gallant officer had assured him, that under no circumstances had he ever known British officers more trustworthy or more talented than those employed in the late most difficult operations in the East.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he took it for granted the Board of Admiralty was in possession of the Reports of our own officers on this subject; and if so, they would be laid on the Table of the House.
 Sir R. Peel  was understood to say that the Papers connected with the Slave Trade would be laid on the Table of the House at as early a period as possible. Some would be ready by Monday next.
 Viscount Ebrington  said, he thought he should consider the interests of the House, by moving the adjournment of this debate until Monday next. He wanted to know upon what principle these Committees were expected to fix the tolls? What rules had they for their guidance in the matter? He was himself a party in taxing the tolls of a railway, without having the slightest idea whether he was right or wrong. He thought that that was a situation in which the Members should not be placed, and upon this subject he must protest against the doctrine of the Vice President of the Board of Trade.
 Viscount Howick  thought, that wherever a railway company came to ask for fresh powers, the House ought to attach to those powers such restrictions as they thought proper. There might be some hardship in imposing on companies, when they came for trifling powers, provisions which were not thought of when they were created, and he should have no objection to confine his provisions to companies which might now be created for the first time; but he thought its application to them was of the most essential importance. He felt inclined to support the
 804 d. s. l. s. s.
 Viscount Howick  entirely concurred in the proposed Motion, which he thought one of great public importance. He thought they ought not to pass any Railway Bill without reserving for themselves power to revise the rates of charge. It was notorious that hitherto the House had acted in too great a hurry on this subject. In consequence, however, of a Motion by the hon. Member for Inverness last Session, the Government proposed, as a Standing Order, that a clause should be introduced in all Railway Bills regulating the amount of charge; but the Committees having nothing to guide them in the execution of this duty, or any proper means of judging what the rates of charge should be, had acted in a manner that was vague and inconsistent. Some, as he had mentioned
 799 d. d. d.
 Lord Ingestre  said the important science of Naval Architecture had been hitherto much neglected in this country; but he was very glad to perceive that of late much more attention was paid to it than in past times. It was really wonderful that in this great maritime country such a subject should have been so long left in the back ground. There were many matters connected with the state of the Navy that he thought wanted revision. For instance, the office of Surveyor of the Navy had many more duties connected with it than ought to be entrusted to a single individual. It was quite unreasonable to require one man to attend to the condition of the great number of ships that were kept both in ordinary and on active service. He considered that the present Board of Admiralty had displayed a laudable desire that as far as possible the different systems of shipbuilding should have a fair trial; and he believed that through the exertions which were thus made, the best forms and plans would ultimately be arrived at. He wished that all the systems should be given a fair trial, but he had at the same time to complain that there was scarcely one of the ships recently built that it was not subsequently
 822
 Viscount Palmerston  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government a question having reference to the Slave Trade. That question was, whether there would be any objection to lay upon the Table of the House the representations made by the American Government as well as the English Government to those Powers who still carried on the Slave Trade, in execution of the engagements entered into by the Treaty of Washington? He wished to know whether there was any objection to furnish the House with the representations on this subject made by the British and American Governments, together or separately, in execution of the engagements of the Treaty he had referred to?
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  moved the Order of the Day for resuming the adjourned debate on the subject of his Motion relating to railways. "And be it further Enacted, That nothing herein contained shall be deemed or construed to exempt the Railway by this or the said recited Acts authorised to be made from the provisions of any general Act relating to such Bills, or of any general Act relating to Railways which may hereafter pass during the present or any future Session of Parliament." "Or, from any future revision and alteration, under the authority of Parliament, of the maximum rates of fares and charges authorised by this Act."
 Mr. Stuart Wortley , in reply, defended the principle of his Clause, and contended for the necessity of having it applied to all future Railway Bills. He begged the House to recollect, that he was not presuming to legislate on railways. All he asked was, that this Clause should be applied to each future Railway Bill, until the subject should be taken up by the Government, with the view of devising some general measure respecting them. The House would bear in mind that this was not a notion of his own. It had been recommended by the Select Committee on Railway Bills which had sat last Session.
 Lord J. Russell  admitted that the course to which the right hon. Gentleman referred was without a precedent; at the same time, he hoped that Her Majesty's Government would not postpone for a month or six weeks making some announcement on the subject. He differed altogether from the right hon. Gentleman in thinking that any announcement of the views of the Government would be attended with the ill effects which he seemed to apprehend. If any of those Bills could be brought to maturity and passed, well and good; but suppose any parties calculated that there was not time for certain of those Bills to go through the two Houses of Parliament, if parties opposed to them were to use their best endeavours to create delay, nothing could be easier for them than to defeat those Bills, for every one knew how easily counsel could create delay when they were so instructed; but the case would be wholly different if the rights of the promoters of those Bills were reserved till the ensuing Session. Though he agreed with the right hon. Baronet that the question was one which demanded much deliberation, yet it was to be hoped that the Government would make up their minds on the subject, and announce their determination with as little delay as circumstances permitted.
 Mr. E. Ellice , jun., who was but imperfectly heard in the gallery, begged to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, to the case of a man named Slyman, recently tried for murder, in Scotland, and acquitted on the ground of insanity. The man, although decidedly insane, still remained in the criminal prison, every lunatic asylum having refused to receive him. He would, with the permission of the House, read a passage from a letter which he had that day received on the subject. The extracts were as follows:—
 "We held to-day our first annual meeting of the County Prison Board, and Slyman's case was discussed. It is really a case in which humanity calls loudly for relief. The man is now dangerously insane, and yet remains in the criminal prison, where the necessity of keeping him from doing mischief precludes the possibility of giving him the air and exercise necessary in his disease. The surgeon has certified that he is literally dying by inches under the restraint, and yet there is no remedy;
 858
 Lord J. Russell : Sir, I rise to bring forward the Motion of which I have given notice, the subject of which I cannot but regard as of vast extent and of the highest possible importance. I confess that I should have despaired of being able to produce any useful effect from the course I am now taking, were it not that the question which
 859 860 861 s. d. s. s. d. s. d. s. d. s., s. d. s. d. s. d. d. s. d. 862 s. s. l., l. l. l.; 863 l. l.; l. l., l. l. 864 865 l. 866 "In 1809, when this system began, 428,000 tons of British shipping entered inwards from the Baltic. In 1814, the year after the 25 per cent. of additional duty had been imposed on Baltic timber, and when all the ports of that sea were open to our ships, only 242,000 tons of British shipping entered inwards, being little more than half of what it amounted to when the system began. And notwithstanding the vast increase, in the interval, of population and wealth in the countries round the Baltic, our trade with the different ports on that sea has not even now (1843) recovered from the blows inflicted on it in 1819 and 1813. It is seen from the statements previously laid before the reader, that in 1842 only 295,435 tons of British shipping left the Baltic for the United Kingdom." "Has there been a great alteration in the timber trade between Memel and this country of late years?—Since the war, a great alteration; before the war we used to have 950 to 1,000 English ships in a year, and since the war we have had from 200 to 300 only.—When you talk of 900 ships, do you mean 900 ships trading between Great Britain and Memel?—Yes." d. d. d. d. 867 "Sir T. Lethbridge thought that the proposed tax was a necessary protection due to the agricultural interest. At present the price of British wool was ruinously low, and the only way to raise that price was by the imposition of a duty.—Lord Milton: If we were to revert to the times of poverty and barbarism, then it might be well to impose a duty upon raw commodities; but if the advance of prosperity was our object, no course could be more destructive to it.—Sir M. W. Ridley thought that whatever might be their object, barbarity or prosperity, the existing system could have only one end—the total ruin of the agriculturists.—Sir C. Burrell, after some remarks, said, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would pause before he pushed too far his principles of free trade, which he could not but think were in some respects a curse to the country. In the House of Lords, May 5, the Duke of Richmond moved for a Committee, Lord Malmesbury said, the import of foreign wool was, for the first three months, 42,000,000; the second three months, 61,000,000; and for the last three months, 89,000,000. Now, such an advance in the import of foreign wool was truly alarming, particularly as there had been a proportionate decrease in the exports." 868 869 870 s. s. d. s. d. s. d. l. s. l. d. s. d. s., s. d. s. d., 871 s. 872 s. s. s. s. s. d., s. s. s., s. s., s. s. 873 874 s. d. s. d. s. s. s. s. s., s., s., "This distress has been lately further aggravated by the high price of corn, which presses severely on the labourer. As Kent may be called a corn country, I rather anticipated that the dearness of this article could not have materially injured the labourer, since it might have benefited the employer to such an extent as to raise his wages; and had the high price taken place soon after harvest it might; but the dearness chiefly arose after winter, and has been increasing all through the summer, whereas the farmers usually sell all their corn in autumn or winter, and the high price which comes subsequently is of no use to them whatever. I have rarely met with a farmer who has any corn to sell in the summer. I am informed at this season it is mostly in the hands of speculators and cornfactors, who alone profit from the high price, which is, consequently, as much complained of by the farmer as by any other class." 875 l. l. "But a great part of England has been consigned from time immemorial to the weeds and waters, and the leases or agreements under which it is held may be regarded simply as so many bolts and bars against the robbery and murder which used constantly, and are still at times, inflicted on the land by tenants without capital, and who, to use their own phrase, must nevertheless try to make a living out of it.'" "The ridicule, therefore, which some orators indulge in, on the subject of ancient leases, is merely a proof of their own deficient information; for where the generality of farmers are poor, ignorant, prejudiced, and unscrupulous, the landlord has often no choice but to take such as offer, and to secure his
 876 "That the present Corn Law tends to check improvements in agriculture, produces uncertainty in all farming speculations, and holds out to the owners and occupiers of land prospects of special advantage which it fails to secure." 877 "If 50,000 head of cattle are introduced, it will be a great benefit, because an equivalent
 878 s. d. s. d.; s., s. d.; s. s. d. s. d. s d. s. d. s. s. d. s. d., d. s. d., s. s. d., 879 s.; s. d., s.; s., s.; 880 s. James Graham: s., s.; s., s., s., s. s. s. s. d. s. 881 "That this House will take the said laws into consideration, with a view to such cautious and deliberate arrangements as may be most beneficial to all classes of Her Majesty's subjects." 882 "According to your wish, I have referred to my labour account. The amount paid is as under—average two years before the Union, 695 l.; l. l. l.; l.; l. l. "It is an undisputed fact that considerable savings have been effected by the improved administration of the Poor Laws, and that the farmer does not put the amount so saved into his pocket, but expends the whole in giving additional employ to the labourers in the neighbourhood. I have increased my own daily labour from 150 l. l. 883 884 Wood: 885 "That a systematic plan of colonization would partially relieve those districts of the Country where the deficiency of employment has been most injurious to the Labourers in Husbandry." 886 s. d. s. 887 "Those incessant witnesses against ignorance and neglect—the gaol returns of the kingdom—have again borne fearful testimony to the extent of moral darkness which still broods over large portions of the population. Of the criminals of Berkshire, one third have been again found unable to read; in Cambridgeshire and Staffordshire one half were in this condition; in Denbighshire, two-thirds; in Devon, out of seventy-one offenders under sixteen years of age, only four could read well; in Essex, one half were in total ignorance, while of 212 convicted prisoners, forty-eight had never been at school at all, forty had been there less than one month, forty-five less than
 888 "In Sussex, out of 877 prisoners, 141 did not know the Saviour's name, 498 just knew his name and no more, 179 had a confused acquaintance with his history, and only six per cent. of the whole number had any reasonable knowledge of the Christian faith. Some said they had occasionally been in a place of worship; but that when they did attend, all was darkness and confusion to their minds—so that they gave it up; and the downward steps of their career speedily succeeded — all were strangers to any pleasures but those of gross sensuality—all had been left a defenceless prey to the many temptations of a precarious life." 889 "We have many clever young men educated in our school, who are competent to teach. They go from us to take charge of schools, but we repeatedly find, because they are competent and capable of earning a better livelihood, they are tempted away to other more profitable pursuits—to more lucrative employments—and leave to men of inferior capacity the charge of their schools." 890 l. l. l. 891 "That the improvements made of late years in the education of the people, as well as its more general diffusion, have been seen with satisfaction by this House. "That this House will be ready to give its support to measures founded on liberal and comprehensive principles, which may be conducive to the further extension of religious and moral instruction." 892 893 "That the present state of political tranquillity, and the recent revival of trade, afford to this House a favourable opportunity to consider of such measures as may tend permanently to improve the condition of the labouring classes." in extenso 
 "1. That the present state of political tranquillity, and the recent revival of trade, afford to this House a favourable opportunity to consider of such measures as may tend permanently to improve the condition of the labouring classes. "2. That those Laws which impose Duties usually called protective, tend to impair the efficiency of labour, to restrict the free interchange of commodities, and to impose on the people unnecessary Taxation. "3. That the present Corn Law tends to check improvements in agriculture, produces uncertainty in all farming speculations, and holds out to the owners and occupiers of land prospects of special advantage which it fails to secure. "4. That this House will take the said laws into consideration, with a view to such cautious and deliberate arrangements as may be most beneficial to all classes of Her Majesty's subjects. "5. That the freedom of industry would be promoted by a careful revision of the Law of Parochial Settlement which now prevails in England and Wales. "6. That a systematic plan of Colonization would partially relieve those districts of the Country where the deficiency of employment has been most injurious to the Labourers in Husbandry. 894 "7. That the improvements made of late years in the education of the people, as well as its more general diffusion, have been seen with satisfaction by this House. "8. That this House will be ready to give its support to measures, founded on liberal and comprehensive principles, which may be conducive to the further extension of religious and moral instruction."
 Sir J. Tyrrell  said, that at the present advanced period of the Session, and in the press of public business, he did not think it would be discourteous to the noble Lord if his multitudinous Resolutions were pronounced to be an intrusion on the time and patience of the House. But he considered that parties in that House were in an extraordinary position, inasmuch as they had the spectacle of an irresponsible Opposition doing the work of the Government, and they had the First Minister of the Crown as it were deserted and abandoned by those who hitherto stood foremost to support him. The noble Lord, in his speech, alluded particularly to the restrictions on corn, feeling that that was
 926 s. 927 The Times
 Viscount Pollington  congratulated the House on the temperate tone in which the present debate had been carried on by hon. Members on both sides of the House. If the hon. Baronet who last addressed them had withdrawn his confidence from the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's present Government, it did not appear that he had transferred it to the noble Lord opposite, who had introduced the Resolutions then under the consideration of the House. With regard to the Corn Laws, he could only say, for his own part, that he did not regard their eventual repeal with all the alarm which was manifested by many hon. Members at his side of the House. And if the House was to undertake an alteration in the existing arrangements with respect to those laws, he for one would have much more confidence in any proposition with this object, coming from the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury, than he would have in one emanating from the noble Lord the Member for London. The noble Lord stated in his first Resolution—
 "That the present state of political tranquillity, and the recent revival of trade, afforded the House a favourable opportunity of considering of such measures as might tend permanently to improve the condition of the labouring classes." 928 929
 Mr. Villiers  said, he had been attending to the debate for some hours, and had been listening with some anxiety to the statements made on both sides of the House. He had done so in order to learn, if possible, whether, either from the proposition suggested on this side, or the opinions expressed on the other, he might not be spared from again making that Motion which he was in the habit of annually proposing to the House. The question of the Corn Laws, he thought, was distinctly raised by the Resolutions of the noble Lord; and he regarded it, as it appeared, in precisely the same light as himself. There were many things embraced in the Resolutions which the noble Lord had proposed; but he thought that anybody who had listened to his statement must have seen that the real question upon which the discussion must turn, was upon the policy of what is termed the Protective System, and upon the mode of dealing with a system which, according to his own account, had such a very important bearing upon the subject he had submitted to the House. The noble Lord brought before the House the condition of the people, and the mode by which that condition could be improved. The noble Lord, in doing this, referred to many things which doubtless had been, of late years, productive of great evil to the people; but he found that for these remedy was either too late, or that Parliament had no control. But he pointed out some that he found were within the power of the House, and to which he especially directed their attention. Amongst the foremost of these, the noble Lord had very properly placed the system by which the necessaries of life were artificially raised for the purpose of favouring a particular interest that preponderated in the House. He traced it in its connexion with the whole well being of the labouring classes, and he found it productive of the most enormous evils. The object of the noble Lord being, then, to direct attention to the wants of the people, and the policy and propriety of doing something to elevate their condition, the interest of the House was naturally drawn to what he regarded as the prime cause of evil, and which he properly alleged had been occasioned, and was
 930 931 932 933 934 935 s. s., s. 936 937 s.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that what he had said was, that it was generally the custom of the British and Foreign Society to state from the gaol returns what the state of education was in the different gaols, and he Only read a paragraph from their Report,
 922
 Mr. F. Scott  contended that for food to be permanently cheap to the lower classes, it must be the produce in abundance of their own soil, and that it was owing to the increase of that abundance and productiveness in the present time that the existing low prices were attributable. But it was of no use to the poor man that he should have his loaf cheaper in price by twopence, if they deprived him of the twopence with which
 938 939
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that if any arrangement on the subject were made too soon, it would rather cause delay than promote expedition.
 Mr. Hawes  objected to the Resolution, on the ground that it would affect all rail, way companies from the first which had passed, down to the present time. He did not think that the hon. Member who moved the Resolution intended to go so far. But if it were intended to apply to all Railway Acts, past as well as future, he could not support it; but if it were so modified as to affect only future Bills, then he would not object to it.
 Mr. Ross  rose to put a question to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland, respecting the conduct of Mr. O'Driscoll, of Skibbereen. In a case which came before the petty sessions at Skibbereen, and in which Mr. O'Driscoll was interested, the informations were not granted. It was the case of a woman whose cow had been distrained for a small amount of rent, and who, having rescued the cow, was prosecuted. The information was refused; and Mr. O'Driscoll was heard to exclaim, "By God, I do not understand these popularity-hunting magistrates." He wished to know whether the Lord Chancellor of Ireland had censured or intended to censure the conduct of Mr. O'Driscoll?
 Mr. Labouchere  wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman opposite relative to the present state of the railway business before that House. It was matter of notoriety that the amount of railway business now before the House was quite unprecedented, and the delay which had occurred in going through it was, he believed, unexampled in any former Session. During the course of this Session there had been presented to the House no fewer than 240 railway Bills, 119 of which had received the approbation of the Board of Trade. Not many of those Bills had yet passed their third reading in that House; and these facts showed with what an immense mass of railway legislation they had to struggle. He found that in 1820, and also in 1831, under circumstances of a far less aggravated description, the House passed Resolutions enabling Committees in the ensuing Session of Parliament to receive the minutes of evidence taken before former Committees, as well as proof of the Standing Orders having been complied with. This course was adopted in order to save parties the expense and trouble of going a second time over the same ground. But they had now to deal with a case of a much more aggravated nature than at those periods; and he would suggest whether it might not at present be necessary to go even further than the House had done formerly. Many most important Railway Bills, upon which parties had expended immense sums of money, in proving their case before Committees, might
 855
 Mr. Labouchere  said, he could not help thinking the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department had expected to hear from his noble Friend a very different speech from that which he delivered, and had prepared his answer accordingly. The speech of the right hon. Baronet was a defence of the Government from attacks which never had been made by his noble Friend. The main point of the right hon. Gentleman's speech was, that they were indebted to the present Government for many useful measures. He would be the last person to deny that in reference to trade, and the extension of education, many useful measures had been introduced by Her Majesty's present Government. But that was not the question. His noble Friend, at a time when there was an impression in the country, in his opinion an exaggerated impression, of the extent of the misery of the lower classes; and, above all, of the power which that House had, by direct legislation, of applying a remedy to this distress, took the wise and patriotic course of calling the attention of the House and the country to the subject, and putting on record his opinion of those legitimate means of relieving the misery of the working classes, and pointing out the proper remedy for it, instead of those wild and empirical schemes which were presented to the public in speeches of no ordinary talent. That was a wise and patriotic course to pursue, and in most of what had fallen from his noble Friend he entirely concurred; and also in much of what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet. In truth, the speech of the right hon. Baronet might have been delivered in support of the Resolutions of his noble Friend; and he might at least consider it as an indication of the opinions of the Government as to the course they meant to pursue in regard to those Resolutions. The right hon. Gentleman pointed out with satisfaction the comparative prosperity of the country at the present moment, and the flourishing condition of trade and manufactures. But to what did he trace the prosperity? To low prices. The present prosperous state of the country only proved to him, if indeed the subject
 923 924 925
 Mr. J. Parker  was understood to say, that much time was lost in Committees in going into preliminary inquiries as to probable traffic, and other matters connected with, the proposed line. He suggested that such inquiries might be made by the Board of Trade or some other body, by which a great deal of the time of hon. Members on Committees would be saved.
 Mr. Wilson Patten  was very doubtful whether the House would pass these Resolutions as they now stood. He did not deny the right of the House to make what regulations it might think fit with respect to railways; but they ought to be so framed as to meet other times, when money might not be in such plenty in the market as at present. He also doubted whether the House in all cases should interfere with the rate of charges by railways; but it ought not to pass such regulations as would operate as a discouragement to the investment of capital. He could not concur in the principle that this Resolution should be operative on every railway company. If a company which had already got its Act of Parliament
 852
 Mr. Mangles  wished to impress on the House that it ought not to legislate piecemeal on a question of such importance as that connected with railways. He fully concurred with the right hon. Gentleman who had suggested that the question should be taken up by Government, and with all its weight and influence. He had always heard, and fully concurred in the statement, that one great ingredient in the prosperity of the country was the complete freedom of individual enterprise from legislative restriction or interference. To that principle he should wish to see the Legislature adhere as a general rule; but the great public interests involved in railways ought to make that species of enterprise an exception, and the Government ought to take up the question as one great whole.
 Mr. Entwisle  agreed that there should be some general rules adopted as to all future railways.
 Mr. S. Crawford  rose to propose the Amendment of which he had given notice, and which was, he said, founded upon the petitions of the people. In 1842, petitions bearing 3,324,000 signatures were presented to that House, praying them to take into their consideration the propriety of extending to the working classes some share of political power by the extension of the suffrage. In 1843, numerous petitions to a similar effect were laid before the House; and, in the last year, 1844, petitions signed by more than 60,000 persons had been presented, praying that a more equal system of representation might be adopted. His hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe) and himself had, on several occasions, submitted Motions to the House, in accordance with the prayer of the petitioners; but they had been rejected by large majorities. The people complained that they were taxed by this House, in which they were unrepresented; and they asked that some means of protection might be afforded them by conceding them a share in the representation. He called upon the House to take this subject into their consideration, and he claimed on the part of the people full, free, and fair representation. The right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) had recently made rapid strides in the proposal of measures advantageous to the great body of the people; and though the right hon. Gentleman had generally divided against him when he brought this subject before the House, he did not despair that the time would arrive when the right hon. Baronet seeing, upon mature consideration, the justice of the measure, would be among the first to support him. The noble Lord, in commenting upon his fifth Resolution, made some remarks on the principle of the New Poor Law; and he (Mr. Crawford) could not pass the subject over without one or two observations. The noble Lord advocated the principle of that law, and denied that it was identified with a certain document or
 895 896 "That after the word 'opportunity' in that Resolution, these words be inserted, 'to give immediate attention to the claims so repeatedly urged in the Petitions of the People for an extension of the Parliamentary suffrage, as well as'—after which the rest of the words of the Resolution to follow; he should also move 'that Resolutions 4,5,6, and 8 be omitted."
 Mr. W. Williams  seconded the Amendment.
 Sir C. Burrell  said, that though he had not had the good fortune of listening to the speech of the noble Lord the Member for London, he understood from a Friend of his that the noble Lord made some observations with respect to the county of Sussex. He believed that the noble Lord misstated the facts, with respect to that county, no doubt not intentionally, but from misapprehension or misinformation, and he thought he was, therefore, bound to set the noble Lord right upon the facts; and feeling it to be his duty he would do so when required, indifferent as to the smiles of any one. The noble Lord singled out the county of Sussex as an ill-informed and ill-educated county, and in the gaols of which there were a great number of prisoners. But perhaps the noble Lord was not aware that the population of that county was a very changeable one, a great proportion of the population being derived from London, who had great facilities of going down to Brighton and the eastern coast, and amongst whom were many bad characters. One of the county Members informed him that not less than one-third of the prisoners in the eastern gaol came From Brighton. With regard to the education of the county, he could say for that part of it in which he spent his time, many schools were established, and most of the parish gentry assisted in educating the children of the common people. It was not his intention to enter into the subject of the noble Lord's Resolutions, having risen to state his reasons for thinking that the noble Lord unjustly aspersed the population of the county of Sussex. With respect to the rate of wages, he could only say, that in his own neighbourhood there were very few persons from it in the workhouse, and he never heard from the labourers of Sussex that they were not satisfied with the wages which they received. He was sure the noble Lord, having been misinformed on the subject, would be ready to withdraw his aspersion on the county of Sussex.
 Mr. Francis T. Baring  understood that the proposition of the hon. Member for the West Riding of York was not intended to apply to all railway companies whatever, but was merely applicable to all Railway Bills which might come before the House hereafter. He did admit that the House never intended to give that monopoly which some companies had since enjoyed; yet he did not think that the House ought to interfere with such companies, unless they came to it for additional powers or greater extension by means of branch railways; in either of which cases he thought the House would be fully justified in bringing them within the operation of any rules which it might make with respect to railways generally. That the House had a right to adopt some general measures which would secure to the public the greatest advantages from railways, nobody would deny; and he hoped that the Government would by the next Session have prepared some measure on the subject. It ought not to be a departmental measure, but one emanating from the Government itself, and to be introduced with all its authority and influence. Most certainly it would be little to the credit of the House or the Government to leave the regulations affecting railways as they now stood.
 Sir G. Clerk  replied, that the subject was one of great importance; it had not escaped the attention of Her Majesty's Government, and they certainly felt a very strong anxiety to grapple with the difficulties which presented themselves on the subject of railway legislation. But it was not unimportant for him to remind the House, that to allow Bills to be taken up in the next Session at that precise point in the proceedings where they might have been dropped in the present, would be a course wholly without a precedent. A step of that kind was taken in the year 1820, when the demise of the Crown rendered the close of the Session unavoidable. In 1831 and in 1841 the Sessions of Parliament were suddenly terminated, and in consequence of that, Bills were allowed to go on from Session to Session; but such events constituted no precedents applicable to the present case. He was quite aware that at the present moment there was an extraordinary mass of Railway Bills before Parliament, and with all the delay
 856
 Sir J. Graham : Sir, with the permission of the House I should have been anxious to have had the honour of addressing you immediately after the noble Lord the Member for London concluded his most able speech; but, Sir, as it is my intention to submit, as to the first Resolution, the Motion of the previous question, and as consistently with the rules of the House, if I had then done so, the hon. Member for Rochdale would not have been able to move his Amendment, I should have been wanting in courtesy to that hon. Member, if I had opposed such an obstacle to the making of his Motion. Sir, I must say that I came down to the House this evening in considerable perplexity as to what was really to be the subject of debate. Ordinarily, the Notice of a Motion enables us to form a conclusion as to the precise object of the Mover, and the subject he means to introduce to the House; but the Notice of the noble Lord tends to disguise his object. I acquit the noble Lord of any intention to place the House in that position; but the extreme extent of ground occupied by his Notice, so far from rendering it clear what is the subject he wishes us to discuss, forms a complete Parliamentary labyrinth, which
 897 "Mille viis habuisse dolum, quâ signa sequendi Falleret indeprensus et irremeabilis error." 898 J. Russell: s. s. s. J. Russell: s. s. s. s. 899 900 l.; l. l. l. l. l. 901 "That this House will take the said laws (the Corn Laws) into consideration, with a view to such cautious and deliberate arrangements as may be most beneficial to all classes of Her Majesty's subjects." s. s., s., s., s. 902 s. s. 903 s. d. s. s. 904 s., s. s. d. s. d. s. s. s. 905 Cheers. 906 "I regret to say that the depression which I stated in my last Report to be prevalent among the mill occupiers and their workpeople has in no degree abated; but on the contrary has, I fear, increased. Wherever I have been I have heard the same sad tale, with very few exceptions, that trade is in a state of extreme depression, and without any distinct prospect of improvement. Within the last four months several bankruptcies have taken place among the mill occupiers in my district. In four of these cases, the aggregate number of persons suddenly thrown out of employment amounted to 1720, and a sum of 850 l. "In my Report for the quarter ending June last I mentioned some evidence of the increased activity of the cotton trade begun
 907 "The cotton trade is in a state of great activity, new mills are building, others long unoccupied are taken by new tenants, and in some places it is difficult to find workers. There is also a much more prosperous trade in the woollen mills. There is great activity especially in the cotton factories. In some places large additions have been made both to buildings and machinery, several entirely new have been built, and others are in progress; and not only do we not hear of any person being out of employment, but in some places hands are scarce. One mill occupier, who employs a large number of handloom weavers, stated he was now paying them fully 30 per cent. more than twelve months ago, and this advance was general in most descriptions of work." "I am unable to give you information as to the state of things in 1840, but I send you some statistical accounts relating to Yorkshire, from which it appears, that while in 1838 there were 84,510 persons of all ages employed in factories, there are now employed in the same factories 114,838, being an increase of 38 per cent. of persons of all ages." "First, as regards cotton mills, a friend of mine has inspected the books of a good average mill in Burnley, from which the following results appear:— 
 
 "During the five weeks ended May 3, 1845, the mill hands worked thirty days, and 908 
 
 received £384 15 2½ 
 "During the five weeks ended April 30, 1842, the same number of hands worked nineteen days, and received. 246 13 7½ 
 "Difference caused by working short time £138 1 7 "A mason told me, that during the distress of 1841–42 he would gladly have accepted employment for 2 s. s. d. s. s. d.; s., "The wages of artisans and labourers have altered very little; any change there has been in the last five years has been in the way of increase, and workmen generally are now well employed. The shipping trade is good. Coal-owners complain that their concerns are not profitable; over production is the obvious cause." "The years 1840, 1, 2, and 3, were eminently years of bad trade. From 1500 to 2000 male adults, with their families, were
 909 "In the years from 1840 to 1844, we could get hundreds of workmen at any wages we had the conscience to offer; now we have scarcely an application for work." l.; l.; l.; l.; l.; l. Howick: 910 s. d. s. d. s. s. d. s. d. s. d. d. d. d. d. d. d.; d. d. d. d. d. d. s. s. d. s. s. d. d. d. d. 911 l., l. l., l., l., l. l. l. l. 912 l. l. l. "The commitments for trial in 1842 were greater than in any previous year recorded: they amounted to 31,309 persons, having in seven years increased 50 per cent. In 1843, the commitments decreased to 29,591 persons, or nearly 5½ per cent. In 1844, the commitments for trial further decreased to 26,542 persons, or 10¼ per cent., making a total decrease in the two years of 4,767 offenders, or above 15¼ per cent. This decrease has been very marked in the great manufacturing counties, including also several of the large agricultural counties. The great increase in 1843 of the most severe sentences—death and transportation—was a proof of the increased prevalence of atrocious crimes in that year, and it is gratifying to quote a great decrease in those sentences in 1844. In proof of the recent decrease of such offences, in 1843 ninety-seven persons were sentenced to death, and 4,813 to transportation. In 1844, fifty-seven persons only were sentenced to death—a decrease of 26 per cent., and 3,320 to transportation, a decrease of 23 per cent." 913 914 915 l. l. l. 916 917 l. l. l. "In pursuance of their desire to promote the efficiency and to increase the number of normal schools, they have, in addition to the vote of 10,000 l. l., l., l.; l., l.; l.; l.; l.; l. 918 "Since 1833, there has been expended of public money, for the erection of schools in Great Britain, 323,000 l. l. l. "70,000 l. l. "In 1839, 1,581 schools, and 205,000 children in progress of being educated. At the present moment there are, in connexion with the National Board in Ireland, 3,153 schools, and 395,000 children receiving education." 919 920 921
 Sir J. Graham  said, that the case was a peculiar and a melancholy one, but he hoped the House would pause before it interfered. The hon. Member for Cupar was in error, in stating that the prisoner in question had been acquitted of the charge of murder; he was not acquitted, but the jury found that he was irresponsible from insanity. There was no question that he had committed the murder, that he was a most dangerous lunatic, and a murderer, although not responsible for his crime. By the law of Scotland he could not be removed from Scotland, and no private asylum was willing to receive him; and, further, no public asylum could be compelled to take him in. He was a prisoner rightly imprisoned, there to remain during the pleasure of the Crown, and could not be released without the greatest danger to the public. He deeply regretted that the confinement of the lunatic was inconsistent with his health, but it was no more rigorous than was absolutely necessary. The man could not be removed; neither could be beliberated: and he was bound to say, that proper care being taken that no undue severity was practised, he did not think the authorities could have taken any course other than that which had been taken. He and the Lord Advocate had paid the utmost attention to the case, and that was the conclusion they had come to.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that as he understood, the Resolution and the addition to it, involved two distinct principles. The first was, that in the case of any existing railways which should come to the House for greater extension or additional powers, the Resolution would apply; and secondly, that all future Railway Bills would be dealt with so as to have their rates of charges and accommodation to the public generally subject to any regulations which
 853
 Sir T. Fremantle  said, he had seen in the public papers the statement to which the hon. Gentleman alluded; but he had no means of knowing how far the statement was correct or otherwise.
 Viscount Ebrington  considered the Motion then before the House as equivalent to adjourning the subject to a more convenient
 854
 Viscount Howick  thought it most important that the intentions of the Government should be speedily resolved upon,
 857
 Mr. Hope  said, he would give a succinct answer, which he hoped would satisfy the hon. Member. The present system was established in 1841. It proceeded upon two principles: one for the reformation
 942
 Lord J. Russell  said, that the first Order of the Day on the Paper was the Roman Catholic Relief Bill, while the Adjourned Debate upon the Resolutions he had submitted to the House stood last; he trusted, therefore, that hon. Members who had Bills likely to create opposition would give way in order that the Adjourned Debate might go on.
 Lord J. Russell  observed, that the right hon. Baronet was friendly to the general principle, and with respect to that part to which he had expressed objection as affecting certain enactments of the Relief Bill, he did not think that the existence of that clause ought to be conclusive against the second reading of the Bill. It certainly was a most important branch of the subject, and he was not himself prepared to vote for that part of the Bill without further consideration; but the Bill might, nevertheless, be read a second time.
 Mr. Stafford O'Brien , in moving the Second Reading of the Malt Drawback Bill, said, it was not from any want of respect to the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) opposite, that he (Mr. S. O'Brien) wished the second reading of this Bill to take precedence of the adjourned debate; but because he agreed with the hon. Member for Montrose and other hon. Members, that it was desirable to have this Bill disposed of in one way or another. He had put the question off for some time at the request of hon. Members, but as the difficulty of bringing forward and carrying a measure of this kind increased as the season advanced, he must now make his statement in favour of the Bill. If, however, he had been disposed to pay every possible attention to the request of the noble Lord, still he had not been able either to conceive in his own imagination, or to ascertain from diligent inquiries among hon. Members on both sides of the House, for what purpose the noble Lord had brought forward those Resolutions, or to what practicable object they tended. But whether his Bill were
 945
 Mr. Miles  understood from the speech of the hon. Member the Secretary for the Treasury, that although he opposed the second reading of the Bill, still the Government had not given up all idea that something of what the Bill contemplated might be effected. Under these circumstances he (Mr. Miles) would advise his hon. Friend not to press the second reading of the Bill on the present occasion. The farmers merely wished to be allowed to use, without fraud to the Revenue, their own productions, instead of foreign oilcake. However, as the Government had fairly stated that inquiries were still in progress, he thought it much better for his hon. Friend to postpone the measure to some future opportunity.
 Lord J. Russell  said: If the House comes to any division on the subject, I shall feel obliged to vote against this Bill. During the existence of the late Administration, the Duke of Buckingham wished very much for a Bill of this kind; and asked me to apply to the Excise authorities to ascertain whether a Bill of this kind could be carried into effect without occasioning fraud upon the Revenue. The Excise authorities made a report tome upon the subject; and that report confirmed me in the opinion that it was the duty of the Government to oppose any measure of this kind. Under these circumstances, I shall feel it my duty to oppose the present Bill. The hon. Member who moved this Bill said not only that he thought the measure to be one of great importance, but he thought it necessary to make an attack upon the measures I proposed the other night. I think that the hon. Member went out of his way to make that attack. The hon. Member said that the Resolutions which I proposed had no practical object; but the right hon. Gentleman who followed me said that one effect of those Resolutions, if carried, would be to cause the retirement of the Government. [Sir.[ J. Graham:
 Mr. S. O'Brien  said, that the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had alluded to him. Now what the noble Lord considered to be an attack was meant as an apology. He felt it due to the noble Lord's station in that House, as well as to the respect which he (Mr. O'Brien) entertained for the House, to say that if he thought the noble Lord's Resolutions had a practical tendency he would feel bound to give way at once, but that he thought that no practical inconvenience would arise from allowing his Bill to interfere. Now, he believed that the noble Lord would not have alluded to the few observations which had fallen from him if he did not feel that what he (Mr. S. O'Brien) said in the House, many thought the same outside of the House. The noble Lord had alluded to an Administration remaining in office under censure; but they had seen an Administration so extremely tenacious of office, that he was surprised that an opinion of that kind should have been expressed by the noble Lord. With respect to the state of the law, he wished it to be generally known that, in the present state of the law, a farmer might do every thing but kiln-dry his malt—he might steep and sprout it—do every thing but pass it through the kiln. He wished this to be understood, unless the contrary should be stated by some Member of the Government. He had been assisted by his hon. Friends the Members for Berkshire and Sussex in drawing up this Bill. He admitted the present great difficulty with respect to the details, but no difficulty with respect to the object in view. His hon.
 956
 Viscount Howich  said, there was one part of the speech of the hon. Baronet who had just sat down, which he wished the hon. Member had addressed to the House on a former debate, rather than on the present. He meant that part of it in which he endeavoured to demonstrate that, so far from protection being injurious to agriculture, it had actually been the cause of the improvements which he had stated had been so remarkable in that art within the last few years. Now he did think that the argument of the hon. Baronet on that point would have been better placed if it had appeared on the Motion of the hon. Member for Stockport (Mr. Cobden), when he moved for a Committee to inquire into the effect of protecting duties on the interests of tenant farmers and farm labourers; for the House could scarcely forget the speech with which the hon. Member had introduced that Motion—a speech which, in his opinion, had not only asserted, but had proved to demonstration, not indeed that protection had altogether stopped and arrested the natural progress of improvement in agriculture, but that it had exercised a most marked and pernicious influence in retarding and checking that improvement, and in rendering agriculture a singular instance in our national industry of little progress and slow advance during the long peace with which this country had been so happily blessed. He thought that it had been demonstrated on the occasion to which he alluded; and when a Committee was asked for to prove these allegations, the hon. Baronet opposite neither used his present argument, nor assisted them in obtaining the Committee by which, if their opinion were ill founded, its incorrectness might be demonstrated. All that the hon. Baronet had shown was, that improvements had taken place in agriculture. No doubt there had been improvements. Whoever thought of asserting that improvement was altogether arrested? But he would ask any hon.
 970 971 972 973 974 975 976 977 s. 978 979 980 981 982 983 984 985 986 bonâ fide 987
 Lord J. Russell : I think the House will feel that, though I occupied their attention for a considerable time in moving these Resolutions, I cannot leave the speech
 999 1000 1001 R. Peel 1002 1003
 Lord Worsley  hoped that his hon. Friend would not press the Bill, now that the opinion of Professor Playfair had been quoted against the use of malt, as a means of fattening cattle. However, he had been informed of an instance in which this mode of fattening cattle had been tried with the best success. He thought that his hon. Friend ought not to press the question to a division. His hon. Friend deserved credit for having brought the subject forward; and he hoped that his hon. Friend would consider the propriety, at some future period, of bringing forward a Motion for the total repeal of the malt tax.
 Lord J. Manners  said, that under those circumstances he thought the hon. and learned Gentleman ought to proceed with his Bill.
 Mr. Hawes  said, he had been discussing a point of common interest with some metropolitan Members, and it was only by accident he was shut out from the first division. He distinctly applied to have the door opened on the second division; but the officer declined to open it. If this was a mistake on the part of the doorkeeper, he hoped the Speaker would convey to him the opinion he had expressed, that the accident might not again occur.
 Mr. Bickham Escott  said, it appeared from the speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down, that the party with which the hon. Member usually voted was not yet ready to take the Government, and that that was the reason why he would not support the Resolutions. He agreed with the hon. Gentleman that his party was not ready; but he could not agree with him in thinking that the Resolutions, if carried, would be productive of no practical effects. He believed, that if these Resolutions were carried, practical consequences of great importance would follow, and that immediately. But, though he thus admitted that the Resolutions were far from being vague and indefinite in their operation, he must state that he was astonished that the noble Lord should have made such a Motion at all; and his astonishment arose from a close investigation of the noble Lord's Resolutions. The first statement contained in them was, that at the present moment there did pervade the breadth and length of the land political tranquillity and commercial prosperity. Why, were not these the very objects for which laws were framed, and
 959 960 961 962 963 964 d. d. l. 965
 Mr. Bickham Escott  said, that he told his hon. Friend that the bringing forward this question would not at all interfere with the adjourned debate, as he might raise on this Motion the same debate which had been raised on the Resolutions of the noble Lord. He should oppose the Bill, not out of regard to the Exchequer, for the interests of which he had no reason to care—but because it was one of a string of delusive measures propounded by certain Members, with a view, as they thought, of conciliating the farmers. He hoped it would be the last of the kind that would be introduced during this Session, as it was one which the farmers thoroughly and totally despised.
 Mr. Hindley  complained that he and several Members having been by accident shut out from the first division; he desired the doorkeeper to admit him the moment the numbers of that division were declared. The door was not opened; and they were shut out from the second division also. It was very desirable the Speaker should give his opinion on the point, whether the doors ought to be opened to Members on a second and different division?
 Mr. Speaker  said, although hon. Members might be shut out from a first division, they ought to be admitted to the second. It must have been by some misapprehension on the part of the officer of the House that the hon. Members had been excluded.
 Mr. Speaker  said, he would take care the mistake should not happen again.
 Mr. Cardwell  was exceedingly sorry that, on account of the absence of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, through indisposition, the duty devolved on him of replying to the hon. Member. This was a subject to which the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had paid great attention, and regarded as of great importance; and there was every desire on his part to remit the duty on the article of malt when used by the farmer for feeding cattle, if he could do so consistently with the safety of the Revenue. He admitted that the measure was practical, and assurred the hon. Member that it had received the fullest consideration from the Government. He had on this subject several documents before him, some of which he would read to the House. But this was not all; his right hon. Friend had instituted further inquiries, which were still
 948 "I am of opinion that, in the present state of knowledge, no applicable process is known by which malt can be rendered unfit for the purposes of distillation, and useful for feeding cattle." "A given weight of barley is more applicable for the production of muscles and fat than the same quantity of barley when converted into malt." "The advantage of malt as food consisted in its being easy of digestion. But there were
 949 "No evidence that cattle fed exclusively on malt, or that malt ever formed a large proportion of the food of cattle. Indeed, the high price of malt must have precluded it from being used for such a purpose." S. O'Brien; "But in Germany, where malt is subject to no restriction, it is not employed for the purpose, as I have been assured by Professor Liebig." 950 951 more suo;
 Mr. Curteis  was lately at a meeting of farmers, at which one of the greatest agriculturists in the county of Sussex stated that if the farmers were allowed to make malt and use it as they liked, it would make a difference of 50 per cent. to them in the fattening of their cattle. In that meeting it had also been strongly urged that if a repeal of the malt duties could not be obtained, it would be wise and expedient to get the proposed alteration made for the benefit of the farmers. Whenever anything was brought forward for the benefit of the farmers he should support it, notwithstanding the sneers of the noble Lord, or of the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Escott). As the Government were making inquiries and experiments on the subject, he agreed with the hon. Member for Somersetshire that it would be better to postpone the measure.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that the Report would be valueless unless some legislative enactment were to be built upon it. Would the Government guarantee that this should be done?
 Mr. Roebuck  wished to be informed whether the right hon. Baronet intended to submit to the House, or to any other tribunal, a re-distribution of the circuits?
 Mr. Roebuck  said, it appeared that the question referred to the Commission being how the business of the circuits, with the existing number of Judges, might be best distributed, they were not to consider whether the existing circuits might not be better arranged by the addition of two new Judges. If that question was altogether cut off from their consideration, then came the inquiry whether another Commission should be issued, the real question being whether the Judges were not necessary.
 Mr. Hume  thought the explanation of the hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Treasury quite satisfactory, and agreed with the noble Lord (Lord Howick) that nothing
 953
 Mr. Buck  said, he had come down to the House prepared to support this Bill. It was a measure about which his constituents
 955
 Mr. P. Howard  said, that when he moved the adjournment of the debate he was anxious to state his opinion, and which he believed was an opinion entertained by many thinking men in this country, that framing abstract Resolutions, likely to be attended with no result, was not the best way of dealing with great questions. It tended to unsettle men's minds, and produce unfounded expectations. He objected also to the number of those Resolutions. The proverb said, "In the multitude of counsellors there is wisdom;" but in the multitude of subjects he saw nothing but confusion. It was remarked by a journal which was a very acute observer of passing events, that unity was not necessary to political as to artistical effect. Formerly, when party measures were brought forward, it was customary to resolve that the House should go into a Committee of the whole House on the state of the nation. But though this might be vague as to the subject, yet it was definite in its object, and was tantamount to a withdrawal of confidence from an Administration. The noble Lord had admitted that if his Motion should be carried, it would be a censure on the present Government. He conceived that, at present, that was a result which would not be attended with any good effect to the country at large. He did not think that it would be an act of patriotism to overturn an Administration until they had a compact body of councillors ready to take their places. If the noble Lord had contented himself with laying his views before, without calling for an opinion from them, the House would have been happy to have been enlightened by his wisdom; but taking the opinions of the House would pledge every Member who supported him to every one of those Resolutions, a course which he could not admit. He thought that much had been done to benefit the country by the alterations in the Tariff which had been
 957 s., s., s., s.; 958
 Mr. Ewart  wished for some information as to the probation system substituted for the old system of assignment in the convict Colonies, which admitted of three gradations.
 Mr. Watson  said, he was most anxious to proceed with the Roman Catholic Relief Bill; but he was willing to take whatever course was most in accordance with the feeling of the House. The hon. and learned Gentleman moved the Second Reading of the Roman Catholic Relief Bill.
 Mr. Watson  wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet opposite, in consequence of a report which had been circulated in the newspapers. It had been stated, that a division of the Northern Circuit was about to be made, by taking one half of the business from the circuit, and putting it on the Norfolk Circuit. He wished to know if it was true that any such absurd regulation had been recommended by the Commission of Inquiry, or was about to be adopted? He wished to know whether it was specified in the Commission itself, or in the instructions given to the Commissioners, that they were not to take into consideration the question of appointing two additional Judges in Westminster Hall, and if they had been prevented from doing so? He wished to know also, whether it had been well considered, with respect to the administration of the law, that the existing state of things should be altered; for he believed that no single client, or any human being representing clients, had ever made any complaint against the existing system?
 Mr. Watson  thought the Bill ought certainly to proceed one stage. Four weeks ago he had postponed the measure. All he now proposed was that the second reading should be taken to-night, and that there should be no debate until the Report was received. It was exceedingly difficult for individual Members not connected with the Government to get forward a Bill. The principle of the measure had been to a great extent acknowledged during the last Session. No doubt when the subject came to be debated a wide range would be taken; and it might be a question whether a larger measure of relief should not be given, and it would be a question also whether this measure should or should not pass; but no human being could be injured by the second reading being taken to-night; and with the permission of the House he would fix this day fortnight for going into Committee, as he understood from the right hon. Gentleman that the Report of the Commissioners would be in the hands of Members in a few days.
 Sir E. Filmer  also complained of having been excluded in the same manner.
 Captain Pechell  had listened to the most able and useful speech of the hon. Member for Winchester with the greatest pleasure; but he was sorry that the noble Lord the Member for London could hot calculate on his vote. The object he had chiefly in view in addressing the House, was to corroborate the statements made by the noble Lord the other evening with reference to the state of education in Sussex. The hon. Member for Shoreham (Sir C. Burrell), had denied the accuracy of the noble Lord's exposures; but he was enabled now, on the best authority, to confirm the noble Lord's statements. He was informed by the chaplain of the Sussex gaol at Lewes, that out of 817 prisoners 470 had hardly any knowledge of religion. The hon. Member for Shore-ham had stated, that many of the Sussex criminals came from Brighton. Now, he held in his hand a Return, dated the 28th of February, 1843, of Persons committed to Prison for Offences in Workhouses in Poor Law Unions, and in places under Gilbert's and other Local Acts, during six years; from which he found that while in East Sussex, with a population of 144,268, the number committed to prison was 479, in Brighton, which was under a local Act, with a population of 50,000, the number committed to prison in six years was only 66. Comparing Brighton with Unions in East Sussex, he found that in the Battle Union, with a population of 12,034, there were 60 committals; in the Cuckfield Union, with a population of 17,132 there were 73 committals; and in the Hailsham Union, with a population of 12,433, there were 67 persons sent to gaol; whereas, in the several parishes in Sussex incorporated under Gilbert's Acts, forming two Unions, there was during the six years only one person committed to prison for offences in workhouses. He cordially concurred in the Motion of the noble Lord the Member for London; but he would gladly see the addition to it of the words moved by the hon. Member for Rochdale, his constituents being most anxious for an extension of the suffrage.
 Sir J. Graham  wished to say, in allusion to a remark of the hon. Member who had just spoken, that the Return of prices which he had quoted the other evening was a Return prepared by the Board of Trade at his request. It did not refer to the price of prime meat in the hands of retail butchers. It was prepared at his desire with reference to the price, in the first week of April in the present year, and in the corresponding week in the six antecedent years, beginning in 1839, and ending in 1845, of meat sold by the wholesale butchers to the labouring classes in the neighbourhood of Smithfield. He had every reason to believe in the accuracy of the statement.
 Sir J. Graham  was bound to say, that there was a part of the Bill to which he decidedly objected, while he was friendly to the general principle of the measure. It could not be imagined that he was disposed to inflict any penalties upon his Roman Catholic fellow citizens; but the Bill extended to the repeal of certain enactments which formed part of the relief measure and general arrangements of
 944
 Sir James Graham  said he could not ask the hon. and learned Member to postpone his Second Reading, upon the condition of promising to introduce a measure to be founded upon a Report not yet made.
 Sir J. Graham : I really am at a loss how to answer the hon. and learned Gentleman's last question. The hon. Gentleman said that no complaints had ever been made as to the existing state of things, and wished to know whether there was any intention of changing it. The term "existing system" is so general and vague, that it leaves me in doubt as to what part of it he means to direct his inquiries. With respect to the other two questions, I have no such difficulty. The first refers to the Report of the Commission to which the question as to the division of the circuits was referred. That Report has been drawn up and agreed upon, but it has not yet been presented. With respect to its subject-matter, I, not having official cognizance of it, must decline discussing the terms of a Report which, as far as I am concerned, is unknown. The third question has reference to a restriction
 941
 Sir J. Graham : That is a question which I cannot contemplate being subjected to the consideration of any Commission. I conceive it strictly within the province of the Executive Government.
 Sir James Graham  hoped that the hon. and learned Gentleman would not press the Second Reading of this Bill now. On a former occasion he (Sir J. Graham) had stated, that he had reason to believe the Criminal Law Commissioners were on the point of reporting upon the subject to a much greater extent than it was dealt with by the Bill of the hon. and learned Gentleman. The Report of the Commissioners would embrace the whole subject of the
 943
 Sir J. Graham : I have had no opportunity of seeing the Report of the Commissioners, therefore I can only say that I am not prepared to recommend an addition to the number of the existing Judges.
 Sir J. Hanmer  said, that after a discussion which had proceeded so languidly, he should confine the observations which he had to offer within a very small compass. Had the present been a Corn Law debate, he should have been ready to assign reasons which would have militated against the arguments brought forward by the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland. He had always thought that a moderate fixed duty would satisfy all the exigencies of the farmers, and likewise prove an excellent source of revenue. His opinion was, that whenever the import duty was taken off an article of foreign produce, the cost price of it was raised on the other side of the water; but he thought, at the same time, that with respect to corn, sufficient had been said to show that a duty for the purposes of revenue
 988 989
 Sir. J. Walsh  said, it appeared to him that the speech of the hon. Member for Winchester deserved all the commendation which it had received by the hon. and gallant Member for Brighton, and he doubted not but it would be echoed by the members of the Anti-Corn-Law League.
 967 968 969
 Sir R. Peel : In the course of the speech recently delivered, the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland adverted, with expressions of surprise and some indignanation, at the apparent indifference and apathy with which this debate has been treated; and the noble Lord noticed especially the absence of many Members of this House who have ever manifested a warm interest in the improvement of the condition of the lower classes in this country. If I thought, Sir, that apathy could be justly charged upon this House—if I thought, when the question was the improvement of the condition of the lower classes in this country, there was any real indifference to a matter of such extreme importance, not only to those classes themselves, but to every other class in the community—I should believe that this House Was giving a decisive proof that it was incompetent to discharge the high functions of a legislative body. I believe, Sir, that this apparent apathy, and that this absence of many hon. Members who feel a deep interest in the welfare of those classes, are attributable to the predominant feeling, that the noble Lord the Member for London has not brought forward this measure in a manner calculated to lead to any practical results. And with regard to the noble Lord's (Lord Howick) comments on the absence of my noble Friend the Member for the county of Dorset (Lord Ashley), I think that there is no Member of this House who has manifested a greater desire to carry out, by practical measures, what he has thought would be for the benefit of the labouring classes; but my noble Friend (Lord Ashley) has taken a different course from the noble Lord the Member for London.
 990 991 l. l.; l. l.; l.; l., l. l. 992 "That this House will be ready to give its support to measures, founded on liberal and comprehensive principles, which may be conducive to the further extension of religious and moral instruction." 993 "Those laws which impose Duties usually called protective tend to impair the efficiency of labour, to restrict the free interchange of commodities, and to impose on the people unnecessary Taxation." "Holds out to the owners and occupiers of land prospects of special advantages which it fails to secure;" 994 s. s. s., s. s. s.; s. "That the present state of political tranquillity, and the recent revival of trade, afford to this House a favourable opportunity to consider of such measures as may tend permanently to improve the condition of the labouring classes." 995 996 997 "York, March 1. "Uninterrupted tranquillity has prevailed in the district under my command during the past month. Trade and manufactures continue to flourish. So completely has all disposition to political agitation of any description ceased, that an attempt made the other day at Hull to muster a Chartist meeting proved an entire failure." "York, May "The same uniform and universal tranquillity and prosperity continue to prevail in the district under my command, as I reported last month; and the only remarkable circumstance worth mentioning is the total absence of all political agitation amongst the mass of the people, and the total indifference that seems to exist amongst the same class on the particular subject which is now so generally agitated by a portion of the regular and Dissenting clergy, viz., the Maynooth grant. At all events, it seems quite out of the question that any feeling could be raised in the mass of the population on this occasion so as to disturb the peace of the country for one moment." 998
 Sir R. Peel  said: I trust that my hon. Friend the Member for Northamptonshire will not adopt the course suggested to him by the hon. Member for Sussex, to postpone this Bill to a future period. I think that such a course would be calculated to raise expectations which it would not be right to excite without any prospect of their being realized. I understood my hon. Friend to say that he wished to press the Motion on the ground that it was desirable to come to some decision on this question; for that at present a great derangement existed in the trade in malt, produced by the expectation that some modification would be made in the existing law; and my hon. Friend said that it would be better that we should have a decision for or against the second reading, in order that all doubts on the subject of this law, and with respect to the trade in malt, should be at once put an end to. On this account, I hope that my hon. Friend will consent either to withdraw his Bill, or that he will not be satisfied to have it met with a negative, because any expectation that the Government might alter their views on this subject must prove utterly fallacious. My hon. Friend says that the returns from Scotland are not so satisfactory as they might be; but I think that the statement of facts and experiments read by my hon. Friend (Mr. Cardwell) are conclusive on the subject. Without undervaluing the opinions of those to whom the hon Member for Somerset referred, I must say that there could not, in a case of this kind, be any higher authority than Dr. Playfair—who has turned his particular attention to the best mode of fattening animals, independent of his high authority on chemical subjects. He not only doubts the advantage of using malt as a means of fattening cattle, but even if it were, there would be the greatest difficulty in preventing frauds on the Revenue. Upon the whole, I do not think it probable that any returns from Scotland will be likely to enable the Government to come to a different conclusion on this subject. I assure my hon. Friend that, from respect
 954
 Viscount Clements  said, that in reading the Resolutions under the consideration of the House, the first thing that struck him was the total absence from them of anything regarding his native country. In reading those Resolutions, he was almost led to imagine that the Repeal of the Union had already been carried. The first of the Resolutions alleged that the country was in a state of tranquillity; but if tranquillity prevailed in that part of the country from which he had come, then had he been of late in a dream. He had heard the other day of a meeting on Tara Hill; and he had come from a county which was in a state of total anarchy, and in which the ribbon system was the governing force. He admitted that the right hon. Baronet had proposed a measure which was calculated to produce hereafter the most beneficial results in Ireland; but
 1004
 Viscount Howick  entirely concurred in the wisdom of the advice given by the hon. Member for Somersetshire. The sooner the measure was withdrawn the better; and the more completely the idea of ever bringing it forward again was given
 952
 Mr. Wynn  moved that the Select Committee of Privilege appointed to consider the case of Howard  v.
 The Solicitor General  appeared at the Bar with their first Report, which was read as follows:—
 "The Select Committee appointed to inquire into the proceedings of the Action of Howard  v. "In the course of the consideration which your Committee has given to the subject referred to them, they have been apprised of proceedings in the progress of the Action, of which it is proper that the House should be informed without delay. The Plaintiff on Tuesday last executed his Writ of Inquiry, and his damages were assessed by the Jury at 200 l.; "Your Committee will at an early period present a more detailed Report than they are at present prepared to make; but they feel it to be their duty to submit their opinion, that it is advisable that a Writ of Error should be brought on the Judgment of the Court of Queen's Bench; and as the levying of the Plaintiff's execution will in no respect prejudice the proceeding in the Writ of Error, your Committee do not deem it expedient to advise the House to interpose to prevent the levy."
 The Solicitor General : I regret that the hon. Gentleman should have used such strong expressions on an occasion which does not call for them. The reason why the Committee has not made a full and final Report, is, because they are anxious to put the House in possession of the grounds which have guided their decision. If the hon. Gentleman wishes to come to a Resolution before the House has full information before it, it is open to him to propose that course. But, the House not being committed in any way, I think it would be premature to come to a vote before we have all the facts before us.
 The Solicitor General : It is the opinion of the Committee that bail in error should not be given. If the House is desirous of considering the question at once, I shall move that the Report be printed, and taken into consideration to-morrow.
 The Solicitor General : The record is not made up until final judgment. We have, however, what will constitute the record—the pleadings; and these and the warrant will be ready to-morrow.
 Mr. H. Berkeley  rose, pursuant to notice, to bring before the House the Insolvency Act, or Small Debts Bill of last Session, in order to point out the evils of its operation, whether prospective or retrospective, and to ask the House to grant a Committee to inquire into those evils with a view to their remedy. He believed that an inquiry would convince the most sceptical that the Act in question had a tendency to demoralize the people, while it was fraught with the most ruinous consequences to
 1012 1013 l. l. l. 1014 l., l. l. l. l. 1. s. s. 1015 "Dost thou think, because thou art virtuous, there shall be no more cakes and ale? Ay, marry shall there; and ginger shall be hot i'the mouth too." l. 1016 "It had made debt a national habit; it had made credit the ruling power, not the exceptional auxiliary, of all transactions; it had introduced a low, indirect, haphazard, and dishonest spirit in the conduct of both public and private life—a spirit dazzling, and yet dastardly—reckless of consequences, and yet shrinking from responsibility; and, in the end, it had so overstimulated the energies of the population to maintain the material engagements of the State, and of society at large, that the moral condition of the people had been entirely lost sight of." 1017 1., l.; l. l., l. l., l. 1018 l. l. s., l. s. d. l. s. d. 1019 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the effects produced on Debtors and Creditors, by the operation of the Insolvency Act of last Session."
 The Solicitor General  expressed a hope that the hon. Gentleman would withdraw his Motion, in order that the House might have the opportunity of first seeing the Bill which was to come before it shortly. It was, perhaps, important that the House should know the course of legislation on this subject. In consequence of the Report of the Inspectors of Prisons, the attention of the Government was drawn to the number of persons imprisoned under warrants from the courts for the recovery of small debt throughout the country.
 1022 l.
 Mr. H. Berkeley  said, that after what had been stated by the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham), he could not do otherwise than withdraw his Motion.
 Lord Ashley  took that opportunity of stating that he wished to trespass on the House for a few moments only, on a matter personal to himself. He had understood that his absence from last night's debate had been very severely commented upon. He had last night taken the chair at a meeting of Sunday School Teachers in a remote district of Lambeth, for which he had been engaged for several months, and where he had been detained for several hours; and he did not think that, at that late period of the evening, it was necessary to attend that House to take part in a division upon a Motion which, whether it were successful or not, could lead to no practical result.
 Mr. Hawes  understood that there had been a Committee on this subject in the House of Lords, and that a Bill was now pending in that House to provide a remedy for the evil complained of. He, therefore, was of opinion that the appointment of a Committee by this House on the same subject would retard rather than accelerate the object which the hon. Member for Bristol had in view. Under these circumstances, he hoped his hon. Friend would not press his Motion. The mercantile interests were anxious that the question should be as soon as possible brought under the consideration of the House. The public, perhaps, were not aware that the local courts already possessed very stringent powers, which, in his opinion, it would be neither desirable nor safe to increase. The subject was one which had been often discussed, but he hoped the time was coming when the general opinion would be in favour of establishing a general and an efficient system of local courts for the recovery of small debts.
 Mr. B. Escott  rose to put to the hon. Member for Beverley the question of which he had given notice. He wished to ask him whether the Court of Directors of the East India Company had considered the case of Lieutenant Hollis, late of the East India Company's service, who had been tried by a court martial and dismissed?—whether he was enabled to give any opinion as to the legality or illegality of the court martial by which he had been dismissed? Secondly, supposing
 1010
 Mr. E. B. Roche  said, that if the Government admitted the existence of the evil, they ought to provide a remedy. Why not take a substitute for this impost some of the overgrown revenues of the Irish Church? The object was not to get the matter taken into consideration, but to get rid of the abuse, and a pledge should be given by the Government that they would effectually deal with the subject.
 Mr. Sergeant
 1023  in bringing forward the Motion of Which he had given notice, in reference to the repeal of so much of the 17th and 18th of Car. II., c. 7, as related to the payment of Ministers in corporate towns in Ireland, wished to state the origin of an impost which pressed with so much severity on both the higher and lower orders in Ireland. An Act was passed in the reign of Charles II., having for its object the providing of sustenance for certain Protestant clergymen introduced into eight towns in Ireland, in which at that time a number of Protestant colonists resided. Indeed, the inhabitants of those towns were then almost, if not altogether, Protestants; and for the maintenance of the Protestant religion among them, it was considered necessary that this levy should be made. The result of the late census had shown that the majority of the population of those towns were now Roman Catholics; and it was for the purpose of asking the Government to remove from them an impost which was a source of heartburning and disquiet, that he (Mr. Murphy) brought forward this question. From 1830 to 1835, important modifications had taken place with regard to the application of the Church revenue, which changes involved the principle of the present question. At that time the Ecclesiastical Commissioners admitted in their Report that so peculiarly obnoxious was the tax to the feelings of the Roman Catholics, and a great proportion of the Protestants of Ireland, that its advantages to the Established Church were more than counterbalanced by the odium attached to its collection. If the vestry cess was considered odious as a tax on conscience, it must be admitted that the immediate payment of Protestant Ministers by those of a different religion would be considered much more so. The house valuation, which regulated the amount of this impost, was limited to 60 l.; 1024 l. "That this House will resolve itself into a Committee to take into consideration the Act 17th and 18th Car. II., c. 7, intituled, 'An Act for provision of Ministers in Cities and Corporate Towns, and making the Church of St. Andrew's in the suburbs of the city of Dublin, presentative for ever,' with a view to the Repeal of so much thereof as relates to the payment of Ministers in Corporate Towns in Ireland."
 Sir H. W. Barron , in seconding the Motion, said, it was a most remarkable fact, that nearly all the large towns in Ireland, inhabited by Protestants, were exempted from this tax. That circumstance made the tax more odious in Roman Catholic cities and towns. He hoped the Government would give their early attention to it with a view to its removal.
 Mr. Kemble  seconded the Motion. His object was to have an inquiry granted, in order to consider of devising securities against fraud more effectual than were provided by the Act of last Session.
 Mr. Parker , as steward of a manor in which one of those courts was located, had seen so much of imprisonment for small debts, that he trusted nothing would induce Ministers to consent to the revival of a system under which the poor had been huddled together in prisons of the vilest kind, without control or superintendence. The measure of last Session might tend in some degree to dislocate the present system
 1021
 Mr. Hume : I wish to ask, is there any I means of stopping the levy? That is what I think disgraceful.
 Mr. Hume  said: If this is the way in which the privileges of the House are to be vindicated, it does appear to me that we want some better defenders than those we have at present. The Report of the hon. and learned Gentleman seems to me to throw discredit on this House; and, indeed, the result to which the Committee have been obliged to descend, might have been anticipated from our yielding in the first instance. The time is now come when we are to decide whether we have really any privileges or not. Not an hour, in my opinion, should be lost in bringing the question to an issue. As a Member of this
 1009
 Mr. Spooner  thought that after what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State and the Solicitor General, the hon. Member for Bristol should withdraw his Motion. His own wish was to see the fullest security given to the creditor with the least inconvenience to the debtor.
 Mr. T. Duncombe : On a former day, the hon. and learned Gentleman moved for certain documents in this case. We have got the judgment, but not the record or warrant.
 Mr. Watson : Execution can be sued out, unless you mean to give bail in error.
 Mr. M. Philips  was anxious that this Committee should be granted, because he thought that last year their legislation had been hurried, and that portion of the Committee which was chiefly interested in the question had not had sufficient time to consider it. He would not trust exclusively to the inquiries of the Upper House, and thought a Committee best calculated to meet the case.
 Sir. J. Graham  had listened with great attention to the speech of the hon. Gentleman who introduced the Motion, and he was obliged to say that, after all the attention he could bestow on it, he felt at a loss, even at the close of the speech, to ascertain any definite object which the hon. Gentleman had in view. He imagined that that object was to remedy certain defects in the Act of last Session, which gave rise to frauds on the part of debtors, and placed obstacles in the way of honest tradesmen recovering their debts. He was not of opinion that the course which the hon. Gentleman had taken was the one best calculated for the attainment of his object; direct legislation he thought was the preferable course. The hon. Gentleman had referred to the law officers of the Crown; but he forgot to mention the first law officer, namely, the Lord Chancellor of England, and he might state that there was at this moment a Bill pending in the other House of Parliament, to which that noble and learned Lord had given the most anxious and earnest attention, for the purpose of rectifying the defects of the Act of last Session. The hon. Gentleman who had made the present Motion, said, in the most emphatic manner, that it was not his intention to repeal the Act of last Session, and revive imprisonment for debt. He rejoiced to hear that declaration: for, with all their professions of sympathy for the working classes, feeling for their miseries, and desire to promote their welfare, he could not conceive any course more inconsistent with these professions, than the revival of imprisonment for small debts. He was convinced that the apprehensions of evil from the change in the law were almost devoid of foundation; in fact, no complaints had been made on the part of the great body of the community; they arose entirely from the retail dealers—a class well worthy of respectful attention, but comparatively wealthy, and possessed of considerable power.
 1020 l.
 Mr. Hogg  thought he was scarcely called upon to answer these questions. If it were the pleasure of the House that he should go into the case of Lieutenant Hollis, he would do so; and he would state the charge against that gentleman, not in his own words, but in the words of the finding of the court, with the observations of the Commander-in-Chief thereon. He would state this in the words of the finding, without adding a word of observation from himself, if the House thought it expedient that he should do so; but he gathered that the House was of opinion that it would be better that he should abstain. With regard to the legality of these proceedings, he was surprised that the hon. Gentleman should ask whether or not the Court of Directors had considered the legality of the court martial. They had no right to take upon themselves to judge of its legality. The whole authority of courts martial was, by the warrant of the Crown, in the Commander-in-Chief. He was the sole authority on the subject, and from his decision there was no appeal. The Court of Directors had no power to alter, correct, or affirm the decision of any court martial. The Mutiny Act described the course of proceeding if there was reason to complain. The Courts of Westminster were open to those who in this country felt themselves aggrieved; so were the courts in India, and the courts in the various Presidencies. The Court of Directors had no power to pass any opinion on the finding of a court martial. They had the power, by the 51st of George III., to restore the officer who had been suspended or dismissed by the sentence of a court martial; but the power of the Statute did not come into operation till the sentence of the court martial had been promulgated. The Court of Directors had considered the case of Lieutenant Hollis, and believed it one of some hardship. If he had voluntarily retired from the service, he would have been entitled to a pension of 73 l. 1011 l. l.
 Sir T. Fremantle  complimented the
 1025 l. l. 1026
 Sir T. Wilde : All that is material in the record we can have—the declaration, pleas, demurrer, and the opinions of the Judges. The remainder is merely formal matter.
 Mr. Hope : I beg to direct the notice of the House to a matter which, being of a somewhat personal nature, they will, I hope, excuse my directing their attention to it. The House may remember, that on the 2nd of May, I referred to the circumstances of the postponement of a Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard. I did so in this way—I said that the course was taken by him not at the request of the Government; that it was his own act, and the result of no compromise on the part of the noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Department with the New Zealand Company. A report has been officially promulgated by the New Zealand Company, by which it appears that some parties have drawn a different inference. I will stale exactly what took place. The hon. and learned Gentleman postponed his Motion in the first instance, in consequence, as he stated, of having had some communication with Lord Stanley. I made no observation at the time, not being aware what had passed between them; but, in the course of the next day, I asked my noble Friend whether that postponement took place in consequence of any request on his part, or in consequence of any compromise being entered into with the New Zealand Company. My noble Friend assured me it was the hon. and learned Gentleman's own act, and that no compromise had taken place. In order that there should be no mistake in the matter, I sent the following note to the
 1089
 Mr. Collett  wished merely to state to the House that the man having been proceeded against in the name and at the suit of Prince Albert, he (Mr. Collett), entertaining strong opinions upon the subject of the game laws, wishing to see those laws relaxed, deeply commiserating the condition of the poor man who had suffered this injurious imprisonment; he, on the 24th instant, wrote the following letter to Dean:—
 "I observe by  The Times l. s. The Times 1096
 Lord J. Russell : Before the hon. and learned Solicitor General proceeds to move the Order of the Day with respect to the question of Privilege, I think it proper that I should make some inquiry of him as to the course he means to pursue, and state what has occurred to me, and to some friends of mine, Members of the Committee. The hon. and learned Gentleman, in the name of the Committee, presented a Report, which consists, I may say, of two parts; the one with regard to the levy of the execution which will take place on Monday next, as to which the Committee thought it necessary that the House should interfere without delay; the other part stating that the Committee have come to a resolution that it is advisable to proceed by a writ of error in the superior court. It does not appear to me that the first part of the Report presented to the House has any other object than to enable the House, if they so think fit, to interpose to prevent the levy of the execution on Monday next. With respect to the second part, namely, the advice to proceed by a writ of error, the Committee state that they wish to make a more detailed Report to the House. While I think the Solicitor General was justified, being called upon, in proposing that the Report should be taken into consideration to-day, I must express a hope that he will not proceed to move any Resolution as to the writ of error. I think that this is due to the Committee, who after spending a good deal of time in deli-
 1098
 The Solicitor General : I entirely concur in the view that it is expedient we should postpone the consideration of this question until we have before us a full and complete Report from the Committee to which we have confided the task of considering the present question, and recommending the course which ought to be adopted. The hon. Member for Montrose has asked why there has not been a complete Report presented to the House. He says, we have had ample time—a week — to prepare our Report. Certainly, if we had the advantage of the industry and diligence of the hon. Member for Montrose we might, by possibility, have been able to frame that Report; but we had it not. He is not at all aware of the infinite pains and research which are requisite to be employed before we can present such a Report to the House as would be satisfactory either to the House or to the Members of the Committee. And this I must say, that in the midst of numerous other important claims on their time, the Members of the Committee have been most faithful and diligent in performing the duty cast upon them by the House,
 1104
 The Solicitor General  moved, that the further consideration of the Report be postponed until Monday week, June 9th.
 Lord J. Russell : In 1837 the House was advised by the then Attorney General (Sir J. Campbell) to plead to the action brought against Messrs. Hansard. The House did plead, and then came the question, whether the damages should be paid. I advised their payment then, on the ground that we had not interfered in the earlier stages of the proceeding. In a subsequent case the House did not plead. There the question also arose whether the damages should be levied; and the House proceeded against the Sheriffs. With respect to the present action, the House was advised that it should plead to it, and the House agreed to the Motion in 1843—a Motion made by me that Mr. Howard be summoned to the Bar being rejected. And now what is it that the hon. Member for Montrose proposes? It is this, that having omitted all preceding steps, you should now interfere to prevent the levy of the damages. If the House is prepared to take that course, they should have interposed when the parties first instituted the suit. The hon. and learned Solicitor-General had referred to the Resolution of the House which declared the institution of any suit in these cases to be a breach of privilege; and the Resolution further went on to say that any parties who should presume to be concerned in any such suit, should be amenable to the displeasure of the House, and visited with punishment. An hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. F. Kelly), who was himself concerned in the prosecution of the present suit, has this evening expressed his opinion to the House. Now,
 1125
 Mr. Bernal  lamented that the discussion had this night proceeded to such a length; and that the right hon. Baronet had alluded to certain circumstances to which he did not expect him to advert. At the same time, he concurred in opinion with the right hon. Baronet; and while he did not deny the right of the House to interfere, as the hon. Member for Montrose had suggested, he doubted whether the proposal would be supported by a majority. He agreed that subordinate officers ought not to be made responsible to the House, and that, if necessary, proceedings should be taken against the Judges themselves for the vindication of privilege. He maintained that the judgment of the Court of Queen's Bench was a mere thing of shreds and patches; that two of the Judges had contradicted themselves repeatedly; and that the result—to use the mildest term—was erroneous. He entreated the hon. Member for Montrose not to place the House in a difficult and disadvantageous position; and regretted that he had been misled by the hon.
 1130
 Mr. Collett  said, that at the end of the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Solicitor General, that hon. Gentleman stated, that unless the House interfered immediately, the Sergeant-at-Arms would be put to considerable inconvenience on Monday next. Now, he should be glad to be informed in what way the hon. Gentleman wished the House to interpose to protect the Sergeant-at-Arms.
 Lord J. Russell  said, he wished to ask whether the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) proposed to introduce any material alterations into this Bill in Committee, and whether the memorial presented by the Roman Catholic bishops in Ireland had received the consideration of the Government; whether, in consequence of that memorial, they contemplated any alterations or whether that memorial was under the consideration of Government, with a view to the adoption of any of the recommendations it contained?
 Mr. Acland  could not understand what the Government considered to be the principle of this Bill.
 Lord Clive  hoped the Government would not press the second reading of the Bill at this hour. It was, however, for the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury to decide that question. He had no wish to delay the progress of the Bill; but he thought it was questionable whether, if other business were taken to-night, time would not really be saved in the end.
 Lord J. Manners  said: I assure the House that I never rose with more reluctance than on the present occasion to move the rejection of this Bill. So great was my reluctance to adopt such a course, that till this morning I hesitated to take any step on the subject, in the hope that before this measure arrived at its present stage Her Majesty's Ministers would have made some declaration which might enable me, and other hon. Gentlemen, to give as hearty support to this measure as we gave to the proposal for an increased and permanent grant to Maynooth. But in the absence of any declaration on the part of the Government, and after the intimation of the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) that no such alteration as we desire can be admitted, I am induced, however reluctantly, at whatever pain to myself, and with whatever weariness to the House, to meet this measure with a sincere, though reluctant, opposition. I cannot call a system such as this a measure of education for Ireland. In my view, education is something very different from the instruction provided by the enactments of this Bill. I never could consent to call a Bill such as this, which contains such a proviso as that I will now read to the House, a measure for promoting learning in any country:—
 "Provided always, that no student shall be compelled by any rule of the College to attend any theological lecture or other religious instruction, and that no religious test shall be administered to any person in order to entitle him to be admitted a student of any such College, or to hold any office therein, or to partake of any advantage or privilege thereof." 1138 Member: 1139 1140 "I want that education should be free. To obtain for the Protestant of the Establishment education for his children such as shall have the father's sanction and the mother's blessing. In like manner would I concede to the Presbyterians a distinct and separate education for Presbyterian youth, and join them in calling upon the Government for a guarantee that the children should be educated in the religious profession of their fathers. That being my principle, here I am ready to work it out—to work for the Protestant, the Presbyterian, and all classes of dissenters. I contend that every persuasion should have a distinct and separate system of religious instruction. Religious education must be in its nature exclusive. It is exclusive to all who hold a contrary belief in religion. There can be no mixed education in religion—whatever 'mixed' education means. The mixed education under this Bill does not mean much,
 1141
 Lord J. Manners  said, this Bill involved what he regarded as a new principle. Considering the late period of the evening at which they had now arrived, it was impossible that this debate could be brought to a conclusion to-night, and he earnestly hoped the right hon. Baronet would have the goodness to postpone the Bill until next week.
 Lord J. Manners : For the very reason assigned by the hon. and learned Member for Worcester, I hope the hon. Member for Montrose will persevere in pressing his Resolution to a division.
 Mr. Disraeli : Sir, the hon. and learned Member for Bath has said, that hon. Members on this side of the House are opposed to the alleged privileges of this House, because its Members are now the Representatives of the people of this country; and then, with extreme inconsistency, he asks where would public liberty have been if Hampden had not risen in this House to vindicate its privileges? Why, Sir, the House of Commons of those days was as aristocratic an assembly as any which existed before its late reform. The House of Commons of the time of Hampden was not then elected by a constituency greater or more numerous than it was before the more recent reform of this House; and I cannot understand how the hon. Gentleman can impute to hon. Gentlemen on these benches that they would have wrongly vindicated the privileges of the House of Commons when it was aristocratic and before the recent changes, and then appeal to the name of Hampden as elucidating the great importance of vindicating the privileges of Parliament. Sir, there may have been times when judges were corrupt, and the hon. and learned Member is the last man to deny that there have been times when Parliaments were corrupt; there may have been times when judges were tyrannical, but the hon. and learned Member will scarcely dissent from the assertion that there have been Parliaments which have been tyrannical also. The hon. Gentleman says, that the privileges of this House ought to be defended, because they carry with them the sympathy and the affections of the people of this country; but let the hon. Gentleman see the Chief Justice of the Court of Queen's Bench committed to the Tower, and he will soon be able to discover whom the affections and the sympathies of the people of England do indeed rally. Sir, the difference between the privileges of Parliament and the privileges of the House of Commons has been often shown; and the people of this country do discriminate between Parliamentary privilege and the alleged privileges of one branch of the Legislature. I need not, upon the present occasion, advert to the instances in which the House of Commons, at different periods of its history, has exercised its power;
 1114 1115 1116
 Mr. Hawes  had listened attentively to the speech of the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) and, admitting as he did, that their privileges would be violated, supposing the parties in question proceeded to levy, he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet whether he would be disposed to support a Resolution, the effect of which would be to give notice to the parties that if they proceeded in levying the execution, they would be violating the privileges of the House?
 Mr. C. Buller : I rise, under circumstances of very great embarrassment, to make a statement on a matter which involves private communications between the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department (Sir J. Graham), for whom I entertain a most sincere respect, and myself. I must say, that throughout the whole matter the conduct of that right hon. Gentleman has been the most friendly to myself personally, and his proceedings have been conducted in a spirit of the greatest fairness. I believe his sole object is to promote the public service; and I should therefore be exceedingly sorry that any statement of mine should be in any way annoying to him. I am not aware, however, that there is any ground for entertaining such an apprehension. Perhaps the House will allow me to state some circumstances connected with this matter. I had one or two interviews with Lord Stanley and the right hon. Home Secretary, and I proposed an arrangement by
 1090 sine quâ non, 1091
 The Speaker  suggested to the hon. Member the propriety of suffering the Motion before the House to be disposed of, and of bringing his Resolution forward as an Amendment upon the Motion, when the Order of the Day for considering the question of Privilege was read.
 Mr. C. W. Wynn  said, it was only due to the Committee to say that they applied themselves to the consideration of the subject before them at the earliest moment after they were furnished with the necessary papers. It was impossible for them to offer any opinion upon the question before them until they had the Speaker's warrant and the pleadings, together with the judgment of Court. They met at the earliest possible hour—12 o'clock—and sat up to the latest moment allowed for their proceedings. He did feel it due, in particular, to the hon. and learned Member for Worcester, to say, that he had not only shown great generalship in the mode of dealing with the question, but, also, that he had devoted a considerable portion of his time out of the hours of the Committee most usefully to promote its objects. He entirely concurred in the propriety of the course recommended to the House, namely, of not coming to a decision under the present circumstances of the case. But, at the same time, if any hon. Member thought that the House ought, before Monday, to come to some resolution to resist the levy threatened upon their officer, the present was the time for adopting that course. But, if the House should act otherwise, it would be probably the better course, as then the Committee would have had time to furnish them with a Report containing the precedents and other materials requisite to enable them to come to a right and becoming decision.
 Mr. Ross  said, the noble Lord who had last addressed the House had assumed what he had no right to assume—that persons educated in these academies would be altogether destitute of religious education. He believed, on the contrary, that the practice which had continued up to the present moment in Ireland, of diligently catechising young persons of all religious persuasions at stated occasions, would still prevail. In the part of Ireland with which he was best acquainted, he knew that, on every Sunday, the youths of the Catholics, and the Presbyterians, and the Dissenters, and of the Church of England, regularly attended at their respective places of worship; and he was convinced,
 1142
 Mr. E. B. Roche  wished to know whether the right hon. Baronet intended to adhere to that portion of the Bill which vested the appointment of professors in the Crown?
 Mr. Roche  wished to state that, if it were the intention of the Government to reserve the appointment of professors to the Crown, he would feel it his duty to give the Bill all the opposition in his power.
 Mr. E. B. Roche  had been anxious not to address the House to-night, but after the fair and candid manner in which the right hon. Baronet had stated the course he meant to pursue with regard to this Bill, he felt compelled to make a few observations. He meant to join with the noble Lord the Member for Newark in opposing the further progress of this measure. He admitted the difficulty of dealing with the question of education in the present state of parties in Ireland, and he was ready to give his assent to what had been called the mixed system of education; but he could not but perceive that there were great difficulties in the way of carrying out this measure. By a mixed system of education he understood that the members of different sects and creeds should receive together the ordinary elements of education; that every facility should be given to the clergymen of different denominations to impart religious
 1154 l., l., l. 1155 Member:
 Mr. Horsman  observed, that there was a strong distinction between the case of a man taken in the fact of committing an offence against the game laws, and that of a man who merely committed offences, and was subjected to cumulative penalties in the manner that had happened in Dean's case.
 Mr. Fitz Roy Kelly  reminded the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland that the course which his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General had proposed, was adopted at the express suggestion of the noble Lord the Member for the city of London. That suggestion for a postponement had been acceded to, and then came the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montrose; and following that the proposal of the noble Lord to adjourn the discussion until Monday week. He must call back the attention of the House to the position of this question. The origin was, that a subject of this realm, Mr. Howard, had commenced an action against the Sergeant-at-Arms. It was then open to the House of Commons to take whatever course it thought best to vindicate its privileges; but, with all the information before them, the House had deliberately authorized the Sergeant-at-Arms to appear and plead to the action; and the consequence was, that they submitted to the Queen's Bench the question whether the act of their officer
 1117
 The Solicitor General  was not aware that he had proposed that the House should interfere immediately. He said that he thought the House should do something to prevent the inconvenience to which the Sergeant-at-Arms would be subjected; he, however, agreed in the propriety of postponing the discussion.
 Mr. Fitz Roy Kelly , in explanation, said that with respect to the opinion he had given as to the question, Whether the Sheriffs were to submit to the House of Commons, and refuse to execute the writ? His answer was, that if the Sheriffs, whether under the protection of the House of Commons or not, refused to execute any writ emanating from the Court of Queen's Bench, they would be liable to an attachment, and to remain in prison until they executed the writ. He denied that he had volunteered as a Counsel in the case; he had received a retainer just as he might in any other case, and had argued the question according to his opinion of the law; but he came into that House perfectly free to form an independent opinion, and to do his duty as a Member of that House; and he hoped he should do so until the question had ceased to exist.
 The Solicitor General  thought it impossible for the House to escape from the necessity of coming to a determination as
 1123 1124
 Mr. Aglionby  said, in the absence of the noble Lord (Lord Ingestre) to whom the right hon. Home Secretary had referred, he might be allowed, perhaps, to say a few words. The right hon. Gentleman said he had received from that noble Lord, as the Chairman of the Secret Committee of the New Zealand Company, a letter referring to certain minutes kept by the Secret Committee, which were sent to the right hon. Baronet, in order that he might make any remarks he chose upon them before they were communicated to the shareholders. It would, of course, be in the recollection of the House, that a report appeared in the newspapers of that morning of what took place at the meeting which was held yesterday; but the minutes to which reference was made were not laid before the Directors. The minutes were merely kept for the use of the Secret Committee, and could not be used against the right hon. Baronet. The Committee were appointed by the directors as a Secret Committee to act during the negotiations, and as soon as those negotiations terminated, the Secret Committee were to report to the Directors for their approbation. In making that report they would, of course, be bound to state the grounds on which they might justify the reception or rejection of the proposition of the Government. The Secret Committee determined that minutes ought to be kept, and they took the statement of his hon. Friend the Member
 1094
 Mr. Labouchere  agreed with the right hon. Baronet that, technically speaking, there was no distinct difference between them; but (said the hon. Gentleman) regarding the impression upon the public there will be a difference, and to that impression I attach great importance. Those, who, with me, are anxious to maintain the privileges of this House, have already suffered extremely in the struggle by misapprehension on the part of the pub-.
 1108 Roebuck:
 Mr. Warburton  said, if he could anti-pate from the Report of the Committee that the Committee would ultimately recommend that resistance which the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Worcester on a former occasion had so ably recommended, and which he thought the Committee ought to recommend, he
 1113
 Mr. Roebuck : I will not, Sir, be led away from my purpose by the "prudent course which the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) has advised. I am not influenced by that advice, but I am influenced by the state of the case; and when he says that we are about to come to a hasty decision, I would ask him how often has this question been discussed? Is there, Sir, a human being in the country, or a Member of this House, who has at all thought upon the question, that has not already considered it from beginning to end, and is as well prepared to-night to come to a decision upon it as he could be on Monday, with the assistance of the "learned" Report of the Committee? Sir, this question goes deeper than at first appears. The hon. Baronet opposite, and noble and right hon. Gentlemen on the same side, oppose the privileges of this House—and why? So long as this House was merely the representative of a small portion of the aristocracy, no one stood up for its privileges more eagerly than the high Tory party; but the moment we come to represent the people, or to be something like a representation of the people—the noble Lord (Lord J. Manners) shrugs his shoulders—of course nothing is more contemptible than the representation of the people—but the moment this House comes to represent the people, that moment are its privileges decried. I say, then, now is the time to uphold them.
 1110 Dissent. 1111 Member: 1112
 Mr. Roebuck  seconded the Resolution.
 Mr. Roebuck  wished to ask his hon. and learned Friend this question. Suppose the money was levied by the execution, and no writ of error was brought, the House would be left without a shadow of remedy. If he understood his hon. and learned Friend, his opinion was, that as for their going into the Court of Queen's Bench, it was all very well, it was a mere service of notice; but if you had a writ of error in the Court of Exchequer, you admitted their jurisdiction, because you demanded a writ of error to say whether their judgment was wrong. So that he feared they would find themselves in this difficulty, that they would have allowed the officer to pay the money or to go prison, without remedy for the evil.
 Mr. Roebuck  observed, that the judge was removable by the Crown, and wished to know whether any inquiry had been made by the right hon. Gentleman?
 Mr. Roebuck  rose to bring under the notice of the House a totally different subject. Some time since an occurrence took place in the island of Guernsey, in consequence of the conduct of the Controller General, a functionary whose office was somewhat analogous to that of Solicitor General in this country. It arose out of the case of a peculiar assault made upon a lady in that island. That lady subsequently made an application to the other law officer of the Crown, and thereupon the matter was brought before the Royal Court, and proceedings were taken at the instance of the Procureur General, when it was determined by the Court, upon the circumstances of the accusation, that the party accused had been guilty of no crime. In Guernsey, by rather a peculiar process, the whole matter went on in secret—it was a secret inquiry; and the Court having determined that there was no ground for a criminal proceeding, the complaining party was informed that she might bring a civil action. He wished to know whether the right hon. Baronet had any information to give the House on the subject—whether any steps had been taken by the Government to remedy the wrong, and to prevent its recurrence?
 Mr. Roebuck  said, there was an accusation also against one of the jurats, who were equivalent to judges in this country. He was a relation of the party criminated, and was charged with tampering with the judges.
 Mr. Hume : Sir, I am very sorry to differ from my hon. and learned Friend below me as to the proper steps to be adopted in the present state of the question. This House has implicated its own privileges by making an appeal on that subject to a court of law, which I always was of opinion, and always asserted my opinion, is not competent to deal with our privileges in any shape whatsoever. The House is now getting deeper and deeper into a mess. I say that notice ought to be immediately given of the determination of this House to punish severely whoever shall attempt to arrest or to levy an execution upon our officer. In what does this proceeding originate, Sir? In nothing less than in your warrant, which I shall take leave to read:—
 Mr. Hume  said, in explanation, that he was the last man in the House disposed to cast any blame upon the Committee, or upon his hon. and learned Friend below him; but the question had appeared to him to be of the simplest nature as regarded the privileges of the House, namely, whether they were prepared to defend or to abandon them? The hon. and learned Member for Worcester was, in particular, the very first man who advised the House not to take that course which they had since had so much reason to regret. His own mind, however, was made up. He only blamed the hon. and learned Member for having recourse to expediency,
 1106 "That the House will deem it a high breach of its Privileges on the part of any Person, who shall dare to levy Damages upon one of their servants for having obeyed the Speaker's Warrant."
 Mr. Hume  rose to put a question to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, respecting the committal to prison and subsequent release of a man named Dean, who had been convicted in Berkshire of selling pheasants and pheasants' eggs. That unfortunate man, it appeared, had been committed to Reading gaol for four months. Now, he wished to know whether they had at the Home Office copies of his conviction? whether the right hon. Baronet had taken that conviction into his consideration? whether he thought it legal? and whether, in point of fact, the man had not been released?
 Mr. Hume  inquired if the right hon. Baronet had any objection to producing the record of the case?
 Mr. Hume  was perfectly well aware that there existed in that House a party
 1107 "That this House, adverting to the Resolutions heretofore passed, resolve that they will deem all Persons guilty of a Breach of its Privileges who shall act in the levying any Execution upon the Judgment which has been obtained in the Cause of 'Howard against Gossett,' referred to in the Report presented to this House yesterday."
 Mr. Hume , in reply, said, hon. Gentlemen who were in favour of an adjournment, admitted the evil, but had not the courage to grapple with it. The hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford said, there was no rule why a Member of that House should not give advice against the House. The rule was this, that no Member of the House should appear before a Committee to argue any question in which he ought to be, or rather might be, the judge. He thought that if their privilege was to be asserted at all, it should be asserted now. The hon. Gentleman (the Solicitor General) pointed out all the evils and difficulties of the question, and then sat down without telling the House what he was prepared to do. They were placed in a lamentable position. The action might have been brought against the Speaker himself, and, in fact, as their head it should have been so. He thought that the principals alone ought to be amenable; and he was still disposed to think that Lord Denman should be called to the bar of the House; and, from what the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) had said, he thought it would come to that in the end. What reason was there, he would again ask, why they should not proceed with the discussion? They were now ancle-deep in the mud; why should they become knee-deep? They had been kicked on Monday, as it were, and buffeted on Tuesday; on Wednesday they said they would submit to be kicked again, and they would then, when the evil was done, be courageous enough to grapple with it on the Thursday. He hoped that a sufficient number would be found to agree with him in rejecting a proposition for further delay. Every hon. Member who had heard the speech of the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) must be convinced that he was as anxious to go on as he (Mr. Hume) was; and the right hon. Baronet had offered no excuse whatever for postponing the discussion to a future day. The delay could effect no good object, for they were now in possession of as much information as they should hereafter obtain.
 Mr. B. Osborne  understood that the principle of the Bill was not to be materially altered. The Roman Catholic bishops had called upon the Government to endow the chairs of Physic, Materia Medica, and Anatomy, in the new Colleges, and to assign them to Roman Catholic professors. As a liberal Protestant, residing in Ireland, he must say that he considered this a most monstrous proposition—he could not apply any other term to it; and he thought the Government deserved great honour for the course they had taken with regard to such a proposal. The declaration of the right hon. Baronet could not be mistaken; the right hon. Baronet had stated that he meant to stand by the principle of the Bill. Although he objected to that portion of the Bill which vested the nomination of professors in the Crown, he should not be doing his duty if he failed to give his most cordial support to the Government in the principle they had laid down; and while they had been upsetting a Protestant supremacy in Ireland, he hoped they would not establish a Roman Catholic supremacy.
 Mr. Blewitt  said, there were two ways of proceeding in the case, one by sending the Officer of the House with a proper authority to notify the consequences of further proceedings to the parties, the other by issuing a warrant from the Chair for the apprehension of all who should venture to take any measures against their office.
 Mr. Sheil : I do not press it.
 Mr. Sheil  said, the right hon. Baronet had directly answered the question put to him by the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), and had stated that it was not his intention to make any material alterations in this Bill. He wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet; but if any inconvenience or any prejudice to the measure could arise from his peremptorily answering that question, he would not press it. He wished to ask whether the right hon. Home Secretary objected to religious instruction being given in these Colleges through the intervention of clergymen of the Roman Catholic Church, to Roman Catholic students? and whether such clergymen should be paid by the State from the endowment, or by a tax or charge to be levied upon each Roman Catholic student who might enter the Colleges? He considered this a very material point. The right hon. Home Secretary had already stated that the lecture rooms would be allocated to the use of any Roman Catholic clergymen who might wish to instruct the students. Not only was it proposed to give the Roman Catholic clergy the opportunity, the right, of instructing Roman Catholic students, but a locality was allotted to them for the purpose. It had been suggested that a salary should be paid to these clergymen. Now, a salary could be paid in two ways—either out of the endowment, which made it an act of the State, or by the students, upon whom certain small sums might be levied for the provision of religious instruction. In the
 1135
 Mr. M. Gibson  said, that the conviction was illegal—that the penalties were cumulative
 1095
 Mr. Redington  thought no one could doubt the great advantages of an extended system of education; and every one who knew the state of Ireland must feel that it would be beneficial to all classes there. It was equally certain that every parent, wherever he sent his child to be instructed, wished him to be brought up in the same religious principles he himself professed. The question for him to ask was, whether he could adopt the system offered by the State, and accept its benefits without sacrifice of principle? There were two modes of education — individual and mixed. He had never heard of any objection to the latter. He had never heard it asserted that it was necessary for the Professor of Anatomy at Trinity College being a Roman Catholic. In fact, Roman Catholics were in the habit of studying anatomy in all the medical schools of Scotland and England. There was great advantage in having Dr. Buckland as a professor of geology, but he had
 1159
 Mr. David Dundas  thought his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Kelly) attributed more to himself than he was entitled to assume. He did not think it possible that any Gentleman could take a retaining fee for the advocacy of a particular view of a case, and then come into that House and declare that he was at liberty to do his duty as a free and independent Member of Parliament. He (Mr. Dundas) had the honour of being a member of the Bar, and he was prepared to say that no member of the Bar, being a Member of Parliament, ought to take a brief to support any cause that was in contravention of the privileges of that House. One to whom the House had a right to look for his distinguished services in support of its privileges ought to have been, on that very account, the last to take up a position which rendered it impossible for him to give his good services as a Member of Parliament to the upholding of those privileges. These were his (Mr. Dundas's) private sentiments, and he knew that they were shared in by many. He rose principally to meet the observation of the hon. and learned Gentleman, who said that he was free to give his best opinion upon this subject, uninfluenced by any circumstance, and to say that in his (Mr. Dundas's) judgment the advice of the hon. and learned Gentleman was neither safe for the House to receive, any more than it was fair for him to give. It was said that by allowing an appearance, and a plead-
 1122
 Sir J. Graham  said, if it had been the intention of the Government to propose any material alterations in this Bill, it would have been his duty, in moving the second reading, to explain such alterations in detail. It was, however, his intention to move the second reading, without announcing any such alterations. At the same time the noble Lord and the House were aware that, when the principle of the Bill had been affirmed upon the second reading, it would be open to any hon. Gentleman in Committee to propose such alterations as were not inconsistent with the principle of the measure. The noble Lord had referred to a memorial presented by the archbishops and bishops of the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland to the Lord Lieutenant. He (Sir J. Graham) was bound to state that the adoption of the most material of the alterations, suggested in that memorial, appeared to his Colleagues and to himself to be inconsistent with the principle of the Bill.
 Sir J. Graham  said, it was usual to proceed with the Notice which stood first on the Paper for precedence; and several hon. Members connected with Scotland had left the House under the impression that the Scotch Poor Law Bill would not be brought under consideration to-night.
 Sir J. Graham  said, he had endeavoured to explain the principle of this Bill to the House when he moved its introduction; but he feared he had failed to render himself intelligible. He had stated that it was the earnest desire of
 1136
 Sir J. Graham  did intend to adhere to that principle. Considering all the circumstances of Ireland, and especially those unhappy religious divisions to which he had before referred, he thought it most important that the right of nominating the professors should be reserved to the responsible advisers of the Crown.
 Sir J. Graham  said: I rise with unfeigned pleasure after the speech which has just been made by my noble Friend the Member for Liverpool; for that speech has contributed to relieve me of much pain. It was very painful to me to have it supposed that any proposition of mine should be made to the House under the influence of such motives as upon former occasions, and in other places, have been imputed to me. Although the censure, to which I allude, is in some degree a personal question, yet, I feel that the House of Commons is not the place in which I am willing to make professions upon religious subjects; but I trust that the House will give me the fullest credit when I assure them that no consideration whatever would have induced me to propose any measure to Parliament which could be considered farly open to such condemnation as has beien pronounced upon the Bill now before the House. I am rejoiced to find it admitted, that in the Bill which I introduced I have not neglected to make provision for religious education. But at the same time I still hold, as I always have held, that there would be not the least probability of success for any measure by which it was proposed that the State should make provision for theological instruction. The opinions of more than one hon. Member have been pronounced in favour of a separate system of religious education; and I understood the noble Lord the Member for Newark to contend that there should be a Roman Catholic College in the south, one for Presbyterians in the north, and one for members of the Church of England in Dublin. Instead of removing the angry feelings which unhappily subsist in Ireland, I fear that his scheme of separate instruction, according to difference of creed, would tend to exasperate those feelings to excess; none more certain to produce that effect, none more likely to aggravate existing evils to a lamentable extent. In reference to the passage at the end of the 14th Clause, I must take this opportunity of saying that I consider there would be great difficulty in providing any joint religious
 1145 1146 1147 Regium Donum 1148 1149 "That a fair proportion of the professors and other office-bearers in the new Colleges should be members of the Roman Catholic Church." 1150 "That all the office-bearers in these Colleges should be appointed by a board of trustees, of which the Roman Catholic prelates of the province in which any of those Colleges shall be erected shall be members." "That the Roman Catholic pupils could not attend the lectures on history, logic, metaphysics, moral philosophy, geology, or anatomy, without exposing their faith or morals to imminent danger, unless a Roman Catholic professor shall be appointed for each of those chairs." "That if any president, vice-president, professor, or office-bearer in any of the new Colleges, shall be convicted before the Board of Trustees of attempting to undermine the faith or injure the morals of any student in those institutions, he shall be immediately removed from his office by the same Board." "That as it is not contemplated that the students shall be provided with lodging in the
 1151 1152 Colquhoun: 1153
 Sir J. Graham  explained that between the years 1810 to 1812, no student in Christchurch, Oxford, intending to take his degrees, was compelled to attend any theological lecture or instruction, other that at chapel, without sermon at the roll-call.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that the man whose case had been referred to petitioned the Crown for mercy, and one portion of his imprisonment had been remitted.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that at the Home Office they had nothing except the conviction and the order for committal.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that taking into consideration the consequences that arose out of convictions of this nature, it was a rule at the Home Office not to go into the merits of those convictions with any view to disturb them, otherwise than upon very special grounds, unless when it appeared upon the face of the proceedings that there had been allegations of distinct offences, when in fact there was only one, or when cumulative penalties were inflicted. The case to which the hon. Member referred had been gone into, and one month's imprisonment, it appeared, had been imposed upon Dean for one of the offences charged, and three months for the other, and fines imposed upon him, amounting in the whole to 10 l. s.,
 Sir J. Graham : This conversation is, I believe, rather irregular; but, under the
 1092 1093
 Sir J. Graham  said, the letter from the Lieutenant Governor contained two accusations; one against a law officer of the Crown, and another materially involving the administration of justice, which required more mature consideration on the part of the Government with respect to the means of remedy.
 Sir James Graham  had received from the Lieutenant Governor of Guernsey (we understood) a statement in substance the same as the hon. and learned Gentleman had just made to the House. That statement directly impugned one of the law officers of the Crown; it was referred to that law officer to give a full explanation of his conduct. At the present moment the accusation rested on the statement only of one party; the officer had not as yet obtained any opportunity of making an explanation; and he was sure the hon. and learned Gentleman, admitting the presumption of innocence in favour of an accused party, would wait until that expiation had been given.
 Sir J. Graham  replied, that the accusation appeared to him to embrace the large and entire question of the administration of criminal justice. A matter so grave and important, the hon. and learned Member would see, required the most careful consideration.
 Sir J. Hanmer  said, that if they were at the beginning of the question he should be more disposed to agree to the course recommended by the hon. and learned Gentleman; but after the steps already taken, he thought it behoved them to act with great caution and deliberation. He should therefore vote for the adjournment of the debate.
 Sir J. Walsh  said he was not in that part of the country at the time when the occurrence in question took place.
 Sir R. Inglis  begged to remind the hon. Member (Mr. Hume) that the question before them was, whether at its rising the House should adjourn until Monday next; and consequently the discussion was altogether irregular. The hon. Member had exhibited a considerable degree of warmth, and had shown a very praiseworthy readiness to vindicate by his own personal interference the authority of the
 1102 Hume:
 Sir R. Inglis  said: Although no one can differ upon this question more widely than I do from the hon. Mover and Seconder of the Motion, I nevertheless feel myself bound to say, that I consider the present the only time when they, and those hon. Gentlemen who think with them, can act consistently with the opinions which they entertain upon the subject. If they do not take the sense of the House now, but wait for three days to elapse, when the act of which they complain shall have been perfected, it is idle for them to talk of opposing it. I do not hold, with my right hon. Friend who last addressed the House, that its privileges have been violated; but those who do so contend ought not to shrink from the maintenance of those privileges, but follow the course proposed by the hon. Mover and Seconder of the Motion. I differ from them, and am prepared to oppose the Motion; but with all respect I must say, that they, and
 1109
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, the right hon. Baronet had referred, in a tone of gentle but marked censure, to an expression used by him in a former debate, when he presumed to characterize this scheme in a way which he was compelled to repeat from the taunts to which it had given rise, that it "was a gigantic scheme of godless education." What did his right hon. Friend say in answer to this charge? His right hon. Friend said, that he (Sir R. H. Inglis) had surely known his right hon. Friend too long and too well to utter such an imputation against him. Now, he could assure his right hon. Friend that he had never uttered that accusation against him, nor did he ever say that either the right hon. Gentleman or his Colleagues received this scheme as he received it, or viewed it in the same light as he viewed it. But, in his apprehension, it was as he had characterized it. He did not accuse the right hon. Gentleman individually: nor did he accuse the measure itself as being of an aggressive character; but it was a negation of all religion. What was the justification of the measure urged to-night by a leading Minister, who had charge of it? His right hon. Friend admitted that it was
 1156 1157 1158
 Sir R. H. Inglis  observed, that the principle of the Bill was not the denial or encouragement of any specific theological notion; but the absence of all religious instruction whatsoever, at least as far as that House was concerned. A systematic absence of all religious instruction, then, was the avowed principle of the measure.
 Sir R. Inglis  suggested that the Poor Law Amendment (Scotland) Bill, the second reading of which was fixed for that night, might be taken instead of the Bill then before the House.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, he rose to take the part of his hon. and learned Friend, who had been attacked by the noble Lord when he was not in a position to defend himself; and he did so the more readily, because in the able speech of the hon. and learned Member for Sutherlandshire—which he, in common with the whole House, had listened to with the greatest pleasure—the same subject was alluded to; and there was no portion of the noble Lord's speech which was so cheered as what the noble Lord said of his hon. and learned Friend. His hon. and learned Friend the Member for Cambridge had been attacked for taking a brief in the case of Howard and Gosset. He must say that, if the plaintiff were not to have the advantage of the services of a Member of this House, neither ought the defendant to have the benefit of the services of another Member of this House. In either case the impartiality which his noble Friend was so anxious to preserve in the deliberations of this House, would be violated. Each Member would come into the House alike prejudiced on one side or on the other. He was not conscious of any order of the House on the subject. He was aware it had been alleged by a very high authority that there was a rule prohibiting Members from holding a brief on any matter in which the House was concerned, except with the permission of the House; but, if there were such a rule, he was certain it was violated every day. In a case like that of Queen Caroline's, before the House of Lords, it had been required that Members should have leave to appear; but in no instance of a private action, that he was aware of, had permission been required. He was sure that the value of the services of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Cambridge would be admitted by every one; and, as he was not in a position to make this statement for himself, he felt bound to make these
 1126
 Sir R. Peel : I am perfectly content to vote for the Motion of the noble Lord, that this debate should be adjourned to a future day. There is a difficulty in this case, and in every case connected with privilege, that we are anxious to postpone the evil day, and it is natural that we should; but do not let us suppose that we are escaping from the real difficulty of this case by adjourning the debate. I cannot conceal from myself that if we are disposed to advise resistance to this encroachment on our privileges, the present is the day when we ought to do it. I quite understand the doctrine that by pleading we did not acknowledge the jurisdiction of the Court; but I deeply lament, at the outset, that we ever did consent to plead. I was a party to the Resolutions that the privileges of this House should be exempt from question in a court of law—that we had competent power to protect our privileges, and that we should consider any authority that called them in question guilty of a contempt of this House. Eight days after we came to these Resolutions, we consented to plead in the case of "Stockdale  v. 1127 1128 1129
 Sir R. Peel  said, if they proceeded with the debate now, there was no disposition on the part of the Government to force the House to a decision on the question to-
 1134
 Sir R. Peel  said, the hon. Gentleman could not have listened very attentively to his observations, for if he were to adopt the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman, after having served such a notice as he proposed, if the parties proceeded to levy, it would be necessary to take some steps to punish them; and he (Sir R. Peel) had said that he was not prepared to support the committal of the plaintiff, or any other person. He had said that distinctly, and he was surprised that the hon. Gentleman should have put such a question.
 Sir R. Peel  thought hon. Members ought not to call upon his right hon. Friend and himself to make statements. It was competent to the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Sheil) to raise the question he had just mooted in Committee; but he thought it would be premature on the part of Government to give explanations on points relating, as he considered, not to the principle but to the details of the Bill. He hoped the right hon. and learned Gentleman would not press his question now, but that he would reserve it until the Bill went into Committee.
 Sir R. Peel  believed, that the noble Lord the Member for Newark (Lord J. Manners) was not actuated, in pressing the adjournment of this debate, by any other motives than those he had avowed; but really hours were becoming of great
 1137
 Sir R. Peel  said, that until the noble Lord's Amendment were decided, they could come to no decision upon the real question. It was not competent for them to move the previous question upon that Amendment. The question put was, that the words proposed to be left out stand part of the question. If that were affirmed, they would be in the same position as if the question were put upon the hon. Gentleman's Motion. The effect of the hon. Gentleman's Motion, and the noble Lord's Amendment, would therefore be the same.
 Sir R. Peel  thought the hon. Member for Montrose very ungrateful to the hon. and learned Members, who, in addition to their other labours, had devoted three or four hours a day to the consideration of this important question, besides other researches out of the Committee. He thought the hon. Member for Montrose had very unfairly imputed to the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Sir T. Wilde) a desire to shrink from the vindication of those privileges, on recommending a Resolution which he was aware was attended with difficulties. The hon. and learned Gentleman had not refused the Committee his powerful assistance in vindicating the privileges of that House; he had given them the advantage of his extensive learning in their deliberations, and when a re-
 1105
 Sir R. Peel : I certainly think it was the impression of the Committee that it would be premature to call on the House to express an opinion on that important question, whether or no a writ of error should be moved for against the judgment. I think it would be very desirable that the House should have more notice before they affirm such a Motion; and also that the reasons which induced the Committee to come to that conclusion should be laid before us prior to taking any step which is not absolutely necessary. It was our duty to apprize the House of certain proceedings which might be taken possibly on Monday next, in order that the House might have the opportunity of interposing if they thought necessary. But with respect to whether they should interpose, I think it would be highly desirable not to come to that decision without further consideration.
 Sir T. Wilde : It is choosing one evil less than the other, which is the only alternative. The House is placed in a situation in which it might either immediately determine or permit the plaintiff to levy his damages. It is certainly not desirable that the party should be permitted to levy damages until he obtains the full success of his suit. But the allowing damages to be levied, in no respect interferes with the complete validity of the writ
 1099
 Sir T. Wilde : I will only notice what fell from my hon. and learned Friend with reference to the question of an immediate writ of error. It will be brought, of course, if the House determine it to be an expedient step to take, quite uninfluenced by the circumstance of the damages having been previously levied. The Act of Parliament, which recently passed to prevent writs of error being brought for purposes of delay, has enacted that no writ of error should be a stay of execution, except the party gives bail, undertaking to pay it if the judgment be affirmed; thus securing the plaintiff in recovering damages if it should be affirmed. A writ of error, unless, the judgment be stayed by express order of Court, on application made and came of error shown—has consequently
 1100
 Sir T. Wilde  said, he wished only to say one word. He begged, hereafter, it might not be supposed that he had concurred in this recommendation of postponing the discussion, from an impression that there were no difficulties or objections in the way of permitting the execution of the levy. There were; but he said these were much less than in taking any inconsiderate step. The hon. Member for Montrose complained of the want of attention on the part of the Committee. Certainly, he could say that every hour the Committee sat they had had the benefit of his hon. and learned Friends the Solicitor General's attendance; and he would only say, for his own part, that he had allowed no private business to interfere with the duty of being present at its sittings.
 Sir T. Wilde  said, that if the Resolution of the hon. Member was put and negatived, how could the House hereafter punish any persons for doing that which they deliberately refused to interfere in preventing from accomplishing?
 Sir T. Wilde : Sir, I own that I entertain no doubt of the propriety of the advice I offered the House before I heard the speech of my hon. and learned Friend; but if I had hesitated, the speech of my hon. and learned Friend, and the part he has taken on this subject, would have led me to doubt, upon this occasion, the wisdom of the advice I have offered. My hon. and learned Friend has said, that when it was communicated to this House that an action had been commenced, it was put deliberately to this House whether they should appear and plead. I know not whether he was in the House at that time; but if he were, he would have heard on the part of those who advised the House to that course, a statement that, by appearing and
 1118 1119 1120 1121
 Lord Adare  said, it was not his intention to trouble the House long, as the sentiments expressed with respect to this measure by the noble Lord, corresponded with those which he entertained. He regretted very much to be obliged conscientiously to oppose this Bill in its present state. He opposed it because it did not
 1143
 Viscount Howick  said, that before the hon. Member for Montrose brought his Resolution forward, he would suggest to him the propriety of listening to the advice of the hon. and learned Member for Worcester. If the Resolution were put, and a division ensued, there were no hopes of its being carried. If there were, he would heartily join in it—no one sooner. But as it was not probable it would be agreed to, nothing but mischief would result from moving it.
 Viscount Howick  still remained of opinion that it was of such extreme importance that the House should not pronounce any opinion upon the question at present, that he begged leave to move that the debate be adjourned to Monday week.
 Viscount Howick : I think the hon. Baronet has not exactly understood the object of this discussion. If I understood my noble Friend the Member for London, he advised that the discussion on this subject should be postponed for the present, inasmuch as it was not necessary that there should be any discussion unless some Gentleman was prepared to move that some actual step should be taken towards resistance. My hon. and learned Friend near me, if I understood him, acquiesced in the proposal of postponing the discussion, not as the hon. Member for Montrose supposes, because he is prepared to depart from the course he formerly recommended, of requiring this House to defend its privileges, and not to trust to other tribunals, but to its own powers. Because, my hon. and learned Friend says, assuming that the House means to defend its privileges, we ought to have further time to consider what steps should be taken with that view. He sees the evil of allowing those damages to be actually paid; but he says it would be a less evil, and open to greater objections, to take any inconsiderate step. What I understand my hon. and learned Friend to say is this, that although we allow the damages in the first instance to be paid, still, if the House take his advice, excellent as I think it, and determine to maintain its privileges, it will be equally in our power to make the party who has received the damages refund what he has obtained, and punish all the parties who had assisted him in infringing the privileges of this House, as it is now to take those strong steps which may be necessary to
 1103
 Viscount Sandon  could not conceive that the principle of this Bill was one which made it fair to call it a "gigantic scheme of godless education." He conceived that it was framed upon the principle, not of its being generally expedient to set religious instruction aside, but of its being, in the peculiar circumstances of Ireland, extremely inconvenient to apply that instruction to the people through an educational establishment endowed by the State. In former times, when conformity to the religion of the State was the rule, and the departure from it the exception, Colleges were founded on principles of domiciliary and parental instruction, embracing both secular science and religious truth. But in the present very different state of opinion, the adoption of the same principle was clearly impossible. This position the Bill now before them seemed to him, by its provisions, to admit and adopt. It was a measure, he believed, on the right road in regard to the peculiar circumstances of Ireland; and the very fact of his not agreeing with all its provisions, made him the more anxious to see it pass through its second reading, and come before them in a stage when they could introduce into it those improvements which might seem advisable. The demands of the Roman Catholic bishops were such, however, as he was disposed
 1144
 Colonel Wood  wished to put to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department a question connected with the fire which took place in Dover-street, and the evidence given before the coroner's inquest. He understood that some of it related to fire escapes, and the propriety of hotels being provided with ladders and other facilities for escape. He wished to know whether this evidence had been reported to the right hon. Gentleman, and if any measure of precaution was in contemplation?
 Mr. A. B. Hope  said, that his hon. Friend had somewhat freely condemned the English Universities. In that censure he did not concur. He had always taken a strong view of the present measure. The speech of the right hon. Gentleman on Friday night had confirmed him to the utmost in his apprehensions that this measure, though innocent in appearance, was a measure most dangerous in principle, and such as to make all persons of Conservative principles feel it their duty to give it their firmest opposition. His noble Friend had suggested that this Bill might be amended in Committee; but it seemed to him (Mr. Hope) that the evils of this Bill, not merely adhering to it, but absolutely inherent in it, forming its very lifeblood, its body and soul, would not be removed by any Amendment. He always feared that the measure before the House might be extended as a successful application—as a kind of felicitous opportunity for the introduction to the fashionable circles of the Carlton Club, of those principles of liberal education which had hitherto been confined to the vulgar purlieus of Gower Street. The whole tone of the right hon. Baronet's speech confirmed those apprehensions to the utmost; there was little in it about the unhappy condition of Ireland, and the peculiar circumstances which rendered that country in many respects different from any other; but when he came to the precedents of University College, London, and the Scotch Universities, he became diffuse and eloquent. Not content with putting them on an equality with the Universities of England, he concluded with giving, indirectly indeed, but virtually, the preference to them, by referring to the state of discipline at Oxford thirty and forty years ago, when, as every one knew, things were very different from what they were
 1252 1253 1254
 Mr. Villiers Stuart  observed, that in Ireland the higher classes were receiving the best education, and the peasants also were provided with schools; the time would soon come when the middle classes would form an unfavourable contrast with both, by their inefficient education. The Bill at all events proved that attention was paid to the wants of Ireland, and that an endowment was not grudged by the House. For himself he should have thought that a system of mixed education could be arranged which might diminish religious asperities; but it would be folly to overlook the objections of the Roman Catholic prelates and clergy, and their opinions were entitled to the utmost consideration. Their present proposals were most unreasonable; for instance, claiming
 1255 "I was told by my bishop that no Protestant clergyman could, consistently with his duty, visit a national school, even for the purpose of seeing the rules fairly carried out; and, in reference to the national school I had established, he would be better pleased if I had no school at all."
 Mr. Gladstone  said, he agreed with the noble Lord who had that evening addressed the House, that this was an imperfect measure; but the cause of its imperfection was to be found in the present state of Ireland. Divided as Ireland was, not only by social and political, but by religious questions, it was impossible to devise any scheme of education which could at all approximate to ideal perfection. Therefore, the question was not the abstract question of perfection; but whether the measure proposed was the best, upon the whole, to meet the present state of that country and its exigencies. At the same time he must say, that he
 1261 1262 1263 1264 1265 1266 1267 1268 1269
 Mr. Acland  said, he had pledged himself on a former occasion to give his best attention to the measure of the Government, and to apply himself more particularly to the means by which it intended to carry out its objects. He felt, in some respects, supported in the view which he was on the whole disposed to take, by the circumstance that no speaker in favour of the measure upon his side of the House, had given anything like an unqualified approbation of it. Much in the manner of the last speaker, they left the Bill, like the horse's tail in the story, when every hair had been plucked out separately until the stump alone was left. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Waterford (Mr. Wyse) had found fault with the patronage being invested alone in the Government, as well as with the power of removal of the professors, which the Bill conferred upon Her Majesty's Government. There had been a reiteration of the assurance that this measure was founded upon a sound principle; and it was upon that very assurance he confessed that his vote would depend that night. He had been disposed to give credit to that assurance, in the first instance, because the measure had been brought forward by a Conservative Government. Although persons in power might assure their supporters that a measure which was looked on with suspicion by many was founded upon sound principles, it still became hon. Members, who were neither in place, nor looking up to it, to examine such a measure scrupulously. In adopting a recommendation of the Committee upon the subject of education, which had reported in the year 1826 that any system of education which could be applicable to Ireland must be that from which all suspicion should be banished, it appeared to him that the right hon. Baronet had adopted it in a different sense from that which it bore. He (Mr. Acland) was convinced that it would be absurd to attempt any general system of education in Ireland, unless it was concurred in by the Roman Catholic clergy of Ireland; but, so far from that being the case, this Bill had met with an united and unanimous protest from the Roman Catholic bishops; and when he saw  1276 1277 1278
 Lord John Russell : I quite agree, Sir, with one observation made by the hon.
 1238 1239 1240 1241 1242 1243 1244 1245 1246 1247 1248 1249 l.
 Mr. Shaw , before the debate closed, would ask the House to allow him to state, in a few words, the reason of the vote be would give on that occasion. He thought increased facilities for the education of the middle classes in Ireland were much required. His hon. Friend (Mr. Acland) had made and observation, as to the general supporters of the second reading, which would apply to him (Mr. Shaw). He could not support the present scheme as by any means a perfect system of education—but he did not understand it as professing to be so—and as no one who had spoken in opposition to it had suggested what he (Mr. Shaw) could regard as a less objectionable plan for the purpose, and he was not prepared to propose one—he felt that under all the circumstances and admitted difficulties of the case, he could not refuse a vote in favour of the second reading of the measure then brought before the House upon the responsibility of Her Majesty's Government. In reference to an observation of his right hon. Friend (Sir Robert Peel) that these Colleges would probably be in some time united into one university, he (Mr. Shaw) was of opinion that the institutions to be founded by the Bill would be more in the nature of large public day schools, than what could be properly termed Colleges—if that implied
 1293 1294 1295
 Mr. George A. Hamilton  said, that, considering the importance and peculiar character of the measure before the House, he did not feel—although he had much difficulty in coming to a decision—that he should be justified, or that it would be a straightforward course, to abstain from voting; and he should certainly have been sorry to give a silent vote on such an occasion. He had always thought, and always maintained, and must always maintain—speaking of education generally—that nothings deserves the name of education which is not founded upon religion, and in which secular instruction is not combined with
 1256 1257 1258 1259
 Mr. Morgan J. O'Connell  begged the attention of the House whilst he stated briefly the grounds on which he should vote, as he felt compelled to differ from those with whom he generally acted. The question raised was, as to the principle of a system of mixed education. He had always been in favour of mixed education in Ireland; he had himself received the benefits of a mixed education, which had enabled him to see that the Roman Catholics had nothing to fear from any attempts to undermine their faith on the part of the Protestants. The main truths of Christianity were common to them all; and what they most wanted was charity towards one another. The principle of this Bill was that which had revolutionized Ireland, the principle of extending secular education unaccompanied with religious instruction. To that principle he would give his support; the moral movement in Ireland owed its force to the education of youth in the national schools, by supplying them with occupations which led them away from the social excitements in which
 1292
 Mr. Bernal Osborne  said, he should have another opportunity of bringing the whole conduct of the Bishop of Cashel before the House, when he would go fully into the nature of his charge. He would not, therefore, detain the House by any observations on the subject at present. With regard to the question before the House, he begged to say that he should not support the Amendment of the noble Lord. It was a difficult task for the Government to deal with the subject of Irish education. In the present instance they were "damned with faint praise" by their own friends, and met by opposition from parties who ought to have given them support. The
 1260
 Mr. Monckton Milnes , resuming the Adjourned Debate, said, he should confine himself strictly to the Motion before the House — the Second Reading of the Colleges (Ireland) Bill. The measure had been opposed on two very different grounds—the one intelligible and logical, but of the other he could not say as much. One kind of opposition had been raised by the hon. Members for the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge; and this he would call the Protestant opposition. Those hon. Members had some time ago refused to contribute anything to the education of the Roman Catholic clergy; and now they asserted that it was impossible for the present Government to do anything for the education of the laity of Ireland. They said they would not allow of this education, because it was not religious; but surely they would see that there was a sophism in their argument. They used the term religion not in the sense in which a Roman Catholic would use it, but in a sense peculiarly Protestant. Therefore, if the argument assumed this form, the Government must either establish colleges in Catholic Ireland upon Protestant principles, or those hon. Gentlemen would not assent to any colleges at all. What was that but the absolute evasion of all education whatever for Roman Catholics? But another line of argument had been adopted by his noble Friend the Member for Newark, and his noble Friend who had seconded him, and a strong pamphlet had been put forth, which it was probable some hon. Members had read, in which the "ungodlies" of Her Majesty's present Government had been spoken of as if the writer had not liked to use the hard Greek word Atheist, but had preferred the negative expression. If the whole subject were examined, it would be found that there had been in different periods of the world two great academic systems. One of them had arisen in the middle ages, and had been fostered by the Catholic Church; and upon that had been founded the two Universities of Oxford and Cambridge. No doubt at that time there had existed throughout the whole of the European Universities a strong and severe religious discipline, and there had also been the inroduction of religious matter into all the
 1236 1237
 Mr. More O'Ferrall  felt, as one intimately connected with Ireland, that he ought to express his opinion on this question. The present measure, and that for the endowment of the College of Maynooth, had been introduced in such a manner, that if he differed partly from the principle, and generally from the details of the present Bill, he came to that conclusion with extreme regret. He fully admitted the great difficulty the Government had to contend with; but he could assure them, if they felt those difficulties, that they were also felt by others, and especially by those connected with the Irish representation. The great difficulty of the Government was to be found in a cause which it was impossible to remove. It was to be found in the great distrust with which the whole Roman Catholic population regarded the Government. If that distrust existed with regard to political questions, it was enhanced when they came to deal with those questions which touched religion. It must be admitted that the policy of the present Government had been, like that of its predecessors, to undermine, weaken, and destroy the Catholic religion. The hon. Member for Wigan used a strong expression with regard to the Resolutions put forward by the Roman Catholic prelates. He did not go the length of those rev. Prelates; but their protest must be taken as a short expression of that distrust which prevailed throughout the body of the Catholics. It was said the Catholics were satisfied with the system of national education. Why not with this? Let them consider the national system, and the difference would soon be seen. The Government appointed ten Commissioners, six being Protestants, and only four Catholics? Let it be recollected that the Catholic body made a great concession in saying that a mixed system could be well conducted under a Board in which the Protestants were as six to four. But they felt that every rank of the Catholics was represented in that Board. Now, it was that Board which appointed the professors and the teachers, which regulated the system of instruction, and which possessed the power of withdrawing the salary of the master if he violated the principles on which the institution was founded. Let them compare such a measure, which gave the Catholics real securities against any tampering with their religious opinions, with the proposed Government Bill. The Government was Protestant, and was
 1279 l.
 Mr. Wyse  said, that having troubled the House, when the Bill was first introduced, with remarks to some extent on the subject to which it referred, he would not again have trespassed on their indulgence, had not a demonstration of public feeling, to a certain degree adverse, since taken place in its regard. Two questions arose: first, as to whether there were not defects in the present measure; and, secondly, as to whether these defects were of that radical kind which would interfere with its principle, or its efficient working. With respect, then, to academical education, strictly so termed, the first question which necessarily attracted the attention of the inquirer would now be, whether the measure proposed really offered a proper and consistent system for its establishment and support? They should Consider whether it was not, as he had on a former evening stated it to be, defective in not providing a preliminary Course of education sufficiently extensive and general between it and elementary education; and, secondly, in not carrying it still further, until it reached university education, either by opening the University of Dublin, or by constituting these Colleges into a separate university of themselves. He regretted the Government had not announced in definite terms how far they intended to make the present measure a part of the great plan suggested by the Report of the Committee of that House in 1835. These, it would be perceived, were defects, arising not from too much, but too little: he complained not of its principle, far from it. The objections which had been urged against it had not altered one iota of his conviction of the great national advantages resulting from a mixed system of public education. But in saying this, he did not preclude himself from the right of objecting to any of the details of the mode in which the principle was proposed to be carried out. The admission of the necessity for academical
 1270 1271 1272 1273 1274 ex officio, ex officio, 1275
 Mr. Blackstone  wished to take an opportunity of saying a few words on behalf of a learned body representing the College of Christ Church, Oxford, who conceived that the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary had attacked them unjustly in some observations which had escaped him on a previous evening. The right hon.
 1233 " Christ Church, June "Dear Sir,—The first form of examination statute, departing from the provisions of the Laudian Code, is dated May 21, 1800; it contains the following clause;—'Porro in omni examinatione nunquam non adjiciantur rudimenta religionis et doctrinæ articuliin Synodo Londini anno 1562 editi; in quibus, juxta academiæ statuta, a tutoribus instituendi sunt omnes qui illorum tutelæ committuntur.'—Tit. ix., 2. 2. The allusion here made has regard to a clause in the Laudian statute, which is still in force:—'Tutor vero scholares tutelæ et regimini suo commissos probis moribus imbuat, et in probatis autoribus instituat; et maxime in rudimentis religionis, et doctrinæ articulis in Synodo Londini anno 1562 editis; ac pro virili suo disciplinæ in ecclesia Anglicana publice receptæ eos conformes præstabit. Quod siquis in aliquo prædictorum deliquerit, arbitrio Cancellarii vel Vice-Cancellarii coer-ceatur.' The public provision made for this in Christ Church is by a lecture delivered on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays during term, immediately after morning chapel, and made compulsory on all classes during their third year, with an examination at collections in the subject of the term's lecture. I came to Christ Church in 1822, and I found the practice existing of tutors devoting the Saturday, or sometimes a part of Sunday, to familiar catechetical lectures with such of their pupils as were not included in the public course. The intercourse on this occasion was more friendly, the obligation of attendance less strict, and no account of it was rendered at collections. This practice you remember, and it has continued with such differences as each individual has thought convenient. The requisitions of the present examination statute are more particular on the subject of religion than that quoted, as you know. The statute is dated the 23rd of November, 1830. Each
 1234 "J. LEY. "W. I. Blackstone, Esq., 28, Albemarle-street."
 Sir J. Graham  said, that lest it should be supposed he had said anything either harsh or unjust towards a College for which he entertained very sincere and cordial feelings, he begged to make a few observations. The rev. gentleman referred to by the hon. Member had been so obliging as to send him a copy of the letter which the House had just heard read; but with reference to the point upon which its contents touched, the rev. writer was so much his junior at the College as not to be able to speak upon his own knowledge of the practice of the College under his control at the period when he (Sir J. Graham) was a student there. What he had stated was, that during the years 1810 to 1812, those being the two years in which he resided at Christ Church—he did not say that he was not allowed—but that he was not obliged—not compelled to attend theological or divinity lectures; although on his first or preliminary examination the Greek Testament did certainly form part of the preparation which he had to make. But he asserted, and he did so advisedly, that during the whole period of his stay at Christ Church, he had received no assistance whatever to prepare him for such examination, nor was he obliged to attend divinity lectures, nor did he hear one University sermon whilst he was at Oxford. In the third year of their stay, it was true, the graduates were called upon to attend an hour during three days in the week to a divinity or theological lecture; that practice commenced in 1810, and it still continued. He should be sorry to be supposed to have said anything to disparage the College in question; and he was very glad to find that the observations which he had made had had the effect of eliciting
 1235
 Sir J. Graham  said, the evidence at the late inquest had not yet been officially reported to him. With reference to the policy of taking any precaution against fire in the police arrangements of this metropolis, that matter had been carefully considered by him some time ago, and, at his request, his noble Friend at the head of the Woods and Forests had endeavoured to obtain from several foreign countries—from Paris, Vienna, and the United States—information as to the precautions taken in those countries. He confessed he had a strong impression that it would not be advisable to connect those precautions with the police, but that, as in Paris, a separate establishment should be created, the duty of which it should be to take precautions against fire. His noble Friend had not obtained all the information he desired; but when he should have obtained that information, it would be his duty, in conjunction with his Colleagues, to consider of a substantive measure on the subject, and to present it to Parliament.
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, I certainly thought, until I heard the speech of my hon. Friend the Member for Somerset (Mr. Acland), that whatever difference of opinion may prevail upon the details of this measure, there had been a general concurrence in one sentiment—that if we could overcome the difficulties which arise from different
 1280 1281 "The extent and quality of our supplies of fuel, the distribution and amount of our sources of water power, the locality of our mines of copper and other useful metals, have engaged attention, as well as the condition of the soil, the amount of its produce, and the general principles upon which its cultivation will remunerate. With such elements of prosperity lying at our hands, it becomes a problem of high importance to resolve why they have not been made available, and why this country has been left behind by other nations, whose natural circumstances are in few instances superior, but in many particulars certainly less advantageous." 1282 1283 1284 1285 1286 1287 "It is hardly necessary to inquire from you whether there is any danger of the religious principles of Roman Catholics being interfered with in any way by their attendance at the Belfast Institution?" He says—"No; I do not think there is. Some Roman Catholic gentlemen sent their sons to this institution; and, though they were not of my parish or diocese, they were obliged to attend public worship in my parish." "Have you ever heard complaints, that the attendance of Roman Catholics on the institution was attended with any danger to their faith?" He replies—"Never. If I had, I should have interfered to prevent it; but I never apprehended, in the slightest degree, anything of the sort." 1288 "I am personally acquainted with several of the professors." And he is asked—"Have any of those professors conducted themselves in any way offensive towards Roman Catholics?" "No; quite the contrary. Some of the professors requested that I would revise some copies of the Roman Catholic Scriptures for the use of the Roman Catholic pupils; and, though they are ministers of the Presbyterian Church, I believe they have paid proper and respectful attention to the religious principles of the Roman Catholic scholars." 1289 1290 1291
 Sir Valentine Blake  would vote for the second reading. He was not satisfied with the Bill; he hoped considerable alteration would be made, and that the Government would not hurry it through Parliament.
 Lord Mahon  had given his most anxious consideration to the measures of Her Majesty's Government with respect to education in Ireland. To the first of these measures, the Bill for the endowment of Maynooth, he was glad that he had been able to afford in its different stages a conscientious support. On this second measure, with respect to Irish Colleges, he should also vote in favour of the second reading of the Bill; but he was bound frankly to declare that he should so vote only in the hope that the Bill would receive great amendment in Committee; and if such amendment were not made, it would be his duty—his unwelcome duty, but he would not shrink from it—to give his decided opposition to the third reading. He would point out plainly and concisely the nature of the Amendment which he thought desirable. What was the leading defect in the Bill? Could any one doubt that the defect was to be found in the utter want of security for religious instruction? He said want of security; for although it was true that the Bill did not repel but rather invited private benefactions for religious instruction, what security was there that ten or even fifty years would not elapse without any such provision being made? He should consider it an evil precedent for future legislation, if even for a single year they were to adopt the principle of dissociating secular from religious instruction. In the year 1839, when the Government of that day proposed a measure which in his opinion did not sufficiently recognise the association of religion with instruction, he moved the direct negative to the proposal; and so strong was then the feeling both in the House and in the country, that although the Government of the day prevailed, they prevailed only by a majority of two. He had since attentively reviewed the vote he then gave, and
 1250 1251
 Lord J. Russell  was rejoiced at the conclusion at which the right hon. Baronet had arrived; and if he added a word it would be to express his own opinion on the question, that instead of any reproach falling on Government for neglecting Sir H. Pottinger, it had been forward to recognise his merits and reward his services. He hoped, therefore, that nobody would think there was any party in the House disposed to find fault with the right hon. Gentleman and his Colleagues for the course they had pursued. If Sir H. Pottinger had not been employed sufficiently long to entitle him to a pension, he (Lord J. Russell) apprehended that the eminence of his services ought to make up for any brevity in their duration. He admitted that the general rule had been correctly stated by the right hon. Baronet; but he held this to be an extraordinary exception. It was impossible to state the services of Sir H. Pottinger more strongly than they had been admitted by the right hon. Gentleman; but with regard to the instructions under which Sir H. Pottinger had acted, as respected exclusive privileges of trade, it was but fit to state that his noble Friend (Lord Palmerston), in one of his original despatches to Captain Elliot, had used these words:—"You will bear in mind that the British Government does
 1392
 Mr. V. Smith  heard with regret that it was the intention of Ministers to oppose the present Motion; he must say, he thought a more unwise proceeding on their part could not be imagined. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War said, he could not see the object of this Motion, as all the information that could be gained by the Committee, was already before the House. His hon. Friend had stated the object he had in view distinctly. Repeated assertions of the most contradictory tendency were made from both sides of the House: it was the object of this Motion to put an end to these, and to place correct information on the subject to which it related before the House. The right hon. Gen-
 1421 l., l. 1422
 Sir J. Tyrrell  said, every argument addressed to the House by the hon. Member for Sheffield was to be found in print; but he could not see how the right hon. Secretary at War could reconcile his observations with those of the Home Secretary. The hon. Member for Stockport had alluded to an argument of his on the subject of rating stock in trade; but he had sat four hours with the Representatives of twenty-three counties, and they had all stated that they were betrayed by Her Majesty's Government. The story went of the right hon. Secretary at War, that when he went to see his yeomanry a week or two since, he was not well received by any except his own troops, who were called "the winners." But, to revert to the question of rating stock in trade; he would call the attention of the hon. Member for Stockport to the great inconvenience that would arise from quarterly examination of stock. He denied the proposition that the agriculturists were benefited by the reductions that had taken place in the duty on rapeseed, wool, and other articles; and argued that it afforded no ground, therefore, for a reduction of the duty on wheat. The case of the reduction on wool might be a very good pistol for the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government to present at the head of the Duke of Richmond; but it was not one which went on all fours. What he asked for was, that the dish should be held even as he was not of those who
 1423 s. s.
 Mr. Sidney Herbert  felt that he laboured under some difficulty in replying to the speech of the hon. Member, who upon this as upon all questions of this kind, had brought a great number of details before the House; but before he proceeded further he might be permitted to observe that the hon. Gentleman had set an example which he hoped would be followed throughout the course of a debate on a subject which often gave rise to much heat and animosity, namely, that he had spoken with much good humour. With respect to the speech of the hon. Member, he (Mr. Herbert) felt that if there was any confusion on the subject before, the hon. Gentleman, by the course he had that night taken, had added to the amount. Although a considerable change had taken place in public opinion as to the effects of the measures brought forward by Her Majesty's Ministers, which they had been told would introduce ruin to the agricultural interest, and which they had also been told had been brought forward at a most improper period, he was glad to find that the complaints on this subject were subsiding. He was often surprised to hear the principles of free trade, in themselves abstractedly true, advocated on such very different grounds, and he suspected that the nature of the argument was oftener adapted to the audience to which it was addressed, than to the subject itself. This was so often the case, that men are often at a loss to understand what object the free traders had in view. The noble Lord the Member for the city of
 1411 1412 1413
 Mr. Newdegate  said, that he for one lamented that the Speaker was occupied by the duties of the Chair; not but that he fully appreciated the value of the right hon. Gentleman's services in maintaining the dignity and authority of that House so ably as he did, but because the House and the country stood sadly in need of men possessing such experience and ability as the right hon Gentleman had in the discussion of this most important subject. The hon. Member for Sheffield had made free use of the fashion set by the noble Lord the Member for London, who had declared that in his estimation protection was the bane of agriculture—a fashion which it appeared the two right hon. Baronets, Secretaries of State, desired to follow. Now if these right hon. Gentlemen were really of opinion that protection was injurious to the best interests of England, he (Mr. Newdegate) could not but pity those right hon. Gentlemen, who had for years knowingly contributed to perpetuate the infliction of injury upon their country. One, however, most important and necessary element of this inquiry had been touched upon, though but slightly, by the noble Lord, on the discussion of his late Resolutions; namely, the effect of the present high value of our currency upon the interests of agriculture. That this point must form an element of the proposed inquiry, no one could doubt who had read the financial statement of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, when introducing the Property Tax in 1842. With reference to the rental of land, he said—
 "Now I cannot doubt that the return of peace and the cessation of war prices must have had a considerable effect in reducing the rental of land; and, taking into consideration the effect of the restoration of the currency, the rental of land may probably at first have fallen far below that amount; but still, when I look at the improvement which agriculture has received from mechanism, and the application of science to land, I cannot but entertain a conviction that the present rental of
 1416 * * 1417 l. l., l. l.; l., l. l. l.; l., l., l., l.; l.; l. l.; l., l. l., 1418 l., l. l. l. l.; l.; l. l. l. l., l. l. l., l. 1419 1420
 Mr. Ross , representing, as he did, the town which gave birth to Sir H. Pottinger, might be excused for bearing testimony to his merit, and saying that he most cordially supported the Motion before the House.
 Dr. Bowring  said it was an undoubted fact, that the land in England was taxed in a far smaller proportion to the State than it was in most of the other countries in Europe. It must be obvious, however, that the present tendency of legislation was to free commerce from its trammels; and agriculture must also share in the benefits of that release. England had long been pursuing a most vicious line of policy. The legislative powers had been confided to the landowners, and it was now high time to release commerce and agriculture from the shackles imposed on them by the landed classes. At all events, inquiry was imperative on the House; and he, therefore, should vote for the appointment of a Select Committee.
 Mr. J. A. Smith  eulogized the conduct of Sir H. Pottinger. That gallant officer was no party to the Motion before the House; and it was, therefore, the more honourable and gratifying to him.
 Mr. Hume , in rising to submit the Motion of which he had given notice to the House, said, he could assure the House that he did so with very considerable diffidence as to the propriety of the course he had adopted. He confessed he had expected that Her Majesty's Ministers would have saved him the trouble of bringing the subject before the House; but seeing that they had not done so, and entertaining strong opinons on the question, he thought it his duty to interfere. He was aware that the very Motion implied a degree of censure on Her Majesty's Ministers, it he were correct in the opinion he had formed, which was, that a public officer, entrusted with the most important duties, who had performed them to the perfect satisfaction of every individual acquainted with the country which formed the scene of his services, remained to this time unrewarded for those important services; and the object of the present Motion was to call upon the House to mark their sense of them by such a reward as might be deemed becoming their magnitude. He knew how hard it was for any individual in that House to bring forward any question to which Her Majesty's Ministers declared themselves opposed; and it was on that ground he felt he had taken upon himself a responsibility from which he could only be freed by finding that the House concurred with him generally in the course he had adopted, and sanctioned the Resolution he was about to propose. If he were asked whether he knew anything of Sir H. Pottinger or his friends,
 1375 1376 l. l. l. l. 1377 "With respect to Sir Henry Pottinger, I think that the opportunity which I took on a former occasion of publicly acknowledging the sense entertained by the Government of the services of that distinguished man, must exempt the Government from the suspicion of wishing to throw any slight upon him.…… And now, when others concerned in the same expedition are to receive a mark of public gratitude, I should be sorry to allow the opportunity to pass without repeating the sentiments I then expressed. I wish it had been consistent with usage to have included the name of Sir Henry Pottinger in the Vote." * "I can well enter into the feelings of this distinguished man—distinguished not only for his civil qualifications, but for his military service—when he sees this public acknowledgment of the brilliant achievements of his brothers in arms, and feels that he cannot partake in the thanks of Parliament.…… We have, however, entreated him to remain until we can benefit by his opinions and advice upon many important matters connected with the adjustment of our future relations with China; and I assure the hon. Gentleman, that if Sir Henry * 1378 Pottinger will recall his decision, and remain permanently in China, he will possess the entire confidence of Her Majesty's Government; and we should think that we had succeeded in making the arrangement of all others the most beneficial to the country." * Alison's History of Europe. "In the Council held to frame the 'Code Napoleon,' it was proposed by Count Mathieu Dumas that the order of the Legion of Honour should be confined to military men. 'Such ideas (said Napoleon) might be well adapted to the feudal ages, when the chevaliers combated each other man to man; but it is science and skill which now determines the fate of nations. What is it now which constitutes a great general? It is not the mere strength of a man six feet high, but the  coup d'æil, "And now he begged leave to advert to the very distinguished man whose labours had given these benefits and advantages to his country. He alluded to Sir H. Pottinger. It was impossible for their Lordships to imagine the difficulties and obstructions which Sir H. Pottinger had to encounter during this * 1379 most arduous negotiation. Acting in a country so entirely new, and so entirely different from any in which his experience had previously been engaged, he had contrived (great and complicated as the difficulties were by which he was surrounded), by the energy of his character and by the activity of his mind, to surmount them all. And, what was most remarkable, in a country where suspicion and distrust were proverbial, he contrived to establish complete confidence amongst those with whom he had to negotiate, almost to a miracle. Great as were the benefits that had been secured to this country, he did not hesitate to say that they were mainly attributable to the personal energy and ability of Sir H. Pottinger. He was now about to leave the situation in which he had effected so much good; and he (the Earl of Aberdeen) was quite sure that his retirement must be the subject of deep regret to that House and to the Government, who would find it exceedingly difficult adequately to supply his place. They would, however, adopt such measures as would, he hoped, render the loss of this admirable public servant as little severe as possible." "I know not, Gentlemen, how far it is generally known, that though undoubtedly, at that time to the right hon. Gentleman was not entrusted the superintendence of any military and naval movements, yet to him a large discretion was given by the Government, which fully confided in his talent and ability, of saying at what period those naval and military arguments had attained to such a height as to lead to the introduction of more polished diplomatic intercourse, to say at what time the arms of Britain should be stayed, and how soon the process of negotiation might commence. And when that period arrived, honourable alike to the arms of Britain and to the humanity and forbearance with which they were wielded, Her Majesty's Government had but the gratifying task, step by step, of applauding and approving the discretion, the temper, the judgment, and the forbearance with which those delicate negotiations were subsequently conducted by the right hon. Gentleman. In that department the right hon. Gentleman was more peculiarly responsible to another Member of Her Majesty's Government; but I had the satisfaction in another point of view of being brought universally into connexion with the right hon. Gentleman. I saw his untiring labours and his zealous assiduity in forming or founding a new Colonial society—in supervising the foundation of a Colony where all was new and strange—where obstacles were to be encountered from mutual prejudices, from ignorance of each other's habits, from omissions upon the one side, and upon the other from unreasonable demands and exorbitant expectations; and I saw the right hon.
 1380 'To read his history in a nation's eyes.'" "That this House will, upon Tuesday, the 24th day of this instant, June, resolve itself into a Committee, to consider the following Resolution:—That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, that She will be graciously pleased to grant such a pension as She shall think proper, to the right honourable Sir Henry Pottinger, Baronet, K.C.B., as a reward for his eminent public services, and especially for having, as Her Majesty's Plenipotentiary in China, brought the war in that country to a conclusion by a peace alike honourable and advantageous; and to assure Her Majesty that this House will make good the same."
 Mr. Hume  was sorry that the right hon. Baronet had not communicated his determination to him an hour before the House sat, as he should then have been prevented from encroaching so much as he had done upon the time of the House. He was pleased beyond measure to find that the Government had come forward to sanction the proposition which he had made. The course which the right hon. Baronet had taken was most prudent and praiseworthy; and, as he had given his assent to the Motion, he (Mr. Hume) hoped it would be carried  nemine contradicente.
 Mr. P. Howard  said, that the family of Sir H. Pottinger were connected with the
 1394
 Mr. Cobden : The right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down said, there was no one in that House who had not a distinct opinion on the question of the Corn Laws. Judging from the speech of that right hon. Gentleman, there was one exception to that rule—the right hon. Gentleman himself. He must acknowledge he was completely at a loss to determine what was the drift of the right hon. Gentleman's argument. He could not tell at that moment whether the right hon. Gentleman maintained that tithes belonged to the landlord or the Church. The right hon. Gentleman argued the question of tithes as if they were then collected under the old system; but as at present levied, tithes were no more a burden on the landlord than on the shopkeeper. He had found himself in cathedral cities defending the right of the clergy to the tithes, as opposed to the landlords. Again, as to the poor rates; if the manufacturer did not pay rates on the straps of his machinery, neither did the landlord on his standing corn. The hon. Member for Essex cast a jealous eye on such establishments as Storr and Mortimer's, and asked why they were not assessed to the poor. But if the proprietors of such establishments read the pamphlets of protectionists distributed at Pall Mall, they would find the capital in land set down at 250,000,000 l., l. 1414 1415
 Mr. Ward  rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice. If it were not for the peculiar aspect of the House, which imported premature dissolution, he might congratulate himself upon the successful issue of two Motions on that (the Opposition) side of the House. He did not observe on the opposite Benches the antagonists whom he was in the habit of seeing there upon all agricultural questions. There certainly was one of them in the gallery (Sir John Tyrell), of whose presence they had had a most unequivocal indication. He was sorry to be obliged to allude to that hon. Gentleman in his absence, and also that he was compelled to bring forward his Motion, notwithstanding the paucity of his usual opponents. The notion of there being peculiar burdens on land was now the last of the agricultural fallacies. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, in his speech the other night, had proved that wages had risen as the price of bread had fallen; he had shown that cheap bread did not produce cheap wages; and he had also told his agricultural friends pretty distinctly, that employment did not depend on the home market. The hon. Baronet had, in
 1395 "I admire the hon. Member for his zeal and his industry; and, differing, as I do from that hon. Gentleman on political questions, I do say that he has rendered great services to the country. I am a political opponent of that hon. Gentleman, who never gave me a vote in his life; but I am only anticipating the judgment of a grateful posterity when I say that, actuated by high, pure, patriotic, disinterested motives, he has rendered important services to the country." "Land is a species of property that cannot be concealed; it is visible to every one; and the fair presumption consequently is, that it will be more heavily taxed than the capital of the manufacturer or merchant, which it is frequently very difficult to trace." 1396 Morning Post "Nine hundred selected representatives of the agriculturists of Great Britain, at great personal expense and inconvenience, met to record their unqualified condemnation of the free trade tendency of modern legislation, and their firm determination to permit no Minister to infringe one iota of the small fraction of protection still left to them." "The speeches were pregnant with matter," and spoke of "facts and arguments of the most irresistible character; no tameness, no hesitation, no paltering—a glorious combination of all that is great and good against all that is insidious, and factious, and detestable." "A Parliament, which he was ashamed to call agricultural, had passed three fatal measures—the Corn Law, the Canada Corn Bill, and the Tariff—and for this sacrifice on their part there had been no gain to compensate it, no removal of burdens." "All classes taken in detail by the Tariff, and all injured." "If they combined to make an attack upon that abominable measure, they would do much
 1397 l. "appealed to the agriculturists throughout the length and breadth of the land, whether their interests had not been spurned and despised by the very Ministers whom they had raised to power. They might say with the eagle, killed by the shaft feathered from his own wing— 'Keen are our pangs, but keener far to feel We nursed the pinion that impelled the steel.' There was no difference between Sir Robert Peel and Mr. Cobden, or rather the only difference was this—that the one was an important foe, the other all powerful for mischief." 1398 "The only object of the agriculturists was to secure that protection which every other trade enjoyed in proportion to the peculiar burdens of taxation which they had to bear." "That there were only 3,700 beasts imported, being but one week's supply for London, and 227,000 quarters of Canada corn." "When it was understood that the Ministers had a surplus, and intended to remit a portion of the existing burdens of the country, he (Mr. Ryder) and others looked carefully over the list of those burdens, and he confessed that they could not lay their fingers upon one which specifically bore upon the agricultural interests; at, least there was but one—the Malt Tax—and that it was clearly impossible for the Minister to abandon." 1399 1400 1. "You are entitled to put such a duty on foreign corn as is equivalent to the special burdens which you impose upon agriculture. 2. But an additional protection to agriculture can be vindicated only on the ground that it is for the interest of the country in general." "As far as my recollection serves me, not one good measure has passed since the entrance into office of the present Administration. The  amor patriæ amor sui 1401 l.; l.; l.; l.; l.; l. l. 
 
 REAL PROPERTY—ENGLAND AND SCOTLAND—ANNUAL VALUE. 
 £. s. d. 
 Land — England and Wales 40,167,088 5 7½ 
 Scotland 5,586,527 13 3 
 £45,753,615 18 10½ 
 Tithes 1,960,330 0 0 
 Manors 152,216 0 0 
 Total land £47,866,161 18 10½ 
 
 OTHER PROPERTY. 
 England and Scotland—Houses, factories, wharfs, business premises, &c. 38,475,738 0 0 
 Quarries 240,483 0 0 
 Mines 2,081,387 0 0 
 Iron Works 559,435 0 0 
 Fisheries 58,114 0 0 
 Canals 1,307,923 0 0 
 Railways 2,598,942 0 0 
 Other Property 1,776,296 0 0 
 Total Annual Value £47,098,288 0 0 M'Culloch stated in his last work on "Taxation" that Schedule A having produced 2,150,412 l. s. d., d. l., l., l.; Schedule A—Net duty received April 5, 1843, £2,150,412 10 9. 
 
 Land one half 1,025,206 5 4½ 
 Add Schedule B — Tenants' profits 298,763 0 0 
 Total paid by land £1,323,969 5 4½ 1402 
 
 Net duty received under Schedule D. April 5, 1843—Trades and professions 1,466,985 9 8 
 Under Schedules A and B — Land 1,323,969 5 4¼ 
 £143,016 4 3¼ l. "There is no doubt that the yearly produce of the rateable property of England has undergone a very great increase since 1813; and that its annual progress is now rapid. The total annual value of real property assessed to the Property Tax in 1815 in England and Wales, was 51,898,423 l., l. "Exclusive of tithe, the land is burdened with an extra weight of other taxes. Poor rates and county rates of all descriptions have always fallen much heavier on it than on any other species of fixed property; and, though within the last few years some of the more striking anomalies in their assessment have been removed, they still continue to press with disproportioned severity on the land. Moneyed fortunes also, and funded and other moveable
 1403 l. s. s. 1404 l., l. s., l. s. d. l. s. l. s. d.; l. s. d. d. d. l. l. s. d., l. s. d.; l. s. d. l. l. s.; l. l. s. l. l. l. l. 1405 l. s. d. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1406 l., l. l. l. 1407 l. s. l. s. d. l. l. l. l. l.; l. s. 1408 l., l. l., l., l. l., 1409 1410 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire whether there are any peculiar burthens specially affecting the Landed Interest of this Country, or any peculiar exemptions enjoyed by that Interest, and to ascertain their nature and extent."
 Sir J. C. Hobhouse : I trust that the great anxiety which I feel for the success of this Motion, and the official connexion formerly subsisting between Sir Henry Pottinger and myself, when President of the Board of Control, may be a valid excuse for my speaking after the Mover and Seconder, without waiting to hear what may be said by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, in reply to the proposal made by the hon. Member for Montrose. And I must beg to premise, that I do not understand why my hon. Friend has anticipated, as a matter of certainty, that it is the intention of Government to oppose him on this occasion; for my part, I see no reason to come to such a conclusion; and I, for one, do not intend in the least to reproach the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Treasury, on account of his having allowed this proposition to be made by an independent Member of Parliament, instead of originating it himself. On ordinary occasions, indeed, the Ministers of the Crown are expected to make proposals of this nature; and if they do not make them, it is presumed they have some objection which would induce them to give a negative to them, if brought forward by others. But I can easily conceive a case in which the Minister may fairly wait to see what is the feeling of the House of Commons, before he considers himself justified in making a demand upon the national purse. Such I take the present case to be; and what I hope and believe is, that the Minister is only waiting for a decided expression of our opinion, in order to recommend to Her Majesty a compliance with the view taken by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), in regard to the suitable mode of rewarding the services of Sir Henry Pottinger. I do not pretend to be acquainted with precedents sufficiently to enable me to state the exact position in which the House of Commons now stands, in regard to the granting of such pensions. I would rather treat this as an extraordinary case,
 1382 1383 1384 1385 "I have for three years been in constant correspondence with Sir Henry Pottinger, and it is no more than truth to declare that I think no mail ever arrived from China without bringing to me fresh reasons to be deeply sensible of his merits, and his just claims to the gratitude of his country. You may readily imagine, that in a country like China, so distant, so different in almost every respect from those of which we have any knowledge, with every desire on the part of the Government at
 1386 "The manufactures of our city—the trade of our port—our intercourse with the East, have been much extended in consequence of his efforts; and although we cannot thank him in the high-flown language of the natives of the oriental regions where he has resided so long, we can thank him with great sincerity and cordiality of feeling, and tell him in the plain honest language of British merchants that he has done us good, and we are grateful for it."
 Sir R. Peel  said, the speech of the right hon. Gentleman was a conclusive answer to that of the hon. Mover. It might have been inferred from the speech of the hon. Gentleman, and from his unjust and uncalled-for observations, that there was a disposition on the part of Her Majesty's Government to underrate the exertions and the merits of Sir Henry Pottinger. The House, however, would recollect that there had not been an opportunity afforded in that House on which he had not freely admitted those exertions and merits. He
 1387 l. Hume: 1388 1389 1390 l. l. l. 1391
 Viscount Palmerston  could not allow the discussion to terminate without stating his great satisfaction with the determination at which the right hon. Baronet had arrived. That determination was as honourable to Ministers, as it must be gratifying to the gallant Officer. He, too, acquitted them of any backwardness in originating the proposition for a pension. He admitted the force of the observations of the right hon. Baronet; the result must be even more satisfactory to the gallant officer, his hon. friend, than if the subject had not been made a matter of discussion; the reward would thus appear, not merely the gift of the Crown, but the suggestion of the Representatives of the Commons of England. He apprehended that no inconvenient risk would be incurred by the establishment of this precedent; for the case stood on strong, but purely exceptional grounds. The concession would come within the spirit and principle of the Statute, though it might not fall within its strict and technical letter. If Sir H. Pottinger had resided only for a few years longer as our Minister to China, no difficulty could have arisen; and the short ness of his services was the only objection to the just reward of them. The truth was, that he had performed great public services in a briefer period than was contemplated by the Act. As to other cases of unknown merits and obscure claims which deserved, but did not obtain, a pecuniary acknowledgment, it might be observed, that rewards were not bestowed so much on the principle of personal desert, as on that of the amount of public benefit conferred. Two stipulations made by Sir H. Pottinger with the noble Earl at the head of Foreign Affairs had been alluded to; but to him Sir H. Pottinger had proposed a third, with which, as the reasons for it were too apparent, he could not refuse to comply: it was, that as he had just returned from India on account of ill health, and as he much feared it might still farther suffer from his new duties, he should not be asked to remain on the Chinese
 1393
 Viscount Sandon  seconded the Resolution. After passing a glowing eulogium upon the civil and military services of Sir H. Pottinger, the noble Lord, admitting the difficulty of dealing with Motions of this description, declared himself prepared in
 1381
 Captain Berkeley  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether, having rewarded our Plenipotentiary and many of the officers engaged in the Chinese war for the services which they there had rendered, it was the intention of the Government to withhold the prize money from the common soldiers, sailors, and marines, contrary to the invariable custom on such occasions; and whether the same course was to be pursued with Sir Charles Napier's army in Scinde?
 Mr. H. J. Baillie  said, that he should not have ventured to address the House, had it not been for the observations which had fallen from the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets. The hon. Member seemed to suppose that the existence of the small note paper currency of Scotland, was in some way or other injurious to England; and he thus lent the authority and sanction of his name to that absurd cry which had frequently been raised, viz., why should Scotland be allowed to enjoy a privilege which had already been denied to England? In answer to that he would ask, why should Scotland not be allowed to enjoy this privilege, if it could be enjoyed without injury or detriment to England? But if the hon. Baronet the Member for the Tower Hamlets could show the House that the existence of this privilege in Scotland was injurious or detrimental to England, he, for one, would at once give up the question, and offer no further opposition to an assimilation of the currency of the two countries. But the fact was, that the question rested on totally different grounds as respected England and Scotland; and it was to that point that he wished to direct the attention of the hon. Baronet the Member for the Tower Hamlets and of the House. The people of England found by experience in 1825, that the system of banking which
 159 l. l., l. l. l. 160 l.
 Lord Worsley  expressed his opinion that a good deal of delay and inconvenience had been occasioned by the mode in which some of the lines had been grouped. He knew that his own county had suffered much inconvenience from the circumstance that lines running east and west through Lincolnshire into the manufacturing districts had been grouped with the Cambridge and Lincoln, the London and
 136
 Mr. Bouverie  observed, that the Bill for the regulation of the banking system had given satisfaction in this country, because it was felt to be required by the circumstances of our monetary system in England; but the case was different with respect to Scotland, where no such regulations were, in the public opinion, required, and no similar inconveniences and losses had been sustained by the system of banking adopted in Scotland. It could not be a matter, therefore, of surprise that the project of the right hon. Baronet, if applied to Scotland, should be met by decided opposition. They had introduced a new theory, and an experiment, in respect to the monetary affairs of this country; and they might yet learn to their cost, as the United States of America had unfortunately done, that the interference of the Legislature in matters of trade and commerce was not always productive of the beneficial results calculated upon by the promoters of that interference. The system, as far it had been
 170
 Mr. F. Maule  moved the Second Reading of the Fresh Water Fishing Bill.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that the noble Lord had assumed as a recognised fact, that the opponents alone of the different Railway Bills were the causes of the delay in their progress before the Committees. Such was not the case. He had observed frequent instances in which the mass of superabundant evidence brought forward by the agents for the Bills had caused the
 133
 Lord J. Manners  wished to ask a question of the right hon. Gentleman at the head of Her Majesty's Government in reference to Don Carlos. When he put a similar question last year, it was stated that as long as Don Carlos maintained his pretensions to the Spanish crown, the British Government would not interfere. But Don Carlos having waved his right to the crown, he wished to know whether the English Government were prepared to make any representation to the Government of France to promote the release of that illustrious individual?
 Mr. Bannerman  moved the Amendment of which he had given notice, that the words—
 "Said period of one year preceding the 1st day of May, 1845," be omitted, and to substitute the following words, "period of four weeks immediately preceding the 7th day of December, 1844."
 Mr. Hawes  must again express his entire disapproval of this measure. No proof whatever had been offered that the banks of Scotland required any such restriction or regulation as that proposed in the pre-
 150 151 l., l. l., l. l. l., l.; l. l.; l.; l. 152 l., l, l. l. R. Peel: 153 s. s. d., s. d. 154 l.; l., 155 l. l. l. l. l., s. s. 156 157 l. l. 158
 Mr. B. Escott  wished to put a question to the noble Lord the Secretary of the Board of Control. Since he (Mr. Escott) put the question to the hon. Member for Beverley (Mr. Hogg) upon the same subject, he had received information which went to prove the hardship of the case of Lieutenant Hollis. The case of that injured man, in one word was this—that he had been illegally dismissed from the service of the East India Company. The Court of Directors did not deny that he had been illegally dismissed. They admitted it, and they gave him a small pension in consideration of it—a pension, however, altogether insufficient for him to live upon. But while doing this, they refused to enter into a full inquiry into the case, or to restore him to his situation in the East India service. If this were the case of a great and wealthy man, he (Mr. Escott) should say nothing of it in that House, for if the East India Company chose to dismiss any of their great public servants, and if those great public servants chose to concur in their own dismissal, and thus become, in some degree, assenting parties to their own degradation, that was a matter with which he should have no concern; but in the case of an humble and unprotected individual, without influence or friends, when such a person was summarily dismised by that powerful body, the East India Company, for no reason whatever, then he (Mr. Escott) would maintain that this House, or some other competent authority, were bound to step in and teach the East India Company that they were not to trifle with the rights and privileges of Her Majesty's subjects. The question he wished to ask the noble Lord was, whether the Board of Control had taken care to inquire into the case of Lieutenant Hollis?
 Mr. C. Wood  said, he had not intended to address any observations to the House before going into Committee on the Bill, for the success of which he felt sincerely anxious; but after the objections which his hon. Friend had made to the principle of the Bill, he could not avoid offering some remarks on the subject of these objections. The hon. Gentleman commenced his speech by referring to the experience in the past year—of the effects of the Bill which had been made law in the last Session of Parliament. He (Mr. Wood)
 161 162 l. l. s. d. 163 "As a general principle, I am quite free to admit that the increase or decrease of a circulation of bank notes, from whatever cause it may proceed, ought to correspond with the increase or decrease which a currency of metallic coin would exhibit under the same circumstances." 164 l., l., l,, l. 165 l. l., l., 166 l. l. l. l., l., 167 l. "The Scotch banks are banks of great credit and property; but whenever a demand arises
 168 "In 1825, there were extensive demands made by the country bankers on the Bank—gold coin was sent out to every country town in the kingdom?—I believe so. Did not the banks in Scotland equally fall upon the Bank of England at the same time?—Certainly." l. 169
 Mr. Ross  said, the Irish bankers had not
 173
 Mr. Muntz  said that, differing widely, as he was known to do, from the right hon. Baronet with reference to the currency of the country, he confessed he was surprised that the right hon. Baronet, having determined upon the principle which ought to regulate the monetary system of the country, did not carry out that principle further. The principle of the measure was a fixed standard with a bank note payable in coin upon demand. It was an anomaly, certainly, to find the 1 l. l. l. 171
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that those who had attended to the causes of the Chinese war, and to the manner in which it had been undertaken, would know that there was no declaration of war and no prize act in that case, and that the property taken was consequently used as a fund for compensating British residents who had suffered losses in consequence of the war, and for compensating the Government for what they had done; strictly speaking, therefore, there could be no prize money. When Sir H. Pottinger
 138 l. l. l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that though Gentlemen acquainted with the Excise law and its different bearings must be aware how difficult it was to answer questions upon its several provisions, yet he should endeavour to explain as clearly as he could the nature of this case. The practice of introducing spirits from Jersey was of very recent growth, and was commenced by a gentleman who established a manufactory in Jersey. Under this Customs' law, spirits manufactured from materials the growth of this country were admitted into this country upon paying the Excise duty; and in the case of plain spirits, no difficulty existed in the Excise giving permits on the admission of those spirits into the dealers' stocks; but the Customs' law specifically described that compound spirits, in addition to the duty levied by the Cus-
 137 mandamus mandamus,
 Mr. Labouchere  wished to put a question, of which he had given notice, to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, which was of great importance to the inhabitants of the Channel Islands. He understood that it had been, for some time past, the habit of persons in those islands to manufacture spirits of materials of British growth, and to import them into this country by paying the Excise duty only. That had been stopped of late by the right hon. Gentleman. A Report of the States of Jersey, who appeared to have carefully considered the matter, had been sent to him, and they declared that every means had been taken to discover whether or not fraud had been used in the manufacture of those spirits; and they believed that none had been committed, but that the spirit was manufactured from materials of British growth, and that the inhabitants had, therefore, the right to import it upon paying the Excise duty. He wished to know of the right hon. Gentleman, if this statement were correct, why the delivery of those spirits into the dealers' stocks in this country had been prohibited?
 Mr. Labouchere  said, as there did not appear to be any very material difference between the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Board of Trade and himself, he did not feel inclined, particularly after the speech of the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury, to resist the Government proposition. He thought that the object which he had in view would be gained by the Government proposition, and he would therefore withdraw his Motion. With regard, however, to the appointment of a Committee, he must say, that his experience of Railway Committees of that House induced him to request the Government to consider, whether a well-digested scheme brought forward by them upon their own responsibility would not be much more likely to prove satisfactory than anything that could result from a Committee.
 Mr. Labouchere  rose, in pursuance of the notice he had given on the subject, of the best course to be pursued by Government in relation to the amount of railway business before the Legislature. He sincerely regretted that the task had been left to him; for he still retained the opinion he had expressed a few evenings ago, that it would be far better if the question were left in the hands of Her Majesty's Ministers. Having, however, thought it to be his duty to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Board of Trade to the subject, and having urged on his notice the propriety of considering the state of Railway Bills, and of bringing in some measure on the subject, and having received an answer from that right hon. Gentleman, that it would be advisable to postpone the subject for a month or six weeks, and that until that period had elapsed, Government would not be prepared to recommend any course on the subject, he had determined to press the question on the consideration of the House. He entertained a strong opinion that the House would not be doing its duty if it did not, without further delay, adopt some measure in reference to this subject. The right hon. Gentleman's argument that delay would be of advantage, in his opinion would be found to operate in a contrary direction; for he believed that a great deal of unnecessary delay and expense now entailed on Railway Bills before that House could only be put an end to by some immediate measure. Having, since the time he had last addressed the House on the subject, held communication with some hon. Members, and with Gentlemen interested in railway matters, he had fully ascertained it was the prevalent opinion that the measures he recommended some days ago would, if they became law, have a salutary effect in checking that delay now which Railway Bills encountered. The state of the railway business before the Legislature was so notorious, and so well known to the majority of the Members of that House, that it was hardly necessary for him to call the attention of hon. Members to the fact. Out of 243 Railway Bills introduced this Session, there were 140 now in Committee still undisposed of. This number of 140 was ranged in twenty-four groups, so that only 103 Bills had hitherto been disposed of in Committee, and reported upon; leaving
 128 l. 129 130 "That, inasmuch as, from the unusual number of Railway Bills which have been introduced into this House during the present Session of Parliament, and also from the delay which has been occasioned in the consideration of them, in consequence of the reference of the Reports of the Railway Department of the Board of Trade to the Committees on these Bills, it may be impossible for many of them which shall have been reported to this House to be passed into laws during the present Session, this House will adopt such measure in the next Session as may appear best calculated to prevent the parties promoting such Bills from being subjected to any unnecessary expense or delay. "That a Select Committee be appointed to consider in what manner it may be expedient to carry this Resolution into effect."
 Mr. J. Oswald  said the people of Scotland were of opinion that the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) would have acted wisely in abstaining from any interference with their system of banking. They well knew, however, when the right hon. Baronet interfered with monetary affairs in England, that his measures would not slop there. He did not wish to oppose the Motion for going into Committee, but he would reserve the case of the Scotch bankers until the House was in Committee.
 Mr. Dennistoun  said, that he did not understand the hon. Member for Montrose to have made any charge of a breach of faith on the part of the right hon. Baronet; but when the right hon. Baronet stated the nature of his plan, he intimated that the actual circulation of Scotland should be maintained, and that so long as the banks there did not raise the amount of their issues they should not be compelled to hold specie against the notes in circulation. But what did the right hon. Baronet now say? If he would tell him that, without being under the necessity of keeping gold in their coffers, the Scotch banks would still enjoy the average circulation of the present period, he should be perfectly satisfied.
 Mr. Dennistoun : Suppose the issue in one month was to amount to 330,000 l.,
 Mr. Dennistoun  said, that the difference between the circulation in Scotland at the periods referred to by the right hon. Baronet was as 3,000,000 l, l.,
 Mr. Dennistoun  moved to leave out the words "head office or principal place of issue of such banker;" so as not to confine the bankers' issues by the amount of coin exclusively at his head office. It was understood at the meeting of the Scotch bankers with the right hon. Baronet, that the limitation which his Amendment went to remove was not to be pressed.
 Mr. W. Patten  suggested, that whether the Government or a Committee undertook the subject, whatever was done should be done in the present Session. The existing delay had not so much arisen from the parties concerned as from that House itself, which spent about six weeks at the beginning of the Session in laying down rules for the conduct of private business. It was, he thought, of the greatest importance that the measure should be prepared this Session, that every one might know what course they should have to pursue next Session. It was known that 100 new Bills were ready to be introduced next Session, and unless some measure were prepared now they would be in the same difficulty next Session as at present.
 Mr. Hume  said, there was nothing in this Bill binding the House to one bank of issue, and the discussion ought to be confined to what the Bill really stated. It was an absurd and obsolete doctrine that banks could issue notes as they pleased; it could not be done profitably; the paper would come in again directly, if sent out. When banking was free in Scotland (as it was before the right hon. Baronet interfered with it), there could not be an amount of paper issued for any period exceeding a few days beyond what the commerce of the country required, especially with the exchanges twice a week. But, owing to the peculiarities of that country, an increase took place at certain periods, when notes went into the Highlands to buy cattle; and Scotland would be injured if that expansion could not take place at certain times; the year's average would not meet this. The right hon. Baronet had stated that he would not deprive Scotland of her present circulation, but would only adopt the regulations necessary to prevent excess; but, unless the measure were modified to allow of an expansion of the circulation in October, the right hon. Baronet would be doing what he had promised not to do, and the banks would not be able to issue what they had been issuing hitherto. Subject to this remark, he (Mr. Hume) agreed that the currency of Scotland was adequate. Another defect in the Bill was in
 149 J. Graham:
 Mr. Hume  said, that he might turn the tables on the right hon. Baronet, and ask him how often he had followed the advice which he had given him from that side of the House? He would take the right hon. Baronet's observations as a joke.
 Mr. Hume  contended that the right hon. Baronet interfered with a system which had been entirely free previous to his interference; and that he had interfered with it in direct violation of the pledges which he had given to the House. He believed that, although the transactions of business in Scotland increased daily, there would be a smaller amount of currency required to conduct those opera-
 174
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  explained, that he did not hold the opinion that a bank was entitled to issue paper commensurate with its paid-up capital, but that such a capital was one element for consideration in the claim of a bank to extend its issue.
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  rose to oppose the progress of this measure. He knew of no adequate reason why Her Majesty's Government should have ventured to touch the present system of banking in Scotland, which was acknowledged to be one of the best, not to say perfect, establishments of the kind that existed. But this was no new attack on the monetary system of Scotland; and, although coming, as it did, before them, recommended by its merely negative character, it assumed not quite so dangerous an aspect as a more direct measure might have assumed: still its tendency was such as to make it the duty of every one connected with Scotland to express their opinion upon it; and if that opinion should be in accordance with the opinion of the people of Scotland, he was certain that it would be for the entire rejection of this measure. The system of Scottish banking had been supported by the opinions of the
 141 142 "From Maiden Kirk to John o'Groats, We all prefer the one pund notes." l. l.; l. l., 143 l., l. "Since (said Sir James Graham) we must have a free trade in corn, let us also have a free trade in money, and destroy that fatal connexion between the Government and the single chartered bank which facilitates the prodigality of Ministers, and invests an irresponsible body with the most delicate and important functions of State, the control of the circulating medium." Corn and Currency,
 Mr. F. T. Baring  said, that as the only object in view on both sides was to do justice to the parties interested in Railway Bills, the intention of the right hon. Baronet's Amendment could not, for a moment, be called into question, except in so far as to whether it accomplished the object in view. He thought the Committee might with great advantage commence its labours immediately, and report from time to time its decisions upon the cases as they came before it, without delaying until the inquiry and Report were completed together. He thought also the Government ought to endeavour to save the time now consumed in the Committees on the Railway Bills, by framing some regulations under which the evidence  pro con, 135
 Mr. F. T. Baring  asked, did the right hon. Gentleman imagine that he and those with whom he generally acted would have agreed to the Bill relative to banking passed last year, if they had not reckoned upon the principle of restriction of issues being carried out with respect to other monopolies, more particularly the bankers of Ireland and Scotland? He admitted the value of the principle upon which the Bill of last year on this subject was founded; but he was not prepared to acquiesce in the attempted inference of the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department, that a very large portion of the beneficial changes we were now enjoying, were the fruits of its adoption into our monetary system. Though disposed to give credit to the Scotch for the prudent sagacity they had displayed in the general conduct of their banking affairs, he was not inclined to leave to themselves the conduct of the whole monetary affairs of that country, liable, as they must be, to great changes, occasional pressure, and inconvenience. From Returns furnished to the House, the House might discover that the Scotch bankers had not always
 172 l. l.,
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that when the subject of railway legislation was brought before the House some days ago, he had replied to the right hon. Gentleman opposite, in answer to his inquiry, whether be was prepared to propose anything relative to the matter to the House, that the Government had certainly turned its attention to the question, on account of the enormous mass of railway legislation, but that he was not then prepared to call upon the House to come to any specific Resolution respecting that branch of private business; and he still thought that there existed very strong objections to any Resolution pledging the House to adopt any particular line of conduct in regard to Railway Bills. The House must consider with respect to the Resolution of the right hon. Gentleman, that they were thereby called upon to adopt a course for which no precedent whatever existed. Instead, therefore, of pledging the House to any Resolution such as that proposed, he should, looking at the extreme difficulty which such a course would involve hereafter, infinitely prefer the whole subject to be referred to an investigation before a Select Committee of the House, by whom the progress actually made in the different Railway Bills, and the position in which they stood, should be examined and reported upon with a
 131 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the state and progress of the several Railway Bills now before Parliament, and to consider and report their opinion as to what measures should be adopted by the House, in order to facilitate their re-introduction, and to prevent expense and delay in the progress through Parliament, in the next Session, of such Railway Bills as it may be found impossible to pass into laws from want of time for their proper investigation during the present Session." 132
 Sir G. Grey  said, that the Resolution of his right hon. Friend had been before the House for a considerable period; and every one had an opportunity of making himself acquainted with its purport. The Amendment of the right hon. Baronet had only that instant come to their knowledge, and yet they were called upon to decide immediately in favour of it, although they had not had an opportunity of weighing well its purport. The time was come, he admitted, at which the parties to Railway Bills ought, in justice, to know what the intentions of the House with respect to that branch of legislation were. The Amendment proposed by the right hon. Baronet, merely went the length of saying that it was expedient to inquire what ought to be done. He could not accept such a proposal in lieu of the Resolution of his right hon. Friend. If the right hon. Baronet would give a pledge on the part of the Government that something should be done to obviate delay and expense to the parties who might be shown to merit such consideration; and if he would state that the business of the proposed Committee would be to inquire who the parties were that should be considered to be so entitled to future indulgence, then he should be satisfied, and should admit that to be a just and proper course. He suggested, that the words "should have been reported" be left out of the Resolution, and the words "wherein due diligence has been used," should be inserted instead.
 Mr. Hogg  said, that the Court of Directors had made no such admission as was alleged, as to the illegality of Lieutenant Hollis's dismissal. What he on
 140
 Sir R. Peel  said, he had to slate, since the noble Lord had given notice of his intention to ask his question, a communication had been received from the French Government by the British Government, in which an official announcement had been made of the resignation of Don Carlos in favour of his son, and that Don Carlos had made an application for a passport to enable him to leave the place where he at present resided, which he had found prejudicial to his own health and that of his family, and retire to the neighbourhood of the Pyrenees. The French Government had intimated that this re-
 139
 Sir R. Peel : I hope the hon. Gentleman will allow us to go into Committee with this measure. A late period has arrived, the 5th of June, and as it is of great importance that some progress
 144 res integra, 145 Stewart: 146 Stewart; 147 Stewart: bonâ fide 148
 Sir R. Peel  said, that as the evils of all great towns partook so very much of the same character, he hoped that it would be possible to pass a measure on the subject relating to the health of towns generally, which might be made to extend to Ireland, without the necessity of going through any preliminary inquiry in that country.
 Sir R. Peel  had understood the hon. Member to express a hope that the three banks in Scotland would be allowed to have a currency more nearly based upon their immense paid-up capital.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had proposed for the adoption of the House a most uncommon Resolution, namely, that the House should give an assurance to certain parties interested in railway projects that their Bills, if reported upon within a certain time, should have certain advantages during the next Session. He could not assent to such a proposition; but he did think that the House was called upon to do something in the matter. He was not
 134
 Sir R. Peel  thought it would be better to appoint a Committee of the most active Chairmen of the present Committees, who should, if possible, lay down some rules in the course of the present Session for the guidance of parties concerned in railway business.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he was very sorry that it was out of his power to accede to the proposition of the hon. Member. If he had substituted thirteen months instead of four, the case might have been wholly different; but he had taken the maximum instead of the average as a criterion. The object of an arrangement such as this, should be to enable bankers to make provision for an increased issue without providing an additional quantity of gold; and that arrangement, he thought, would give all the advantages which the hon. Member opposite seemed to require. He repeated his regret that he could not accede to the Motion; for he could discover no reason to induce him to depart from the principles which he had laid down with respect both to the banking system of Ireland and Scotland.
 Sir R. Peel : There never was, Mr. Greene, a more unfounded assertion than that that which the hon. Member for Montrose has made, in stating that I have broken faith with those who are interested in this Bill, and have proposed alterations in it which render it different from the measure, the principal features of which I originally stated to the House. I am able to show that the hon. Member is not more correct in his assertions upon this point than he sometimes is with respect to other matters. I shall only notice that part of the hon. Member's observations which refer to my not having kept faith with the Scotch bankers in relation to this Bill. The language which I made use of in bringing forward the subject was the following:—
 "I propose, then, both in Scotland and Ireland, to ascertain the average amount of the issues of each bank for a definite past period. I propose to permit the continuance of that amount of circulation, without any restriction whatever; to apply there the principle which was applied to the English banks. You demanded from them no deposit of security; you demanded from them no tenure of gold. You permitted them, without inquiry and without restraint, to issue the permitted amount, only taking security that the remainder should be issued in gold. I propose to apply the same principle to Scotland and Ireland. The question then arises, what is the period to which the average shall be limited? I propose, in the case both of Ireland and of Scotland, to ascertain the average from the period which has elapsed since the announcement of the measure of last year, that is, from the 27th of April last. That will be a period of thirteen lunar months. The variation is very great in Scotland at different periods of the year. In May and in November the amount of the issues exceeds the amount of the issues at other periods. I believe that, so far as Scotland is concerned, it would be a matter of very great indifference whether you founded your average upon a review of two years, of one year, or of six months. Whether you took in two periods of extraordinary issue, or whether you took in one, in the one case taking twelve and in the other six months, the amount of the circulation would in each case be nearly the same." 175 l.; l. l., l.,
 Sir R. Peel : The banks can issue to the amount of 300,000 l. l., l.
 Sir R. Peel : The average circulation of the Scotch banks for the last year, consisting of thirteen lunar months, is estimated, as I have already stated, at 3,061,000 l. l. l., 176
 Sir R. Peel  could not agree to the Motion
 Sir R. Peel  said, that he had been thirty-five years in Parliament, and he never recollected a Session without a Bill for the Amendment of the Grand Jury Laws of Ireland, or the Salmon Fisheries in Scotland.
 Sir W. Clay  understood that the circulation of Scotland was 3,000,000 l., l.; l. l.
 Viscount Clements  said, that a very valuable Report had been made by the Commissioners of Inquiry into the State of Large Towns and Populous Districts in England. The right hon. Baronet must be aware that the towns in Ireland were increasing, as well as the population, and that the habitations of the bulk of the people were of the worst possible description. He, therefore, begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman (Sir R. Peel) whether there would be any objection to extend that Commission of Inquiry?
 Viscount Howick  could not think that the right hon. Baronet's Amendment would meet the object which it was desired to effect. If the Resolution of his right hon. Friend near him was too narrow in its terms, there would be no difficulty in enlarging it. His right hon. Friend had stated truly that it was desirable to give the parties promoting Railway Bills some guarantee on the part of the House, that those Bills which had received the sanction of the Committees, and had been reported to the House, should come forward again next Session without any fresh expense and without any loss of time; for, if the contending parties were made aware of the fact that the lateness of the period at which Railway Bills were reported to the House would be no bar to their being placed in the same position in the next Session in which they were when the House was prorogued, that would have the effect of stopping at once that vexatious opposition which was at present raised in the hope of defeating those projects, by delaying the reports on them. But the Amendment of the right hon. Baronet gave no such pledge to the parties, and consequently it did not answer the object which it was desirable to effect. If the right hon. Baronet were to withdraw his Amendment as far as the first Resolution was concerned, and suffer that to pass, the right hon. Baronet's Amendment might be appended to his right hon. Friend's second Resolution with excellent effect. He understood the right hon. Baronet to state that he did not object to the first Resolution; and therefore there was no difficulty in adopting the course he suggested.
 Viscount Jocelyn  said, that the decision respecting the case of the dismissal of Lieutenant Hollis had been before the Board of Control, and they concurred in the sentiments of the Board of Directors; but the hon. Gentleman should be aware that the Board of Control had no power to interfere in the matter.
 Mr. F. Maule  was glad to hear the right hon. Baronet declare it to be his opinion and the opinion of the Government, that the time was come when this subject could be no longer neglected. He had listened with extreme interest to the speech of the noble Lord, characterized as it was by those deep feelings of humanity which had marked the whole course of his policy in that House, and established for him the reputation of desiring to legislate, not upon the ground of mere party interest, but upon the broad basis of humanity and Christian feeling. He entirely concurred in all the principles which the noble Lord had laid
 201
 Lord Ashley , in rising to bring forward the two Bills of which he had given notice, said: My Motion requires some preliminary explanation. By the two Bills I intend to effect the repeal of many existing Acts respecting the treatment of Lunatics, and substitute such other enactments in their place, as time and circumstances have rendered necessary. Before entering into the general principle of my Motion, I wish to observe that my proposition will apply only to England and Wales. I wish that circumstances enabled me to extend the Bills to Ireland and Scotland; for I believe that not in any country in Europe, nor in any part of America, is there any place in which pauper lunatics are in such a suffering and degraded state as those in Her Majesty's kingdom of Scotland. I assume in the first place, that the House, or at least a considerable portion of those hon. Members who may honour me with their attention, have read the Report of the Commissioners in Lunacy made in the last Session of Parliament; and I will also assume that it is unnecessary for me to repeat the statement which I made in the course of last year on the subject which I now seek to bring under your notice. You will allow it, perhaps, to form a part of my present speech. It is ne-
 181 182 183 184 "There were thirty insane persons, of whom three males and nine females were dangerous lunatics, in the strict sense of the word, and most unfit inmates of the place; and where, as we were informed, they had been long detained, in spite of the remonstrances of the visiting surgeon and some of the magistrates. In the parish workhouse at Birmingham, there were seventy-one insane persons, subject to insanity in various forms, several of them being epileptics, liable, after their paroxysms of epilepsy, to fits of raving madness, during which they were usually excessively violent and furiously maniacal." "The straw in the paupers' beds was found filthy, and some of the bedding was in a disgusting condition from running sores, and was of the worst materials, and insufficient; two cells in which three sick epileptic paupers slept were damp, unhealthy, and unfit for habitation; the beds of some of the private patients were in an equally bad state; nearly all the provisions of the law for the regulation of licensed asylums were violated… The magistrates of the borough, who are its visiting justices, had not visited the house for the space of a year minus eight days. … In 1843 it was again in a very bad state; the paupers were still occupying what had been the coachhouse and stables; the rooms were low, comfortless, and ill-ventilated, and one of the apartments most offensive. It has been visited within the last six weeks of the present year; the Commissioners report that the condition of the private patients was improved, but that of the paupers was so bad that another communication must be made by the Board to the magistrates of the borough." 185 "We went to the cottage between eight and nine o'clock in the evening, accompanied, at our request, by Dr. Lloyd Williams, who interpreted to us the answers given to questions put through him. In a dark and offensive room over a blacksmith's forge, upon opening a bolted door, we discovered the miserable object of our search. The only window was closed up by boards, between which little air could find admission, and only a feeble glimmering of light. In the middle of this loathsome chamber was Mary Jones, the lunatic, on a foul pallet of chaff or straw; and here she had been confined for a period of fifteen years and upwards. She was seated in a bent and crouching posture on her bed of nauseous and disgusting filth. Near to her person, and just within her reach, was a cup, into which she was accustomed to pass her excretions, which she emptied from time to time into a chamber utensil. This last vessel contained a quantity of feculent matter, the accumulation of several days. By her side were the remnants of some food of which she had partaken. Within a few feet of the pallet, which was on the floor, stood a large earthen jar, nearly full of fetid urine, the produce of the three other persons in the cottage. It had, as stated by the mother, been placed there in order that it might, from the warmth of the room, undergo a more speedy decom-
 186 "Thus long and close confinement had produced in Mary Jones's person the most frightful distortions. The chest bone protruded forwards five or six inches beyond its natural place, and there was an excoriation of the parts below. The legs were bent backwards, and the knee joints were fixed and immoveable. The ankles and feet were also greatly twisted and deformed. She was emaciated in the last degree; her pulse was feeble and quick; and her countenance, still pleasing, was piercingly anxious, and marked by an expression of despair. Her garments were loathsome, and from her person was emitted a most offensive odour. … For about ten years past she had been confined to the dismal chamber in which we found her, the window of which had been boarded during nearly the whole of that time." "We have the clearest evidence that if this poor creature had been properly treated in the first instance, she would have been completely cured." "August 14, 1844.—After I wrote to you yesterday I gave her ( i.e. 187 188 189 "This is a larger number of recoveries than has taken place in any year since the opening of the institution, and may be attributed to a greater number than formerly being admitted in the incipient stage of the disorder." 190 "Few things relating to the management and treatment of the insane are so well established as the necessity of their early treatment…… By examining the records of well-conducted asylums it appears that more than eight out of ten of the recent cases recover, while not more than one in six of the old cases are cured." l. l., l. l., l. l. 191 l. l.; l. l.: l. 192 l., l. l. l. l.; l. l. l. l., l., l. l. l. l.; .; l.; l. 193 l. s. d. l. s. l. l. "Every public or private institution," he writes, "has certain limits in which it must be restricted." He insists particularly "on schools, hospitals, and, more than all, penitent-
 194 "This institution, excellent as it is, warns mankind not to enlarge asylums beyond the limits which are traced by the moral and physical powers of the individual that has to guide and manage it." s. 195 "Humane English physicians daily contemplating helpless insane patients bound hand and foot, and neck, and waist, in illness, in pain, and in the agonies of death, without one single touch of compunction, or the slightest approach to a feeling of acting either cruelly or unwisely. They thought it impossible to manage insane people in any other way." "Pinel undertook what appeared to be the rash enterprise of liberating the dangerous lunatics of the Bicêtre. He made application to the commune for permission. Couthon offered to accompany him to the great bedlam of France. They were received by a confused noise; the yells and angry vociferations of 300 maniacs mixing their sounds with the echo of clanking chains and fetters, through the dark and dreary vaults of the prison. Couthon turned away with horror, but permitted the physician to incur the risk of his undertaking. He resolved to try his experiments by liberating fifty madmen, and began by unchaining twelve. The first was an English officer, who had been bound in his dungeon forty years, and whose history everybody had forgotten. His keepers approached him with dread; he had killed one of their comrades by a blow with his manacles. Pinel entered his cell unattended, and told him that he should be at liberty to walk at large, on the condition of his promising to put on the camisole or strait waistcoat. The maniac disbelieved him, but obeyed his directions mechanically. The chains of the miserable prisoner were removed; the door of his cell was left open. Many times he was seen to raise himself and fall backwards—his limbs gave way; they had been fettered during forty years. At length he was able to stand, and to stalk to the door of his dark cell, and gaze, with exclamations of wonder and delight, on the beautiful sky." 196 "He spent the day in walking to and fro, was no more confined, and during the remaining two years which he spent at Bicêtre, assisted in the management of the house. The next madman liberated was a soldier of the French guard, who had been in chains ten years, and was the object of general terror. His disorder had been kept up by cruelty and bad treatment. When liberated, he assisted Pinel in breaking the chains of his fellow-prisoners. He became immediately kind and attentive, and was ever after the devoted friend of his deliverer.….The result was beyond all hope. Tranquillity and harmony succeeded to tumult and disorder; even the most furious maniacs became tractable." 197 "Mens sana in corpore sano,"
 The Lord Advocate  had also heard the statement of the noble Lord with the greatest pleasure and satisfaction. It would, perhaps, be recollected, that when he had occasion to announce the measure which had been alluded to by the right hon. Baronet, he expressed his dissatisfaction at the present state of the law. He knew at that time that the present measures were contemplated by the noble Lord. He had since endeavoured, privately as well as publicly, to obtain correct information upon the subject as regarded Scotland. That very morning he had received notice of an intended deputation with reference to the question of establishing lunatic asylums, applicable to the northern counties of Scotland. He stated this in order to let the hon. Gentleman see that the question in connexion with Scotland had not been lost sight of.
 Mr. Brotherton  felt, that the noble Lord was entitled to the gratitude of the country for having brought these measures forward. In dealing with these details there were two points which he wished to impress upon the noble Lord and the Government. One was, the great importance of treating cases early. In order to do so, he thought it desirable, that some facilities should be afforded of sending persons to the intended asylums who were not exactly paupers, such as mechanics and other labourers, who might not have means enough to bear the expense of a private asylum, and who, if properly treated in the early stage of their complaint, might in a short time be restored to their previous position and state of mind. He was sure that such a provision would be highly beneficial. The other point to which be should call attention was the necessity of not overcrowding these asylums, or making them larger than was requisite for the accommodation of a number of persons not exceeding 300. In the county of Lancaster there were from 600 to 800 lunatics without any fit provision for their peculiar and melancholy condition—most of them being placed in workhouses, owing to the expense of sending them to the asylums. In first treating cases, he thought that a distinction should be made between recent and chronic cases; and he approved of the noble Lord's proposition for sending them, in the first instance, to a place where there was a possibility of their being cured, and afterwards to another asylum at a less expense.
 Mr. Henley  expressed his thanks to the noble Lord for bringing forward these measures.
 Sir G. Strickland  spoke of the great difficulties which magistrates frequently encountered in the discharge of their duty, owing to the want of public lunatic asylums, and expressed his satisfaction that the proposed measures were to be not only general, but compulsory He was sure that in the end the compulsory system would be found to be the most economical as well as the most humane.
 Sir J. Graham : Sir, I rise with sincere satisfaction to second the Motion of my noble Friend. The House will remember—it would be impossible in justice to forget—the speech which my noble Friend made on this subject towards the close of last Session. That speech made on me and on every one who heard it the deepest impression; and I gave to the House and to my noble Friend an assurance, on the part of the Government, that it was impossible any longer to neg-
 198 199 200
 Mr. W. Wynn  said, that owing to the number of Papers which the Committee of Privileges had to inspect, and the many searches they had to make, they would not be able to lay before the House any Report in sufficient time to be considered on Monday next. He, therefore, proposed that the adjourned debate on the question be further adjourned to Monday week.
 Viscount Clements  said, he had no doubt that the Bills that would be introduced for England would please both sane and insane; but he had to complain that the measure intended for Ireland, so far as he knew of it, was neither as liberal nor as comprehensive as could be desired.
 Mr. Williams  thought, that in justice to the measure that had been passed last year, the Government were bound not to afford any greater facilities for the issue of paper money in Scotland or in Ireland. He remembered when the Bill of 1814 was reenacted in 1826, after it had been partly repealed in 1822; so far as regarded the circulation of one pound notes—he remembered the threat of the Scotch bankers on that occasion. They said, that they had an immense amount of property in the funds, and they would dispose of that property and get the amount in gold, and put the Bank of England in difficulty. That threat prevented the Government from suppressing the issue of one pound notes in Scotland. It was said that there were no failures in the Scotch banks. He remembered several failures. A short time ago, in consequence of the failure of a bank near Paisley, there existed the most intolerable distress, when the Paisley manufacturers were obliged to apply for charity.
 Sir R. Ferguson  said that since the beginning of December last the wants of Ireland had called for an issue of notes to the amount of 700,000 l.; l.
 The O'Conor Don  thought that the Hibernian Bank ought not to be put in a worse position than that in which it had hitherto been, especially as it had conducted its business in a satisfactory manner. The right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir R. Peel) had formerly expressed a desire to meet the wishes of the people of Ireland with regard to another part of that subject. He could assure the right hon. Baronet that if he wished to give satisfaction to the people of that country, he would reconsider his decision with a view to altering it on this point.
 Mr. M. J. O' Connell  suggested that the average of the circulation should be taken, not, as proposed by the Bill, for twelve months previous to the 27th of April last, but, as in the English Bill, for twelve weeks preceding that period.
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  would not give the House the trouble of dividing on the question.
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  proposed to leave out the words, "At the Head Office in Dublin." By the law as it at present stood, which they did not want to change, every bank was obliged to pay its notes at its branches as well as at the head office in Dublin. The effect of the clause in the Bill would be to embarrass commercial enterprise, by unnecessarily restricting the circulation, for the banks would be obliged to keep bullion to meet their notes, not only at their branches in the country, but at their head offices in Dublin.
 Mr. S. Wortley  thought there was so much reason in the objections against the plan of the Government on this point, that they ought to concede it. He quite concurred in the observation of the hon. Member who had spoken last.
 Sir R. Ferguson  hoped the right hon. Baronet would reconsider this subject. The prohibition of these fractional notes would cause the greatest inconvenience to small traders in Ireland.
 Colonel Conolly  said, that at the present moment, no one could deny that the circulation proposed in the Bill would be sufficient for the wants of Ireland; but though he might be charged with being a prosperity monger, and indulging in Utopian visions as to the prospects of Ireland, yet he must state, that the events of last year justified the assertion that a limited circulation would be injurious to the prosperity of Ireland. It was shown by the Returns before the House, that the circulation of Ireland had increased one million within the last year: and it was further shown that this had arisen from no particular stimulus to industry, but that it had arisen from a general improvement in the industry and cultivation of the country. He found that the imports of Belfast and Derry had extended in a way that was not to be described; and this improvement was general with all the ports along the coast; and this prosperity, he trusted, would be permanent, and would call forth a still more extended circulation. He, therefore, trusted he could elicit from the Minister of the day some sort of a declaration, that along with the expanding energies of Ireland, provision should be made for an increased circulation. The imports of Dublin had increased nearly one-half during the past year, and this was legitimately derived from the general improvement of the country. He might also add that an increase had taken place in the wages of labour. He had left Kildare last month; and he found, that in consequence of the proposed railway there, the wages of the labouring classes had been raised twopence in the shilling. These, he considered, were all reasons why the circulation of Ireland should not be restricted, lest the growing prosperity of that country should be checked. He complained, that by the proposed Bill, the banks were only to obtain credit for the amount of bullion which they held at the head establishment. Then, with regard to the advantage of banks to agriculture, he might mention that for six months there was hardly a dealing with the banks by the Irish farmers, and for other six months the pressure upon the banks by them was very severe. To show the injury which would accrue to agriculture if they did not get the accommodation
 248 s. s.
 Mr. F. Maule  proposed an Amendment to the effect, that the bankers be allowed to amend their Returns of circulation.
 Mr. Hawes  denied that the Scotch circulation was sustained during the time of the greatest drains by drawing on the Bank of England.
 Mr. Hawes  was disposed to support the Motion of the hon. Baronet behind him (Sir W. Somerville), on the principle of the general benefit that might accrue to Ireland, from extending to that country a sound system of joint-stock banking. It was said, that if they went to Scotland they would find a sound system there in operation, which was essentially beneficial to the public. As to the reply of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government with respect to the Banking Bill of last year, he (Mr. Hawes) should observe that he did not consider himself bound by that measure, some portions of which he had opposed at the time, and some modifications of which he confessed he should like to see introduced. Several of the great commercial towns of Ireland, such as Cork, Limerick, Belfast, and Waterford, had applied for accommodation to the Bank of England, in consequence of the existing monopoly of the Bank of Ireland, and that having been refused to them, he considered, if it was supposed to be of service to Ireland to have this power of issue sought for granted, that it ought to be conceded. There was no reason to suppose that this power would increase the present circulation—it might rather tend to diminish it. In conclusion, he had only to say, that however the present system might be viewed, he thought it was only good policy to extend to Ireland the benefit of a sound system of joint-stock banking, and on that ground he was disposed to support the Motion before the House.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that if any parties had a right to complain of the Bill, it was the English, not the Irish Members. There was a fairness and liberality towards Ireland in this Bill, which he had looked in vain for in the English measure. But, at the same time, he thought that the wish of the Irish Members might be acceded to on this point.
 Mr. Speaker  stated, that the Sergeant-at-Arms had a communication to make to the House. v. l. s."
 Mr. C. Wood  supported the clause. He thought it would be most beneficial to the country to bring silver into circulation; and he hoped the right hon. Baronet would not consent to the alteration.
 Mr. C. Wood  thought that, in some respects, the measure of the right hon. Baronet with regard to Ireland was in some of its enactments more liberal than the measure extended to Scotland. He did not think that any case had been made out for the extension of those privileges to those banks. It might be true that to confine the issues to existing banks was to give them a monopoly. No doubt it was. But the right hon. Baronet was anxious in these measures to preserve existing interests, and therefore he allowed existing banks to issue up to the amount they issued now. He did not think there was any fair ground for the complaint that parties had been taken by surprise, and that being so, he could not agree to this motion.
 Mr. Ross  saw no objection to this clause; but by another clause the bankers of Ireland
 267
 Mr. Ross  was sorry to occupy the House, but he wished that farther time were allowed for consideration of this measure. All classes and all parties in the north of Ireland were satisfied that the enactment of the Bill, in its present form, would be exceedingly detrimental to the prosperity of that country. As it was now framed, the Bill was more detrimental than as it was originally proposed. There had been no opposition, at least no clamorous opposition, raised against it; because they took for granted that no material alteration would be made in the Bill. He complained of the mode in which the averages were to be struck. They were confined to the circulation of 1844; but it appeared that the circulation in the month of April, 1845, had considerably increased above April, 1844; so that the effect of this measure would be to check the rapidly increasing circulation of Ireland. Then the right hon. Baronet had assigned as a reason for adopting a different method of taking the English averages, as compared with the Irish and Scotch averages, that the latter parties had been warned of his intention to regulate their issues; while the announcement of the measure affecting the English banks came upon the English bankers like a clap of thunder. Now, what did that statement imply but a charge against the Irish and Scotch bankers, that they had combined together to force up the circulation; and he denied that they had done so, or that, from the
 246 l. l. l. l. 247
 Mr. Ross  assured the Government, that whatever other concessions were made, they would be quite useless, unless they conceded the present point. The people of Ireland would not be satisfied without it.
 Mr. E. B. Roche  said, his hon. Friend (Mr. Redington) was wrong in looking for a reason from the right hon. Baronet, who was not under any necessity for giving a reason, backed as he was by a majority who would support him. The Irish Members and the interests of Ireland were in fact treated with contempt, and he advised his hon. Friends to take no more trouble with the Bill.
 Mr. E. B. Roche  supported the Motion; and wished to know on what grounds it was that Ministers refused those banks the privilege of being banks of issue at a time when they were doing away with that monopoly which the Bank of Ireland long
 262
 Mr. E. B. Roche  said, that the right hon. Baronet, in trying to make out a case for this Bill, had alluded to those times of banking depression which had caused so much distress in Ireland; but it was scarcely necessary to remark that things had materially altered since that period. The right hon. Baronet had then alluded to the failure of many banks which had occurred subsequently. Undoubtedly that was so; but many of those banks had recovered themselves. His objection to the Bill was, that the right hon. Baronet had failed to make out a case for interference with the banks of Ireland. The right hon. Baronet had admitted that those banks were respectable; they had not issued an excessive amount of paper; nor had they carried on their banking transactions with imprudence. Then why interfere with them at all? The effect of the Bill would be to restrict the circulation of the country. Now, the commerce of Ireland was increasing by an extended system of railways; and was this the time to restrict the circulating medium? The Bill would do great injustice to the two Banks—the Royal Bank of Dublin, and the Hibernian Bank. They had always maintained a trustworthy position; and yet they could not become banks of issue. He was not, however, prepared to offer any objections to the Bill going into Committee. As the Bill passed, he should offer his opposition to several of its clauses; but he had been unwilling to let the Bill go into Committee, without stating that no case had been made out for any interference with the banking system of Ireland.
 Mr. E. Turner  thought that the banking measure in England had had the effect of making the work less profitable, but more comfortable, to bankers; and if there should be a consequent and ultimate falling off in the amount of issues, the question must be reconsidered, not only with respect to Scotland, but also with reference to England and Ireland.
 Mr. Muntz  supported the Resolutions proposed for the extension of the advantages of this Bill to Ireland. One great argument in favour of the Resolutions was, that Ireland was a poor country, and had on this account a claim to particular consideration, in respect to the special matter under discussion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought that to those who had attended to the previous part of the discussion the speech of the hon. Baronet must have afforded considerable satisfaction, as it showed that, under circumstances more unfavourable than could ever again occur, these two banks had carried on a profitable banking business.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said,
 258 259 l., l. s. l. s. l., l. s. d. l. s.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  regretted that he could not accede to the wishes of hon. Gentlemen opposite. The Bill provided sufficient margin for the expansion of the currency. He did not share in the apprehension of the hon. Member for Kerry, that the increased commerce and improved railway communication of Ireland would be injured by the restricted circulation of this Bill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  opposed the Motion, on the ground that it was identical in substance with one negatived on Friday.
 Mr. Trelawny  assented to the general banking principles of the right hon. Baronet, which were founded upon the doctrines of free trade; but, upon the present point, he agreed with the Irish Members; and, on the last division, had voted with the minority. Many English Members had done the same; and so it was not fair to charge them with indifference to Irish interests.
 Mr. Hume  understood, that the right hon. Baronet had determined not to make any alteration in the currency of Scotland; and he could not, therefore, allow this clause to pass without opposition. All he wanted was an explanation of the measure. If it was good it should meet with his support. The right hon. Baronet had stated that he wanted, in case of an overflow of paper money, to guard against the Scottish banks
 242
 Mr. Hume  supported the Amendment, and protested against any interference with the Scotch currency.
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  replied, that he considered the plan proposed was perfectly practicable. He would put the case of thirty customers coming to a young bank from the old bank. The old bank would decline to make issues to the same extent as formerly, because they would be unnecessary; but the other bank to which the customers went would require an increased circulation. This might be allowed; and yet the whole circulation of Scotland would be kept within the present limits. The only reason against his proposal was, that the amount of issue would be a matter of speculation; but he had received evidence that it might be securely allowed; the banks of Edinburgh and Glasgow would understand every week, whether one bank wanted more or less, and the individual
 245
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  considered this clause to impose a tremendous penalty. He wished to modify it. Supposing one, two, or three banks in Scotland issued short of the amount which they were by law permitted to issue, he would permit other banks to issue in excess to the same amount that those banks issued short. This would be the means of keeping up the full amount of circulation within Scotland, which, according to the Returns, would not be less than 3,061,000 l. l., "Provided always, that such banker shall not be liable in such penalty, unless the aggregate amount of such monthly circulation of all the bankers in Scotland shall exceed the aggregate amount of the average circulation of all the banks in Scotland to be taken in manner herein provided."
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  supported the claims of the Royal and Hibernian Banks to the enjoyment of the advantages conferred by this Bill.
 Mr. Bellew  considered the Hibernian Bank was especially entitled to consideration, inasmuch as for many years it had counteracted and resisted the stringent and imperious monopoly of the Bank of Ireland, at a period when that establishment was indisposed to afford accommodation to any persons except those of a particular line of political opinions.
 Mr. M. O'Ferrall  was sorry that the right hon. Gentleman would not concede to the wishes of his hon. Friends. All that was required was to gain security for the
 265
 Mr. M. O'Ferrall  said, that the people, in making bargains at fairs, found great convenience in the 30 s. s.
 Mr. Redington  asked why the right hon. Baronet did not give a reason for making a distinction between the two countries?
 Mr Redington  said, that the plan of the Government demanded from the Irish banker 2 1. 1.
 Mr. Redington  said, that the right hon. Baronet had not proposed the clause in the first instance. He could not then have considered it of so much importance; and it looked very like inconsistency to propose it now.
 Mr. Redington  did not think that the right hon. Gentleman could point out, either in London or in Scotland, any bank which had been put in the same position by the Act of last Session, as that in which the present measure would place the two banks referred to by his hon. Friend the Member for Drogheda. He hoped, therefore, the House would not be led astray by the notion, that they were about to do for Ireland the same thing which had been done for England and Scotland. The belief in Ireland was, that the right hon. Baronet opposite had curtailed the paper circulation of Ireland to an amount below what it ought to be, and he trusted the Government would reconsider the subject.
 Mr. Redington  complained that the Irish bankers had not been put upon the same footing as the English bankers.
 Mr. Redington  said, that the speech of the right hon. Gentleman seemed to evince a disposition to play off Ireland against Scotland, and to satisfy the members for the one country by assuring them that they were treated quite as well, if not better, than the other. Why had not the right hon. Gentleman adopted the same system with regard to Ireland as had
 253
 Mr. Wyse  admitted that much which had fallen from the right hon. Baronet was founded upon sound views of the interests not only of Ireland, but of the kingdom generally. At the same time he thought in the measure before the House that there were provisions which carried out too far the principle which was sought to be established by the right hon. Baronet. In his anxiety to restrict over-issue the right hon. Baronet had not provided the power of expansion which was required in Ireland, whose interests were in course of development, and a new enactment might very soon be found necessary to meet the growing exigencies which would necessarily follow the development of her labour and capital. The right hon. Baronet had not provided for increasing the number of banks as well as the increase of issues in each bank. No one would contend, but that Ireland might not rise to the same condition as Scotland. He thought that the present measure would have the effect of giving a monopoly to the existing banks in Ireland without any reference whatever to new ones that might be established.
 Mr. Wyse  supported the Amendment. He thought that those Banks had the fullest claim to the enjoyment of those privileges. If those banks had had timely notice that the Bank of Ireland was disposed to surrender its peculiar privileges, there was no doubt that they would have come forward and established their claim. He felt bound to support the Motion for the extension of those privileges to those banks, convinced that it was just.
 Mr. Wyse  said, that he had anxiously waited for some reason from the Government for the course they were adopting, but no reason had been given. All the objection the Government could offer to the Amendment was a small inconvenience; whilst to their plan were opposed the general banking interests of Ireland.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  would appeal to the good feeling of Government on this question. They had recently been acting upon a very conciliatory policy towards Ireland; but this measure had a very un-conciliatory tendency. It would excite a very unpleasant feeling in that country, if the Government carried this measure in opposition to the united remonstrances of the Irish Members—particularly as no advantage had been proved as likely to result from the change. He hoped, therefore, that, in some way or other, those banks would be allowed to issue notes.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  conceived that the ultimate object which the Government had in view was to assimilate the condition of Ireland to England, with regard to the bank-note system. He should certainly wish to see an assimilation effected between the two countries in respect to all measures that were good; but he was one of those who thought the restriction to the gold circulation in England was not a benefit to England. It was no wonder, then, that he was not willing to assent to the same principle as regarded Ireland. They should recollect that England had arisen to the highest pitch of prosperity in her commerce, and that Ireland had been in the greatest poverty, and was only progressing now in a very small degree towards prosperity. What then was fit for England was unfit for Ireland. He fully assented to all that had been said in regard to the admirable conduct of the banking companies of Belfast; any measure that would limit the circulation of notes in Ireland would have a most injurious effect upon the trade of the north of Ireland. He thought that there ought to be a free trade in banking as well as in other matters, only taking the precaution
 254
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, I wish I could impress upon the Representatives of Ireland some portion of the strong conviction I feel in my own mind that I am proposing a measure most intimately connected with the growing prosperity of Ireland. There is no country on the face of the earth which will derive a greater advantage from a sound system of banking and a stable system of government. There is no country on the face of the earth which has suffered more evils from a bad and imperfect system of banking than Ireland. I have had personal experience of this at the time of my official connexion with that country; and I say there were then cases of extreme distress in the south and west of Ireland, arising from the simultaneous failure of almost all the banks in that portion of Ireland—cases of the most heartrending distress to individuals, as well as of injury to the general interests of the country. I will refer the House to an extract with regard to the failure of banks from the Report of the Committee of Irish exchanges, which sat in 1804. At that period there were fifty registered banks, but they all failed; and their failure, I know personally, led to the most fearful distress. I never saw such wide-spread distress as was caused by the failure of those banks in Ireland. There were then only private banks, but recently joint-stock banks have been erected. Well, but what is the first advantage which I propose to give to the bankers of Ireland by this Bill? We propose to apply to Ireland that principle of the convertibility of paper into gold, without which no banking system can be securely carried on; and we make this quite certain, if the bankers of Ireland conduct their affairs with ordinary prudence they will incur no risk whatever. What occurred in 1837? There was then a bank existing called the "Agricultural Bank" in Ireland. It was a joint-stock
 249 "Undoubtedly. The Provincial Bank was previously ready for a run, for it was feared that the general circulation of the country would be discredited. The Provincial Bank had a great quantity of gold; it was always very considerable. The amount of gold in the Irish Banks at the time payment of their notes was demanded exceeded their issues." "Do you speak of your own knowledge?—Yes. Can you inform us if the greater part of the gold came from England?—All from England. Did it come from London and other places?—Principally from London, but also from Liverpool, and I believe from Bristol, but I am not sure. That is to say, the gold in the Bank of England and in the branch banks is made to supply the Banks of Ireland." "Contemporaneously with this large demand, gold was demanded at all the banks, including the Bank of Ireland, and that the increased supply of gold was very considerable, indeed, not falling short, he believed, of 2,000,000 l." 250 l. l. 251 l., l. l. 252
 Sir R. Peel : The hon. Gentleman talked of a tremendous penalty; but the penalty would be consequent on the amount of excess of issue; therefore, if the excess of issue should be small, the penalty would be small; and if great, the penalty great. What was done in the case of the English banks? Joint-stock banks in England were prevented from combining; but it was permitted in Scotland for any two or more banks to combine; and the aggregate amount of the issues of those banks so combined, was to be certified by the Commissioners. In case, however, there should be any excess in the circulation of any one bank, it was to be liable
 244
 Sir R. Peel  said, that when trade was good and speculation rife, there was generally a tendency to issue an increased quantity of paper where facilities existed. For a certain limited time the value of the paper would be kept up; but when a period of depression came, it would be incumbent to convert notes into gold; that could only be done by a sale of securities and obtaining gold, of which the only receptacle was the Bank of England. These remarks applied to the banks of Scotland, and were also equally applicable to the provincial banks of England. The value of the whole currency would be diminished; and it would soon be discovered that paper was issued to excess, and with such a simultaneous demand for gold from Scotland and England upon the Bank of England, great inconvenience would result, and commercial transactions generally would be greatly restricted and impeded. It was, therefore, sound policy to place some restrictions on the issue of notes.
 Sir R. Peel  said, no advantage had been taken of the Irish bankers, to whom twelve months had been given, which had not been given to the English bankers.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that his only object was to do that which would be permanently beneficial to the country. The Bill which was passed last year was to prevent the establishment of any new banks of issue. It was not merely a Bill for regulating bank charters, but it was also a Bill for taking precaution against excessive issues, and was applicable to any part of the United Kingdom. That was distinctly expressed at the time, and might be in the memory of many Gentlemen who were present during the discussion, which took place on the occasion. It had been decidedly announced, as the intention of the Government, that that Bill was intended to be generally applicable to the United Kingdom, and that the principle involved in it was, that no new banks of issue should be established. There were two banks in Dublin which never exercised the privilege of issue; and last year they passed an Act to the effect that no bank which had not then the privilege should, subsequently, be allowed to issue. He was not surprised, that not having had hitherto the privilege of issue, they should have conducted their business so satisfactorily as had been mentioned;
 261
 Sir R. Peel  said, that hon. Gentlemen seemed very much alarmed at the consequences which would follow from restriction. They thought that an increased currency was essential to the prosperity of a country, and they referred to Scotland. He would read the opinions of Scotchmen themselves. [The right hon. Baronet read a statement published by the Directors of the Glasgow Chamber of Commerce in 1841, which showed that the circulation of Scotland had diminished in late years, while the transactions of the country increased.] It was on the proper distribution of capital by banks, that the prosperity of a country depended, and not on the amount of its paper currency. It was far better that there should be a sound paper currency, than that there should be a short and delusive prosperity accompanied by a speedy reaction. He much preferred the system adopted in Ireland of making the notes payable on demand at the branch banks, to the system adopted in Scotland, of making them payable only at the head
 266
 Sir R. Peel  said, it was impossible, in proposing a measure like the present, to foresee every case that might arise. It might look like inconsistency; but the question, after all, was, whether what was proposed in the clause would be for the advantage of Ireland; and he really believed it was.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he could not conceive how any Government could be supposed to have any motive in imposing a restriction upon the currency of Ireland, unless with a view of securing the welfare of the country. He had had long experience of the effects of an uncontrolled circulation in Ireland. He remembered the years 1819, 1820, and 1825, and the disasters which overtook numberless individuals, who in vain struggled against the misfortunes in which they were involved. So far from treating the Members from Ireland, or the interests of Ireland, with contempt or neglect, he had the strongest impression they were consulting the interests of Ireland, by putting some check to the undue increase of the paper circulation of the country.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he believed the effect of prohibiting the issuing of such notes would be to increase the silver circulation; and he had so strong an impression of the advantage of this, that he could not agree to the suggestion of the hon. Member.
 Sir R. Peel  was much disappointed at the manner in which the measure had been received. He certainly had thought that the right hon. Gentleman opposite would have seen, in his (Sir R. Peel's) exposition of this measure, a desire not to alter, but to preserve within safe limits, the system of Scotch banking.
 Sir R. Peel  had no objection to lay on the Table a continuation of the Papers relative to the state of Syria; but as a considerable time had elapsed since the last correspondence was produced, some little delay would take place in the publication of some portions of that correspondence. He, however, could lay on the Table at an early period, that portion of it, which related to the Emir Beschir, and the noble Lord would probably have an opportunity of seeing it in the course of a few days. With respect to the other question put by the noble Lord, he thought considerable inconvenience might result to the public from the publication of the evidence referred to; and, therefore, he could not consent to its production.
 Sir W. Somerville  hoped the right hon. Baronet would not prohibit the circulation of 25 s. s.
 Sir William Somerville  said, his argument was, that the exclusive system was more favourable for these two banks than the proposed measure, unless they were permitted to share in the privilege of issue.
 Sir W. Somerville  replied. The analogy between Scotland and Ireland did not hold, for in Scotland they had no monopoly to deal with; but that was not the case in Ireland. As the monopoly was now to be abolished, he contended that these banks whose case he had brought forward ought to share in the advantages. He agreed with those hon. Gentlemen who stated, that Ireland was now beginning a career of prosperity. He believed that a career of prosperity was now opening upon them, of which no man could foretell the extent; and he trusted the right hon. Baronet would not, by this measure, interfere to check it.
 Sir William Somerville  said, he had a case of great and unmerited hardship to bring before the Committee on the part of two of the best and most meritorious establishments existing in Ireland, namely, the Hibernian and the Royal Banks, In consequence of the refusal of the Bank of Ireland to afford sufficient banking accommodation, a number of banks having less than six partners were established, and the subsequent failure of many of these establishments was well known. In consequence of the depression of trade which ensued, and the continued monopoly of the Bank of Ireland, the Hibernian Bank was established in 1824. The hon. Baronet read the evidence of the late Mr. Ignatus Callaghan, one of the directors of the Hibernian Bank, given before the Committee of the House of Commons in 1838, to show that at the time the company obtained their Act of Parliament, in June, 1824, Mr. Huskisson and Lord Ripon, then Mr. Robinson, distinctly pledged themselves that the Bank of Ireland charter should not be renewed; and that, were it not for that pledge, and the expectation that at the termination of the
 255 l. 256 257 "And also so much of the said recited Act of 7th and 8th of Her Majesty as prohibits, after the passing of that Act, any other person than a Banker, who on the sixth day of May, one thousand eight hundred and forty-four, was lawfully issuing his own Bank notes, should make or issue Bank notes in any part of the United Kingdom, as far as same may be held to include in its enactment said Hibernian Joint-Stock Company and said Royal Bank."
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had stated that the evidence taken before the Mixed Commission was partly that of French officers, and disclosed the means used by the slavers to escape our cruisers, and that public inconvenience would result from laying it upon the Table of the House; but surely the slave traders were too well acquainted with their own practices to receive any information from these Papers. This evidence was the foundation upon which the two Governments had agreed to abandon the Right of Search; and he put it to the right hon. Baronet whether it were not essential, to enable the House to judge whether the Right of Search had been properly abandoned or not, that they should be in possession of the evidence of officers relating to the use made of the Right of Search, and whether it was or was not necessary for the suppression of the Slave Trade? If the right hon. Baronet would not lay the whole of the evidence on the Table, would he object to producing a part? If there were any delicacy regarding the testimony of the French officers, perhaps he would furnish that of the English officers. He would also take this opportunity of asking the right hon. Baronet if there was any objection to lay on the Table the continuation of the correspondence produced in 1843, relating to the exertions of the British Government
 241
 Mr. Villiers  said, that in rising to bring under the consideration of the House the Motion of which he had given notice, he was happy to feel that amidst many disadvantages under which he was labouring, that there was one circumstance that he could not but consider as favourable; namely, a sort of general admission of the propriety of this Motion being made. At least, it was acknowledged, he thought, that such was the importance of its object, and such was the necessity of some settlement of the question it involved, that it was considered proper and expedient that the opinion of this House should each year be tested upon it. This had hitherto been unworthily done by himself; and such frequent reference had been made to his resuming the task, that he really believed that many on the opposite side would, for the first time, be disappointed, if he failed in bringing forward his usual Motion. The noble Lord the Member for London had said the other night—and he agreed with him—that there could not be a more favourable moment to legislate on the subject than the present; and he was happy to learn that many Members on the opposite side now agreed with the gallant Member for Brecon (Colonel Wood), that the next time it was thought expedient to alter the Corn Law, it would be far wiser to abolish it altogether. He trusted, then, that be should, at least on this occasion, escape the charge of bringing forward an extravagant measure at an inconvenient time, as had sometimes been said; for it seemed that no party was satisfied with the present law, and most men believed that it neither ought, or could, endure much longer. It was some matter of encouragement too, for him to observe that Her Majesty's Ministers were each year getting more confidence in the principles for which he was contending, and that they now saw that nothing was gained by a timid and partial application of them. The interests as-
 286 287 288 289 290 291 292 "He did think, when they had occasion to ask their Representatives to give their strenuous support to the agricultural interest, it did look a little as if those Representatives had not given that strenuous support which they ought, and which they promised to give. [ Cheers. Cheers. "That this meeting, viewing with serious alarm the great depreciation in the value of agricultural produce which has taken place within the last few years, respectfully, but firmly, call upon the Members for the county to urge on the Ministers the necessity of supporting the agricultural interest, and by every means in their power to place agriculture in a better position." "That, in the opinion of this meeting, land has to bear peculiar burdens (particularly the poor, highway, and county rates); and it would be a great relief to agriculture to make them a national charge." "The landlords and tenants must act together. Day by day they must strengthen the bonds which united them. ["Hear, hear."] It was folly to say that either could exist without the other; together they must rise, or together fall. It would never do for the tenant to be distrustful; and the tenant must have full confidence in him, if they would hope to force upon the Legislature those measures which were absolutely necessary to the existence of agriculture." 293 "He had been an extensive practical farmer for a great number of years; and he declared to them that he had never paid so much upon his estate as he had done within the last three years, and he had never received so little income. If that was not a clear case for demanding some assistance from the Legislature, he did not know what was." "Every man who was farming land at 20 s. "That the secretary be directed to forward a copy of these resolutions to each of the county Members, with a request that he will use his most strenuous exertion to force on the attention of Her Majesty's Ministers the principles contained in them." "This is not a meeting for any class of dependents to pay homage and respect which they do not feel, or to bend the knee to the rich aristocrat or grandee; but to show our worthy guest that his public utility, as well as his private worth, is not only felt but acknowledged by us." "The farmers in general look upon the newly-formed Protection Societies with a cautious eye. You will rarely see the name of a
 294 cheers "Would the landlords help them in reality? Would they pledge themselves that they will not take advantage of improvements when they are made? Would they guarantee leases? Would they take care that the crops were not devoured by game? If so, then the landlords might come to these societies with sincerity, shake hands with the tenants, and go to help the labourer." [ Cheers. "He bowed to the chair; but he would add, that if landlords were sincere they should give security to their tenants. [ A voice: and great noise. More noise. Cheers. "Mr. Binns said, I am aware that, in most of the farmers' clubs which have been established in different parts of the country, great anxiety has been evinced by certain parties to exclude the discussion of what they call (and I believe them) 'obnoxious subjects'—such as rents, leases, and game. But somehow or
 295 "No one can regret more than myself the absence of the influential men. Whether the landlords are ashamed to meet the tenants as a humble body, or whether they are afraid of hearing something that would not be palatable, I cannot say; but I can guess which works in their breast the most. The cause of their absence is, I suppose, that they consider the treatment they get on such occasions, anything but what it ought to be; but from what I hear in the market that is not astonishing, for when they attend these meetings there is nothing but recommendation of great landowners to set labourers to work, manure, drain your lands; but they omit one principal feature—they never tell tenants how they can afford to pay for it." 296 297 298 299 from the Member for Devonshire and others. 300 301 302 303 304 305 306 307 308 309 "Great improvements have taken place in agriculture in Ireland. Those improvements, together with abundant harvests, have produced, to a certain extent, nearly the same effect, in extending the field of production, as if the Corn Law had been repealed; hurtful competition has in some degree abated; wages and profits have risen; and the people have been more contented and peaceable. But this effect is only of a temporary kind—population and capital will again grow up to the
 310 311 s.: s. s. 312 s. 313 "That this House resolve itself into a Committee, for the purpose of considering the following Resolutions:— " 'That the Corn Law restricts the supply of food, and prevents the free exchange of the products of labour; " 'That it is, therefore, prejudicial to the welfare of the Country, especially to that of the working classes, and has proved delusive to those for whose benefit the Law was designed; " 'That it is expedient that all restrictions on Corn should be now abolished.'"
 Mr. Oswald  seconded the Motion, and said the present Corn Laws acted only as an hindrance to the industry and commercial prosperity of the country. He reminded the House of an instance in proof. In the year 1815 the Americans said, "If you don't admit our corn, we will put a high duty upon your manufactures." But he need not mention single cases; the effect in all cases was an obstruction to our national commerce. There was at present before the House a Bill for making an assessment on property for the relief of the poor in Scotland, in consequence of the great destitution prevailing among the inhabitants of that country; and he thought the Scotch people had a right to call upon the Government to make food a little cheaper, instead of enacting such a measure as that. It appeared from the evidence collected by the recent Commission of Inquiry that in the agricultural districts and in the Highlands there was a large number of people who, though they were not actually starving, were next door to it. Those who were unable to work or to do anything
 314 s. s.
 Mr. Villiers  explained: He had not expressed his opinion as to the price which a repeal of the Corn Law would produce, but he said that as the right hon. Baronet opposite had a few nights ago spoken of the advantage of an average of 45 s. s.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  said, he was not fortunate enough to hear the opening part of the speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down, nor, when he came into the House, was it his intention to take any part in the debate. For, although the hon. Member for Wolverhampton had challenged him to enter upon this discussion, and to criticise the various publications of the Anti-Corn Law League; yet he considered himself too old a fish to rise to a fly like that. But when the hon. Gentleman opposite challenged hon. Members at that (the Ministerial) side of the House to give a description of the free-trade bazaar, he (Mr. O'Brien) rose boldly to do so; first, lest it should be considered that he was afraid of acknowledging that he had been there; and, secondly, lest it should be supposed that he was unwilling to do justice to the great skill and power there displayed. He must confess that when he saw the productions displayed at that bazaar, he experienced a feeling totally distinct from any class, party, or political feeling—a sense of pride and exultation on account of what his countrymen had done. He felt something separate from and above any question of the Anti-Corn Law League or the Protection Society. He felt a pure, honest, and just satisfaction at seeing how nobly art and science did honour to the
 351 Tantæ ne animis cœlestibus iræ? 352
 Mr. Cavendish  concurred with the prin-
 353
 Lord J. Russell : Sir, I shall not at this time of the night detain the House by referring at any length to those curious specimens of historical erudition with which the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just sat down has favoured the House. He said that in the time of James I. there was free trade, when, as I believe, there was no great amount of commerce of any kind—for we certainly had not made any considerable progress—and that there was a very extensive fluctuation in the price of wheat. I will take the hon. and learned Gentleman's own showing, but I doubt whether any practical inference can be deduced from these curious specimens of historical knowledge. He has given us the further information that some changes in the Corn Law took place in France, but that these changes did not prevent the French Revolution. Undoubtedly, the hon. and learned Gentleman is well founded in facts; but I never before heard a statement that the French Revolution was likely to be prevented by a change in the Corn Laws, nor did I hear the hon. Member for Wolverhampton state in any part of his speech that the change he proposes will tend to prevent consequences at all resembling the French
 364 James Graham: 365 366 "That the Corn Law restricts the supply of food, and prevents the free exchange of the products of labour;"— "That it is therefore prejudicial to the welfare of the country, especially to that of the working classes, and has proved delusive to those for whose benefit the law was designed," 367 s.; 368 s., s. s.
 Mr. Villiers  said, he had been misrepresented on one or two points, and this induced him to trouble the House for a few minutes; for he felt he should be wrong
 380 381
 Mr. Bankes  rose amidst loud cries of "Divide." He said he was anxious to follow the hon. Member who had just sat
 361 s. d. s. s. s., s. 362 Cobden: 363
 Dr. Bowring  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed them had announced his intention of voting against the Motion of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton; yet he had not stated one reason why he should do so. It had been asked whether the peasants of this country were not better off than the peasantry of any other country—than any with whom they came into competition? The great majority of those who cultivated the corn in countries whose produce came into competition with this, such as Poland, Hungary, &c., were persons who received no wages at all. A good deal had been said on the other side of the House on the subject of reciprocity. Now the right hon. Baronet himself at the head of the Government had admitted that this was a delusion. It was a good principle to take from foreigners all they were able to give, and they could compel them to take from us, in return, that which we had to furnish. Much had been already done for the ruling few in the way of legislation, and it was now time that something should be done for the subject many. Whatever might be the amount of resistance offered to those principles, the time was not far distant in which the emancipation of the commerce of this country should have its effect, and the labouring population of this Empire receive the due reward of their industry.
 Mr. Bright  said, that from recent discussions both in that House and elsewhere, he could form but one conclusion as to the maintenance of protection. To a portion of the right hon. Gentleman's speech he gave his cordial assent; but he was at a loss to know whether another portion of it was intended to afford hope to his side of the House, or consolation to the other. The right hon. Baronet appeared, during the delivery of his speech, to have been endeavouring to say one thing at one portion of it, and to unsay it at another portion; so that it would have been impossible for any Member of that House, if he were not acquainted with the right hon. Baronet's opinions from former speeches and previous passages in his life, to ascertain to which side of the question he was most inclined to lean. The right hon. Baronet said, that the change in the Corn Laws ought to be gradual and easy—that they ought gradually to diminish protection, and advance towards free trade by bringing corn into a nearer relation with other articles which the Government had already interfered with; and after that he proceeded to show that, if there were any alteration made, it must amount to a repeal of the Corn Laws. He showed with great force that the opinions of the noble Lord the Member for London were utterly untenable, and he would have said absurd, but that, from the noble Lord's ability and acquaintance with public life, it was impossible he could apply that term with perfect appropriateness to any opinion of the noble
 342 Punch. 343 344 345 346 347 s. s. s. 348 l., l., l., l., l., l. l. l., l. 349 Ironical Cheers. 350
 Mr. Buck  agreed perfectly in an observation made a few nights ago by the right hon. the Vice President of the Board of Trade, that nothing could be more injurious to the agricultural interest than the constant agitation of this question. The country had again to thank the hon. Member for Wolverhampton for having brought forward this Motion; and he must say, with respect to the speech of the hon. Member, that more fallacious opinions on a great subject he had never heard in an enlightened assembly. He was sure in one respect his constituents felt grateful
 326 327
 Mr. Cobden  would detain the House but a short time, but he was anxious to make a few remarks, in order to recall
 354 355 s. 356 357 358 359 360
 Mr. Christopher , in rising to oppose the Motion, should not apologize for attempting to reply to the argument of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, though there had been nothing new adduced on the subject besides what had been urged over and over again for years. The hon. Gentleman's arguments were identical with those rehearsed so frequently at Covent Garden Theatre and elsewhere; although it was but justice to him to state that they had been put with more taste, and supported with less vituperation, than they usually were on that arena. The hon. Gentleman had urged that the present was the most auspicious-moment for the adoption of his Motion; but he differed altogether from that conclusion. In his opinion, on the contrary, no consideration should, under existing circumstances, induce the House to adopt it. For not only had the general principle of protection been fully and fairly discussed and settled within the last few years—at a period when prices were high, and manufacturing distress great—but new modifications of that principle, of an enlarged and liberal nature, had been adopted by the Legislature in connexion with the subject, for the purpose of regulating the import of corn into this country. It was on that ground chiefly — but likewise on the ground that, under the existing Corn Law, all kinds of agricultural produce were at this moment afforded to the consumer at a reasonable price, that he felt bound to give his opposition to the hon. Gentleman's Motion. There were no petitions complaining of the high price of food before that House, nor of the difficulty of procuring it. He firmly believed that if the working classes were consulted on the subject, they would be found
 315 s. d., s. d. s. d., s. d.; s. s. d. s. d. s. 316 s. d. s. s. 317 l. l. 318 s. d., s., s.
 Mr. Mitchell  said, in reference to what the hon. Member who had just sat down had stated respecting the price of wages in Lincolnshire, that the reason of their being higher in that county was its vicinity to the manufacturing districts; and that the only place in Dorsetshire where labourers were well paid was Bridport, because it had trade. But to come to the Motion before the House. The first reason why he would give that Motion his most cordial support was, that it condemned emphatically the sliding scale. He thought, however, that the last alteration in the law had done more good to the consumers than either the Tariff or the Canada Corn Bill. The effect of the sliding scale had been to double the speculation in the corn trade, by adding 1 s. 319 320 321 s. s. s. s. d. l. l. 322 l. l. l. 323 s. s. s. s. Member: s. s. s., s. s. 324 325
 Mr. M. Philips  said, that the hon. Member for Lincolnshire had stated that the manufacturers, whenever they pleased, got rid of their labourers, and threw them back on the agricultural districts. Now, the hon. Member, in asserting this, had drawn a most mistaken opinion from some source or other. He could tell him, that if there was one interest more than another which was identified with the working classes, it was the owners of machinery in mills, and that they were tied down to employ them as much as they possibly could; for if for one moment they suspended the operation of their mills, they lost their connexion, which, if once lost to a manufacturer, it was not easily regained, as by the farmer, who could always take samples of his produce to market, and had not to depend almost on the same miller to purchase from him. He believed that no individuals suffered so much from the suspension of operations as the owners of machinery in mills. If they did not keep it in almost constant work it got out of order; and it was hardly possible to calculate the expense of putting it in repair again when the work was renewed. He merely wished to set the hon. Member right on this point, and he would not trouble the House by going further into this part of the subject. The hon. Member seemed to think that nothing could be easier than for manufacturers to expend money in the purchase of land for cultivation, in the neighbourhood of the towns with which they were connected, so that they might become practically acquainted with the necessity for agricultural protection. Now, the hon. Member forgot that there were many impediments in the way of this—for instance, the law of primogeniture, by which so much land was locked up, and the numerous impediments in the transference of landed property. He thought, however, that it was desirable that manufacturers, wherever they had the opportunity,
 328 329
 Sir J. Graham : Sir, the allusions which were made to me by the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, in the course of the speech which he has addressed to the House, were so frequent and so pointed that, however reluctant I may be to trespass upon your attention, I cannot but think it my duty to offer some observations to the House on the important subject now under discussion. Sir, in the course of the many years which I have occupied a seat in this House it has been my duty so frequently to speak upon this subject that I entirely despair of adducing any new arguments, or thowing any new light or illustration upon a matter which has been so often debated, and upon which I have stated my opinion to the best of my judgment. I entirely concur in many of the observations of the hon. Member for Manchester, who last addressed the House. I am as anxious as he is that this important question—for I agree with him that for the weal or the woe of the country a more important question cannot be discussed and cannot be decided—I agree with him in his earnest desire that our decison should not rest upon a vague desire of promoting any one interest in this country; but that our decision should be guided by a desire to promote the common interests of all classes — to promote the interests of the entire community. And, Sir, I shall not
 330 331 "It is impossible to deny, on comparing the duty which I propose, with that which exists at present, that it will cause a very considerable decrease of the protection which the present duty affords to the home grower, a decrease, however, which, in my opinion, can be made consistently with justice to all the interests concerned. If the agriculturist fairly compares the nominal amount of duty which
 332 333 334 l. 335 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. s. s.; "I think that if a moderate fixed duty were imposed, and the present high protection re-
 336 "The present Law of Settlement is most disadvantageous to the rural districts—that residence in the manufacturing districts should confer a settlement, and that there should be no power of removing to the Agricultural districts." s. s. 337 338 339 340 s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. 341
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, I have had so many opportunities of stating to the House my sentiments on this subject, that I feel reluctant again to express them; but, con-
 369 "That this House do resolve itself into a Committee, for the purpose of considering the following Resolutions:—'That it appears, by a recent census, that the people of this country are rapidly increasing in number; That it is in evidence before this House, that a large proportion of Her Majesty's subjects are insufficiently provided with the first necessaries of life; That, nevertheless, a Corn Law is in force which restricts the supply of food, and thereby lessens its abundance; That any such restriction having for its object to impede the free purchase of an article upon which depends the subsistence of the community is indefensible in principle, injurious in operation, and ought to be abolished; That it is, therefore, expedient that the Act 5 and 6 Victoria, c. 14, shall be repealed forthwith." 370 s. s. 371 372 s. s. s.; 373 374 s. d. s. d., s. d. 375 376 s. s. 377 378
 Viscount Ebrington  said, that he had formerly opposed this Motion, and had never before supported it. He opposed it in 1843, though he had then received a requisition in favour of it signed by many of his constituents, accompanied by a threat from some. On the present occasion, he had received no communication from them upon the subject; so that he came to his present conclusion unbiassed, at least, by any pressure from without. He had formerly opposed it, because he did not wish to render a compromise between two great parties whose interests wee identical, if they would but believe them to be so, impossible; but he regretted to say that, thanks to the shortsighted policy of the Government who conceded anything to clamour, and nothing to justice, and thanks to the obstinate blindness of those supporters who refused to read the signs of the times, he was beginning to despair of any compromise being effected. He had always said that if he had only to choose between no Corn Laws at all, and the present monstrous anomaly of a law opposed to the doctrines of all the political economists who had written upon the subject, and the opinions of all those who knew anything about it, he should have no hesitation in preferring the former alternative. Believing that to be the case now, he should give his hearty support to the Motion of his hon. Friend.
 Viscount Howick , amidst general calls of "divide," observed that neither in the speech of the right hon. Baronet, or of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, had there been one word uttered attempting to contradict the two first Resolutions of his hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton. Had the last Resolution been worded to the effect "that it was expedient that all restrictions on the importation of corn be gradually abolished," the right hon. Baronet's speech would have been an unanswerable speech in support of the hon. Member's Motion. The whole purport of the right hon. Gentleman's speech was, that he could not concur in
 379
 Captain Berkeley  supported the Bill.
 Sir J. Y. Buller , moving the Second Reading of the County Rates Bill, explained that the object of it was to enable magistrates in quarter sesssions to appoint committees from their own body to go from place to place, and to obtain information and returns, in order to equalize county rates. He avowed, that his measure was intended to make general the practice prevailing in Cumberland, and in some other counties. When the rates had been thus prepared, they were to be submitted to the quarter sessions for approval. The principle of rating was the same as in the Poor Law Act.
 The Earl of Lincoln  did not think that the measure he was about to propose regarding the health of towns, would at all facilitate the present measure, as that Bill was to be entirely of a permissive nature, leaving it with the local authorities whether they would adopt it or not. He thought, however, it would be better to omit this
 389
 Mr. Liddell  moved the Second Reading of the Dog Stealing Bill, the object of which was to make dog stealing a misdemeanor, and to visit the second offence with transportation for seven years.
 Mr. Hawes  suggested that the 1st Clause relative to the appointment of inspectors, be postponed till the Bill of the noble Lord (Lord Lincoln) with regard to nuisances in towns was laid before the House, as probably the same inspectors would do for both objects.
 Mr. B. Escott  said, that the object of this Bill was to obliterate the wise distinctions made by the law of England, and to do so in the most cruel manner. He hoped there would be a division, and that the House would reject this ignorant and meddling attempt at legislation.
 Mr. Darby  did not object to the Bill going into Committee, nor did he agree with the objections of the hon. Member for Manchester. In particular, he thought that what the hon. Member said about the
 387 pro formâ,
 Mr. Aglionby  thought an inspector would be of use; for, if no person were appointed to look after the matter, what was every body's business would be nobody's.
 Mr. Warburton  opposed the Bill, as awarding punishments disproportioned to the offence, and as being inconsistent with the mild spirit of recent legislation.
 Mr. Brotherton  thought there ought to be a uniform system of rating adopted all over the country; but he did not object to this Bill going into Committee.
 Mr. Henley  approved generally of the measure, and thought its promoters were entitled to the thanks of the House for bringing it forward.
 Mr. Hume  wished that a Bill of a more comprehensive nature should be brought forward; and by the Government. He had formerly brought a general measure on this question forward, and he was then told that it was the business of Government to deal with such large questions, and he was, therefore, obliged to withdraw it. He hoped the right hon. Baronet, when he had leisure, would turn his attention to this subject. When that took place, he trusted, some provision would be made for the ratepayers having some control over the funds which they contributed. He also wished that some provision should be made for auditing the accounts of the magistrates. At present they were the only parties in the kingdom whose accounts were unaudited by persons separate from themselves.
 Mr. Hume  objected to several provisions of the Bill, as opening the door to great oppression. He begged to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 Mr. M. Gibson  contended, that local taxation of this kind ought to be taken up by Government, and dealt with on a comprehensive scale. The Reports of Commissioners showed that the whole local taxation of the kingdom was in a most complicated state, and required to be simplified. The Bill before the House would do little or nothing towards the remedy of existing evils, and still left the whole power of rating in the hands of justices, who were themselves parties deeply interested. He complained also that the principle of rating was unjust, inasmuch as it made house and town property pay at least twice as much as land.
 Mr. M. Gibson  said, as his objections were to the details, he would not oppose the second reading.
 Mr. Mackinnon  said, if they postponed this clause, it was equivalent to postponing the Bill altogether. He proposed to appoint the inspectors, subject to the regulations contained in the noble Lord's Bill.
 Mr. Mackinnon  said, the object he had in appointing inspectors was this:—Suppose a gentleman annoyed with smoke from his neighbour in the country, he might not like to prefer a complaint, but he could mention the matter to the inspector, who would at once take it up.
 Mr. Watson  said, that, as the law stood at present, dog stealing could not be made the subject of an indictment for larceny; but it was punishable with fine, imprisonment and whipping, and surely that was enough to protect the pug-dogs of the old ladies of England.
 Sir G. Strickland  felt opposed to the Bill. However, he thought that there were some clauses in it which aided the operations of the existing law.
 Sir. Graham  said, the hon. Gentleman was a hard taskmaster. On a late occasion the noble Lord the Member for London reproached the Government with discouraging legislation by private Members. Here was an attempt to legislate on a practical question by private Members; and the hon. Gentleman reproached the Government with not having taken the subject into their own bands. With regard to the present measure he did not consider it as professing to deal with the whole question of county rates; but still it was a measure which would benefit the counties to a considerable
 388
 Sir J. Graham  said, he believed it was well known that dog stealing was carried on in this city to an enormous extent, and it was also known that the present Police Act was quite insufficient for its prevention. The possession of a dog was a possession recognised in law; and, although he was not prepared to support all the provisions of the present Bill, he felt that he should act consistently with his duty in giving his support to the second reading.
 The Earl of Arundel and Surrey  said, that he was desirous to call the attention of the House to some speeches that had been made at a meeting in Scotland, the purport of which was, to recommend the exclusion of Roman Catholic priests from the poorhouses in Scotland. He objected to such sentiments coming from the members of the Free Church of Scotland, and thought that they came with worse grace from them, inasmuch as they were claiming toleration for themselves. He hoped that means would be found of providing for the spiritual wants of the poorer classes of the Catholic population of Scotland.
 Colonel Wood  was desirous to ameliorate the system as much as possible. He objected to the proposed enactment as to the Law of Settlement; and concurred in the views of the right hon. Gentleman who recommended the reduction of the period of residence to three years from seven years, in order to gain a settlement. If they adopted the plan of the Bill they
 408
 Mr. Edward Ellice , jun., adverted to the difficulty of framing a measure which should apply to the different sorts of population in Scotland. With respect to the general board, he thought it ought to be constituted to be the sole party adjudicating, without appeal to the Court of Session. In the Highlands of Scotland it was nonsense to talk (and he spoke from what he knew of the condition of that part of the country) of the likelihood of the parochial boards, constituted as they were, ever assessing the parishes. Thus the poor man was completely in the hands of the proprietor of the soil. He was generally distant from any place where he could obtain relief, and removed from all the advantages derived from living among a town population. He might live on a spot many miles from the main land, where every person on the island was under the dominion of the lord of the soil. The parochial board would be solely in the interest of the landlords; the same objection applied to the inspector, who must live in the place. In the Highland parishes, where would they get an inspector who was not a large tenant, and under the dominion of the landlord? The machinery of the Bill must be quite different and distinct from that of the English system. Many causes had conduced to bring about the present state of the Highlands; he should not dwell upon them; they were copiously detailed in the evidence taken by the Commissioners; he believed they took every pains with the subject; and he only wondered how any reasonable person,
 421 422
 Mr. Scott  hoped that the right hon. Baronet would not postpone the measure; the state of distress which the Reports of the Commissioners exhibited was so urgent, that he thought not even a night should be lost in passing a measure for its relief. This measure was, in his opinion, a well-considered and well-digested measure, meeting most of the evils which existed, although deficient certainly in some of its minor details. As to the acquirement of a settlement after seven years, he entirely concurred in the provision of the Bill. It was well known that the influx of Irish into Scotland was a great cause of
 423
 Mr. E. Ellice  said, he took a different view with regard to the principle of the Bill, from all those who had spoken on the subject. He thought, that there were sufficient means of protection for the poor of Scotland, if they were only properly carried out. The only difficulty was, that they had no due power of administering those means, though be should say, that the more simple the machinery they proposed, and the more in accordance with the authorities now constituted in Scotland for the administration of the existing law, the better. He thought it would be perfectly sufficient if they provided by Bill competent inspectors, and gave them a power with respect to the assessment and relief of the poor, of applying to the sheriff or his substitute, as a court in the first instance, before going to the Court of Session. He agreed in many of the objections that had been urged by his right hon. Friend the Member for Leith. He had no wish to entomb or delay the Bill, but he thought that the details of the measure, particularly the subject of the consolidation of parishes, could be better examined up-stairs than in a Committee of the whole House. How was it possible, at the present period of the Session, to consider the subject fully in a Committee of the whole House? He was not opposed to the Bill, however. With all its defects he would assist in its progress, and would abstain from voting if a Motion was made to refer the Bill to a Select Committee. He would only make one further observation, namely, that he hoped, under no circumstances, would an attempt be made to change the principle of assessment of property in
 435
 Mr. Collett  observed, that it had been urged that, under the proposed Bill, only one person was to be paid. He found, however, that, in addition to this person,
 436
 Sir R. Ferguson  thought it hard that the Bank of Ireland should not be allowed to lend money on the security of landed property.
 Sir D. Norreys  considered, that those banks which had not the security of having a certain quantity of bullion in their coffers, would not have the same opportunity of extending their business as the banks which retained specie. He would rather see the banks deprived of the power of issuing notes beyond the bullion in their possession, than allow a few banks to enjoy such exclusive advantages.
 The O'Conor Don  did not regard as a concession the allowance of two banks of issue in one of the provinces, while the other three provinces would be limited to two more. If the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer would allow two banks where business was extensive, as in the south, for instance, and allow also a bank for each province, that would be going a step further than the hon. Member for Kildare, and might be looked upon as a concession.
 Mr. F. Maule  said, that after the disposition shown by the right hon. Baronet to attend to the propositions made, he could not think of pressing his Amendment to a division.
 Mr. F. Maule  moved, that it should be referred to a Select Committee up-stairs. He disclaimed all intention of delaying the Bill. His sole object was to have its minutiæ fully discussed by gentlemen acquainted with the various localities to which its provisions referred. If the Government would agree to send the Bill to the Committee proposed, he would be happy to leave the nomination of that Committee entirely in their hands. He thought, that to refer the Bill to a Select Committee, was the only way in which justice could be done to the question at all.
 Mr. F. Maule  said, he could not see how, with any prospect of bringing this Bill into anything like an operative state, it could be discussed in that House; it ought to be referred to a Select Committee up-stairs. His object in moving that it be so referred was, not to entomb it for the Session, for no one was more anxious than he was to place it on a proper footing; but only that it might be digested by men who knew the merits of every individual case, so that it might be placed before the public in such a shape that all might agree to it. That was not a singular course to be taken with a Bill of this description, especially with a Scotch Bill; for he recollected bringing a Bill into that House in which the people of Scotland were most deeply interested; and, although the question of assessment was the only great question to be discussed, yet, until he had consented to take it up-stairs to a Committee of Scotch Members, he never attempted to force it through the House. The same consideration ought to be shown to this measure. If, indeed, he had looked at it with the single eye of a landed proprietor, he should have allowed it to pass without opposition; but he must say, and without any wish to give offence, that if this Bill were adopted in the present state, it would go forth to the people of Scotland, not as a Bill for the benefit of the poor, but to protect the rich from contributing too much to their maintenance. The people seemed to have been ignorant, until the last eighteen months, of the power of the Court of Session to enforce a due observance of the present law; but from the moment they became aware of that power, from the fear of being dragged into court, those who had the administration of the funds as they now stood had administered them in a way that assured him that even if this Bill were suspended the poor would not only not materially suffer by it, but by this Bill the power of a poor man to carry his appeal to the Court of Session was most materially, and he thought very unjustly, interfered with. The right hon. Baronet had stated as one ground why he would interfere to prevent that appeal was, the risk of low practitioners getting hold of these cases, carrying them to the Court of Session, and
 432 l.; 433 l. l.
 Mr. Rutherfurd  said, he was sorry to oppose the progress of a measure which had for its object the improvement of the laws of Scotland relating to the poor; but after the best and most mature consideration, and looking at the state of the law and the amendments proposed to be made by the Bill, he had found objections to the measure; and others besides himself had also discovered objections to it, which were so serious, so extensive, and so well founded, as well in respect to its details as to its leading enactments, as to render it absolutely imperative on him to oppose its further progress. He was quite aware of the inconvenience which such a step might produce; but he thought that there were far greater inconveniences to **he apprehended if he did not take it, inasmuch as no evils were so serious as to assent to a law which did not satisfactorily adjust the question it was intended to settle, while the discussions which such a measure would give rise to, both in doors and elsewhere, would bring into action a variety of passions, and of conflicting interests, highly detrimental to Scotland. In order that the House might clearly understand the objections he was about to make, he must commence his observations by giving a sketch of the state of the law as it at present stood in Scotland. [The right hon. Member was here interrupted by the noise of conversation at the Bar. When order had
 399 400 401 402 403 404 l. 405 406 407
 Mr. Hastie  did not think the Bill would carry relief to the Scotch poor. On the contrary, it would be more difficult to effect the purposes for which it was intended, than was the case under the existing Poor Law. The mode of assessment pointed out by the Bill was most objectionable; and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would reconsider that part of the measure, and alter it. As the Bill now stood, it was more of a landlords' than of a Poor Law measure.
 Mr. Cumming Bruce  hoped the House would not agree to the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman, as doing so would be equivalent to delaying the Bill for another year.
 Mr. Speaker  intimated that the hon. Gentleman was too late in making this Amendment.
 The Lord Advocate  said, before he proceeded to notice the remarks of his hon. Friend the Member for Leith, to whom he had listened with the greatest attention, as he always did to whatever fell from him, he would notice a circumstance which had been alluded to by the hon. Gentleman opposite, with reference to the occurrences that had lately taken
 414 l. 415 416 in formâ pauperis, in formâ pauperis, in formâ pauperis. 417 418
 Mr. Roche  would not express any opinion on the abstract merits of the question, whether the Bank of Ireland should lend its money or lock it up; but he
 439
 Mr. E. B. Roche  said, that the Bill, as it stood, differed from the statement made on its introduction by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government,
 442
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that whatever difference might exist on the opposite sides of the House with respect to the manner in which the objects contemplated by the Government were affected by the measure, he nevertheless hoped it would be clearly understood, and go forth to the public, that there was on both sides an ardent desire to afford due relief to the suffering and destitute poor in Scotland. His first impression was, that it would be advisable to send the Bill up-stairs to a Select Committee; but he could not withstand the candid, straightforward manner of the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham), whose readiness to accede to any Amendments which might render the measure more perfect, had determined him to vote for the second reading, and to support the intention expressed by the Government of proceeding at once with the Bill in a Committee of the whole House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said,
 440
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought the plan proposed in the Bill would be of great convenience to bankers generally, while it would give the public sufficient security, that the  bonâ fide
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  remarked, that as the Government deposited money in the Bank of Ireland for the purpose of paying a dividend on the public debt, it was but right to take care that the bank should be able to pay that dividend.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was sorry that he was not able to agree to the clause proposed by the hon. Member. It was perfectly true, that by the original charter of the Bank of England, no limit was imposed with respect to lending money on mortgage. The Bank itself, however, made a by-law against so lending money, on the principle that a banker permanently putting his money out of his own trade, did that which, at a time of pressure, was calculated to involve himself in ruin, and all those who placed confidence in him. When the Irish Act, therefore, was framed, its provisions were based, not only upon the charter, but upon the by-laws of the Bank of England. He admitted, that on two recent occasions the Bank of England had been induced to depart from its by-law; but it would be recollected that, on these occasions, strong opposition had been given to any departure from the safe principle which the Bank itself had early adopted. The danger to be apprehended was, that if the Bank of Ireland received the power of lending money indiscriminately, it would be exposed to a pressure from without, which it would not have the same motive as the Bank of England for resisting, and the investment of its capital might lead to great inconvenience in a time of pressure.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  hoped, that the hon. Gentleman would content himself with recording his opinion, without impeding the business of the House. He should be sorry if it were supposed that the Government had proceeded with undue haste in this measure; and he need only remind the House that the Bill was printed so far back as the 7th of May, and every objection which could be urged had been fully considered by the Government.
 Mr. Loch : Sir, before the learned Lord (the Lord Advocate) proceeds to discuss this Bill, I wish to say a few words, because I can supply some information on the subject of the most amazing mis-statements respecting the condition of Sutherlandshire, to which allusion has been made by the hon. Member who has just sat down. I happen to have been acquainted with that county for the last thirty years; and I can say, that there is no set of tenantry in the world, that form so anxious a care to their landlord. I can state, as one fact, that from 1811 to 1833, not one sixpence of rent has been received from that county; but, on the contrary, there has been sent there, for the improvement and benefit of the people, a sum exceeding 60,000 l., l.; 413 1. l. l.
 Dr. Bowring  asked the right hon. Baronet, whether any measures had been taken to provide against the delay of justice which had resulted from the nonholding of the Chancery Court in the Isle of Man?
 Dr. Bowring  begged to draw the attention of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department to the following circumstances, which had reached his knowledge; and as it was a case which involved the liberty of the subject, and which seemed to attach much blame to the functionaries in the Isle of Man, he would, with the leave of the House, and to secure himself against giving any high colouring to the facts he was about to state, read from printed documents the circumstances which had occurred:—On the 9th day of September, 1844, Sarah Coldicott, the wife of Mr. John W. Coldicott, an English stranger, went before James Quirk, esq., high bailiff of Douglas, and made her affidavit, charging her husband with assault and battery, and using threatening language, and stated that she was apprehensive of some serious bodily injury from her husband. The  jurat "That the said John Waters Coldicott be forthwith apprehended and imprisoned in the gaol of Castle Rushen, there to remain until he do enter into a penal bond unto our Sovereign Lady the Queen in the sum of 40 l., l. 394 l. "J. W. Coldicott  v. 395 396 "In consideration of his Excellency the Lieutenant Governor's reference of this petition to me, and it appearing that the petitioner has been in gaol a considerable time, and unable to procure the bail required by my order, dated the 9th of September, 1844, it is hereby ordered that the said order be set aside, and the petitioner discharged from gaol upon his entering into his own bond, at the Roll's Office, to our Sovereign Lady the Queen in the penal sum of 40 l., "J. J. HEYWOOD,  Deemster." "Your petitioner, therefore, prays the most serious consideration of your Excellency, and of the hon. Members of your Excellency's council, of this, to him, most important petition; and that your Excellency's decision may be that your petitioner be forthwith discharged from his imprisonment under the said order of his Honour Deemster Heywood, of the 9th day of September, 1844." "It may be all true that you are an English freeholder; it may be true that you have been
 397 l., "Petitioner considers the latter order on the face of his said petition as not only insulting, but a most glaring injustice, and further violence to his feelings, personal liberty, and character;"
 Mr. Colquhoun  concurred with the hon. Member for Montrose, that nothing was more full of doubt and difficulty than any question relating to the Poor Laws. At the same time, he hardly concurred in the practical conclusion at which the hon. Member had arrived. The hon. Member seemed to entertain sanguine expectations from a Committee up-stairs; but it was not improbable that if one were appointed, there would be as many conflicting opinions in it as there were Members upon it. Besides, he thought that they had quite enough in the shape of reports on the question. He thought that the board of supervision would effect more than the hon. Member for Leith expected; for, besides having the power of giving relief, it would be called on to make reports to the Government, and thus the public exposure which would be insured of any flagrant case of inadequate relief, would have a salutary effect. This simple fact of exposure appeared to him to be a great amendment. He asked the hon. Member for Montrose whether in cases and in parts of Scotland where relief was in adequate, he could seriously propose that the question should be hung over for another year, and that Parliament should not now be called on interfere to put down that horrible state in some disstricts in Scotland, where the relief at present afforded was inadequate; and which inadequate relief might be continued, unless some measure of amendment were passed? He observed that the parochial boards were to be constituted partly of kirk sessions—ecclesiastical courts which the hon. Member for Leith disparaged; and which, after the late convulsion in the Church of Scotland, had been, no one could doubt, deprived of much of their moral influence. At the same time it must be borne in mind, that in an important Report, drawn up by the General Assembly in 1839, the value of the services of kirk sessions was very strongly set forth. With regard to the qualification in landward parishes, he thought, that as it was fixed by the Bill, it was decidedly
 420
 Mr. Masterman  heard with great satisfaction the sentiments of the right hon. Gentleman. He, and others interested in banking, had, on the occasions alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman, expressed their regret that the Bank of England had assumed to itself the power of lending money on security not immediately available.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had been inclined to think, that the better course would be to delay the Bill; but the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department had met all opposition, by offering to give every consideration to the provisions of the Bill in Committtee, and to make it as perfect as possible. He, therefore, could not think of dividing against him on the subject; and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. F. Maule) would not press his proposition to a division.
 Mr. Hume  regarded the whole question as full of difficulty. He saw the danger, on the one hand, of giving greater powers, because they might be abused; and, on the other, he perceived the difficulty of leaving the paupers in a starving condition without the means of getting relief. He could scarcely say that he had had much experience in Scotland himself on this matter; but, judging from the opinions of the borough he represented, from which he had received a full statement, and which, though differing on many points, concurred in the difficulty of legislation, he did not know but that the most prudent course would be to let the Bill lie over till next Session. If a wrong step were taken, incalculable mischief might be done. Should the Bill not be postponed till another Session, he should then recommend that it be sent to a Committee up-stairs. He had once considered the change effected in this country with reference
 419
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  regretted that the Government seemed determined to press this most important Bill this Session. It would have been much better to have sent it to a Select Committee. He denied that this Bill effected any improvement in the management of the poor in Scotland. He defied any hon. Gentleman opposite, from the Lord Advocate downwards, to prove that any benefit would result from it. Without entering into the details of the Bill, he took objection at the threshold to the two administrative bodies proposed by it. The central board was open to most serious objections, as had been pointed out by the hon. and learned Member for Leith. Of all the members of that board none would enjoy the confidence of the country, except the Provosts of Edinburgh and Glasgow. Then, how anomalous were the powers given by the Bill to that board! Nothing could be more disgraceful than the present state of the poor in Scotland; and if the Bill offered
 424
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  concurred in the request not to press the Amendment to a division. He suggested some alteration in the constitution of the board of supervision.
 Mr. P. Borthwick  said, that the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down,
 434
 Mr. Borthwick  said, that he had voted with the Government on this Bill; but if he had done wrong, that was the fault of the hon. Member for Limerick and others, that they had not come to the House to enlighten him.
 Mr. Redington  moved the insertion of the following clause:—
 "And whereas by an Act passed in the Parliament of Ireland in the 21st and 22nd years of His Majesty King George the Third, intituled, 'An Act for establishing a Bank by the name of the Governors and Company of the Bank of Ireland,' it was amongst other matters provided, 'that nothing therein contained should be construed to enable the said corporation, or any person or persons on their behalf, to lend or advance any sum or sums, to be secured by mortgage or sale of lands, tenements, or hereditaments redeemable, anything therein to the contrary notwithstanding;' and whereas such provision is not contained in any Act establishing or regulating other banks of issue in this realm, and it is expedient that the same should be repealed; be it therefore enacted, that the same shall be and is hereby fully repealed."
 Mr. Redington , in reply, said he did not see why a restriction should be imposed on the Bank of Ireland, to which the provincial banks were not liable. He did not want the Bank of Ireland to be allowed to lend money for the purpose of draining lands; but to be allowed to exercise the same discretion which was left to every other bank in the kingdom. He should divide the House upon the clause.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  said, he felt himself compelled to attend the House while the present measure was before it. Although he knew how ineffectual any remonstrance on his part would be, when directed against a Bill brought forward by the Government, still he could scarcely divest himself of the obligation which he felt, as an Irish Member, to resist bad measures. He had to complain that due notice of this measure had not been given to the people of Ireland. It was only last Saturday, that the Directors of the Bank of Ireland waited on him, and informed
 441
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  regretted that he had been misled as to the proper time of making the Motion. He would then move that the debate be adjourned for a fortnight, to allow time for the Irish people to consider the measure.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  said, that if the state of the poor in Scotland was such as had been represented, the administration of the law could not be left in worse hands than those at present entrusted with it. There had been great cruelty and tyranny practised, and unpardonable neglect in providing what was necessary. In order that they might know what law ought to be applied to Scotland, they should know what was the real condition of the poor in a great part of that country. Now, a great part had been subjected to a system the most barbarous for exterminating the poor holders of land, and for converting the land into sheepwalks, He wanted to know the reason why such things occurred, and whether there was anything in the new law which would check or remedy them? A statement had lately appeared upon very good authority on this subject in  The Times "These eighteen families, cousisting of ninety-two individuals, supported themselves in comparative comfort without a pauper amongst them; that they owed no rent, and were ready to pay as much as any one would give for the land, which they and their forefathers had occupied for centuries, but which, it seems, is now to be turned into a sheep-walk." "Behind the church, in the churchyard, a long kind of booth was erected, the roof formed of tarpauling stretched over poles, the sides closed in with horsecloths, rugs, blankets, and plaids. On inquiry I found that this was the refuge of the Glencalvie people. They had
 409 l. l. "Some of my friends have adopted the
 410 "These expatriated victims became the germ I of a debased and helpless population, and thus the clearance system not only operates on those who are the immediate objects of it, but on the whole surface of society, diffusing general pauperism and mendicancy in one class, and a heartless apathy and indifference in others." "In the parish of Lairg, Sutherlandshire, the highest amount given to puapers on the roll is 10s. per year, the lowest 2s. 6 d. The Times "The road from Lairg to Tongue is about forty miles. The Glens were formerly peopled; all have been cleared out. In that forty miles of country I did not see six houses nor six people; all have been cleared out; there was scarcely a tree or a stone wall or anything to see on all sides, as far as the eye could reach, but the barren heath, over which sheep and lambs were running about." "A man in a dying state was sent in a cart to Langbourn, where he was supposed to have a legal claim. He died before reaching that place; his body was returned to Glasgow, with a letter from the kirk treasurer, desiring no more to be sent in that state, but that be would pay the expenses of interment." "Hundreds of persons die annually in Glasgow
 411 "The consideration," he said, "is not what the poor require, but what is the smallest practicable amount of relief which they can possibly be obliged to give." d. s. d. d. s. d. d. "Vast districts, formerly thickly peopled, but now barren wilds, without a hut, or a tree, or a cottage, or a wall, or any sign whatever of human habitation and industry often for twenty miles. There is no independent middle class to speak out." J. Graham: J. Graham: 412 J. Graham:
 Sir J. Graham  said, that the delay complained of arose entirely from the serious illness of the Lieutenant Governor
 Sir J. Graham  said, the hon. and learned Member had made rather a long statement; and, if he was not mistaken, had
 398
 Sir J. Graham  said, that as at present advised, no alteration could be assented to in the constitution of the board.
 Sir J. Graham  said: Sir, after the very strong opinion the hon. Gentleman has expressed with regard to this Bill, I confess I am surprised that he should not have concluded with some substantive Motion against it; because if it is a Bill for the heritors and lairds, and not for the poor, he, as a Scotch Member, has not done his duty in not having proposed its rejection. But, Sir, this subject has been long under the consideration of the Legislature. During nearly two years the Government and the Legislature have had this subject before them. The Royal Commission, whose Report is now on the Table of the House, was issued in 1843. Of course the appointment of that Commission raised expectations among the poor of Scotland, who had been in a state of extreme misery, if not of oppression. That Report has been on the Table of the House since the commencement of the Session, and the Government have given it their fullest attention. The hon. Member for Montrose, who has carefully applied himself to the whole of the evidence, admits that he labours under some doubts on the subject of the remedy
 425 426 427 428 429 Laughter. 430 431
 Sir J. Graham  joined in expressing a hope that the right hon. Gentleman would not press his Amendment. He (Sir J. Graham) proposed Monday se'nnight for going into Committee, and, in the mean time, Her Majesty's Government would take into consideration the several suggestions which had been made, and, to facilitate their due consideration, he would recommend that hon. Gentleman should have their Amendments printed and laid on the Table of the House. He thought
 437
 Sir J. Graham  said, that it was intended that the amount of the salaries should be fixed by the Lords of the Treasury; but, if it was so wished, the amount might be inserted in Committee.
 Mr. W. Miles  said, that after all that the House and the country had heard recently of the poverty, misery, and of the deaths even, resulting from starvation in Scotland, it would be bad indeed if the Legislature were to suffer the Session to pass without providing some remedy for those evils. He, therefore, recommended hon. Members not to appear to throw obstacles in the way, or to obstruct the progress of the measure. On the contrary, let them all endeavour to render it as perfect as the circumstances would admit of, and not, by persisting in sending it before a Select Committee, either prevent it from passing into a law during the present year, or else protract the Session, in order to complete it, to September.
 Sir W. Somerville  was understood to ask whether public companies might be allowed, as was the case in Scotland, to place large sums of money, ordered by Parliament, in any bank established in Ireland by Act of Parliament or Royal Charter?
 Viscount Bernard  protested against the statements of hon. Gentlemen opposite, that the feeling of Ireland was against the Bill. He had not received a single letter in opposition to the Bill, nor had he heard a single word against it. For him self he approved cordially of the principles of the Bill.
 Mr. Vernon Smith  did not wish to pursue the argument suggested by his hon. Friend, because he deemed it to be inopportune; but he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) whether by allowing this Resolution to pass now, for the purpose of inserting the clauses, it would prevent any hon. Member hereafter proposing that the money should be taken from another source.
 Lord J. Russell  observed, that if the hon. Member for Limerick wished for a farther opportunity of explanation, he might easily find it hereafter. When the House had resolved itself into the Committee, it was clear that the hon. Member would have a right to be heard.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that he did not wish to discuss the subject at present; but to ask the right hon. Home Secretary whether, on Monday, he would give explanations upon two points; first, not what was to be done with the 100,000 l., l.
 Mr. Williams , though in general anxious to prevent the expenditure of public money, had no objection, in this instance, to the proposed grant. He only wished to know, why the second sum had been raised to 21,000 l., l.
 Mr. Williams  would not offer any objection to the principle of the Bill—that was not his intention. No doubt the right hon. Gentleman could explain the reason why 3,000 l.
 Mr. V. Smith  considered the measure as a mere experiment. From all he had heard in the course of the debates upon this measure, he thought that there was some uncertainty as to whether they were not establishing receptacles for rebellion, and schools for sedition, instead of institutions such as were intended. Neither could he tell for whom these Colleges were designed; at one time it was said they were for what was commonly called the upper classes, and at another for the middling classes. [Mr.  Wyse:
 Sir D. Norreys  said, he had accepted this measure with great pleasure, believing that the Government were about to introduce a system of education into Ireland which, he hoped, would form a precedent for this and other countries, and according to which talent alone was to be honoured. But now he should wish to know whether the Government still adhered to the principle that no religious test should be required, either directly or indirectly, from the students, principals, and professors?
 Mr. Acland  asked, whether the right hon. Baronet meant that these halls proposed to be constituted, would be prevented from having a distinct religious character?
 Mr. Williams  could not help expressing his regret that the Government had departed from the sum which they had originally fixed upon for the maintenance of these Colleges. Considering that the large grant of 100,000 l. l.
 Sir Thomas Acland  said, he thought it right to express a hope that the Bill would not leave that House without some security being given in it, that the professors to whom the education of the youth of Ireland were
 500 l., l.
 Mr. Bernal  said, he would take that opportunity of asking the right hon. Baronet a question with reference to the better regulation of the medical profession. Much excitement prevailed throughout the country, with reference to the clause introduced affecting the right of chemists and druggists to dispense medicine. A great many petitions had been presented on the subject; and he thought it would facilitate the object of the right hon. Gentleman, if he would state whether any other clause was to be introduced involving the interests of the class to whom he alluded.
 Lord J. Russell  thought it would be very hard if his hon. and gallant Friend should be precluded from addressing the House because he replied to an observation of the gallant Admiral opposite on a different subject. He should move, if necessary, that the other Orders of the Day be read, and then his hon. and gallant Friend would be in order; but he hoped his hon. and gallant Friend would be allowed to address the House.
 Mr. Rice  hoped, that after the Report referred to by the gallant Officer who had just sat down, the Government would be prepared to state distinctly the course they meant to pursue. It had been said that before any nation could make a successful attack on this country it must possess the supremacy of the ocean; but the opinion of the Prince de Joinville, as expressed in his pamphlet was, that France never had, and did not hope to possess, the supremacy of the ocean. It was the opinion of the Prince, and for that opinion he had given many good reasons, that means for attacking the British coast could be found, when there was an inferior French force in the Channel. The port of Dunkirk was now in admirable condition; the harbours of Calais and Boulogne had been materially improved and enlarged; and Cherbourg was now one of the finest harbours on the coast. He hoped they would hear from Her Majesty's Government
 515
 Colonel T. Wood  felt bound to say, that the amount of troops we had to defend the country in case of war was not adequate. When it was considered what enormous military power was given to France by the fortifications at Paris, and that that country could, at a short notice, have 80,000 men at Boulogne, it behoved the Government to see that our constitutional force of the militia was not suffered to relapse into complete desuetude.
 Mr. Williams  considered that the House had a right to know the names of those persons who received the public money; and he was of opinion that those who had an objection to the publication of their names should not accept it. He suggested a classification of the sums paid, and the
 530
 Captain Boldero  said, the hon. and gallant Officer contemplated the possibility of attacks being made on various points of our coast; but he forgot or overlooked the fact, that before an enemy could conduct those operations with success, it was necessary that such enemy should have the absolute supremacy of the ocean. He could assure the hon. and gallant Officer that the Master General of the Ordnance had taken means to strengthen our forts, and
 513 514
 Lord Worsley  said, that the public ought to be satisfied that responsible trustees were appointed, and that those trustees were proper parties; and no Motion made to the effect of appointing others, unless every guarantee that the money was properly bestowed, was given to the public.
 Mr. Craven Berkeley  proceeded, in accordance with his Motion, to call the attention of the House to the changes proposed to be made in the clothing and remount fund of the two regiments of Life Guards, by a warrant dated March 14, 1845, signed by the Secretary at War, which, he contended,
 531
 Captain Harris  thought the hon. and gallant Member (Sir C. Napier) had made out a case, however imprudent it might be to lay bare our weak points. A due proportion ought to be kept up between our Navy and defences, and the available power of France. He rejoiced that the question of harbours of refuge was to be taken up by the Government, and expense ought not to stand in the way.
 Mr. Sidney Herbert  said, that the Board of General Officers went into a full inquiry into the case of the Horse Guards, and they made a very voluminous report. It certainly did appear that there was a considerable sum in arrear owing from the Horse Guards. With respect to the alterations mentioned by the hon. and gallant Officer, in regard to the clothing of the regiment, that was a subject which he would not go into, because a great difference of opinion existed upon it. He was perfectly satisfied that the arrangement made was one quite compatible with the comfort and efficiency of the troops. He sincerely believed that no unnecessary expense would be incurred for these troops; and that the public property was expended with a due regard both to the efficiency of the troops and to public economy. The Horse Guards had incurred considerable expense with a view to put themselves upon a footing with the Life Guards. He was quite willing to believe that the hon. and gallant Officer was actuated by public motives in bringing forward this question; but he was contented to rest his judgment on the opinion of those military officers who had paid proper attention to the subject. The change had been made under the highest military authorities; and he hoped, therefore, that the hon. and gallant Officer would not carry into execution his threat.
 Lord J. Manners , for his own part was ready to move that the hon. Member for Limerick do proceed.
 Lord John Russell  observed that when he had asked the right hon. Baronet for an explanation of the course to be pursued, it was with a view that other Members who were not satisfied with the application of the amount demanded, and the House generally, should take into consideration whether it would be better to enter into the question now, or to reserve their observations to a future period.
 Mr. Hindley  moved for a return of the names of the persons receiving the allowance granted to Protestant Dissenting Ministers in England, with the names of the trustees administering the same. When he had presented, on the late Maynooth discussion, so many petitions from
 529 Cries of from, the Ministerial bench.
 Mr. Speaker  said, the hon. Member had lost his opportunity, having already spoken.
 Mr. Speaker  said, that it was clear that the hon. Member for Limerick, having spoken once, was not entitled to speak again except in explanation, or by the indulgence of the House. That indulgence could only be obtained by the full concurrence of all the Members present; and the hon. Member for Limerick having been called to order by the hon. Baronet the Member for Oxford, had done quite right in resuming his seat.
 Mr. Speaker  said, that the authors of the Bill had no power to insert such clauses as were necessary in this Bill, unless they were previously instructed by a Committee of the House. But when the Bill itself was in Committee, then it would be competent for the Committee to reject the clauses altogether, or to reduce the amount; but they could not charge the sum upon any other public fund.
 Mr. C. Wood  impressed on the Government the necessity of losing no time as to this question. He hoped the Session would not be suffered to expire without a vote being taken for commencing these works at Dover, or at one of the places named.
 Mr. Cardwell  opposed the Motion. The hon. Member had made a similar Motion before, and the House had refused, except in a modified form. In that form he had no objection to grant it them. The facts of the case were these: — A small grant of 1,700 l. l.
 Sir Henry Winston Barron  brought forward the Motion of which he had given notice, for calling the attention of Her Majesty's Government, on the Order of the Day being read for going into Committee of Supply, to the neglected state of the Irish fisheries. He said he thought he could show that the Board of Works in Ireland were not doing their duty—that they had grossly violated the Act of Parliament, in not fulfilling the duties entrusted to them by the Legislature, with reference to the fisheries in Ireland. The proper management and encouragement of the fisheries was a subject of most vital importance to a large class of the people of Ireland. The present Act was in force for three years; and yet within that period, out of 160 or 170 rivers, in which the Board of Works were to fix the boundaries between the fresh water and salt water, they had only arranged these bounds in fifteen rivers, eight of which were in the county of Kerry. In the next place, he had to complain that they had not complied with the provision of the Act, which required them to lay Reports before that House within three weeks of the meeting of Parliament in each year. Instead of doing so, their first Report in 1843 was not laid on the Table of the House until May; their second Report, in 1844, not until July; and their third Report, for the present year, had been only made within the last fortnight, and had been only five days in the hands of Members. The third complaint which he had to make of the Board was, that when a number of gentlemen interested in the success of the Irish fisheries wished the Board to convene a meeting in Dublin last winter, as they were required to do by the Act, the Commissioners refused, but said they would take any written statement which might be sent to them into their consideration. Such a document was accordingly prepared; but no further notice appeared to have been taken of it. The next omission of which he complained was, that they had not made such statistical Returns as should appear practical to them,
 502 l. l. 503
 Sir H. W. Barron  rose to order. The question of form having been disposed of, after what had fallen from the hon. Baronet the Member for Oxford, the hon. Member for Limerick remained in possession of the House. No other Member had, therefore, a right to interpose, especially to prevent an explanation.
 Sir H. W. Barron  said, it was of the last importance that a Bill of that description,
 499
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he should object to giving returns of this kind, referring to a class of persons in a respectable station of society, and yet having small means.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, a rumour had prevailed recently in the city, respecting which he should wish to ask the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury a question. The rumour was, that the Court of Spain had recently sent in a claim to the Government to have the sugars produced in its colonies of Cuba and Porto Rico admitted to consumption in this country at the same scale of duties as those imposed on the produce of the most favoured nations, founding their claim upon Treaties actually in existence. He would strictly guard himself against offering at that moment any opinion with respect to the validity of the claim; but he wished to know whether it had been made by the Spanish Government?
 Dr. Bowring  begged to ask
 477
 Dr. Bowring  said, he hoped the Government would give them some information on the subject.
 Mr. Colquhoun  wished to ask his right hon. Friend a question with respect to an addition which he purposed making to the proposed Bill; but before he did so, he wished to make a few remarks upon the speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down. That hon. Gentleman had said it was his most earnest desire to see a College established in the town which he represented, yet he had allowed that House to go on for weeks discussing the present
 485
 Mr. Roebuck  quite agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Manchester, that this question ought not to be passed over as a mere formal vote. It could not be doubted that this, of all others, was the most proper time for discussing the principle of the measure. The hon. Member for Manchester said that he was against endowing any body of men for the purpose of instruction. Education was one of the means of promoting good actions, and of leading men to practise virtue. Administration of justice was another means. There were institutions for both purposes, and he was willing to endow
 489 W. S. O'Brien; 490 491
 Mr. Roebuck  did not altogether agree with the right hon. Baronet as to the ineligibility of a Committee of Inquiry in that House.
 Mr. Roebuck  wished to know whether, from circumstances which had lately come before the Home Secretary, that right hon. Gentleman was of opinion that the state of the law in the Channel Islands called for inquiry; and, if so, what he, as the adviser of Her Majesty, having power, not only of inquiry, but of legislation, proposed to do?
 Mr. Hume  said, that the right hon. Baronet had not answered one part of the question, and therefore, he would put another question. He wished distinctly to know whether official information had come under the notice of the Government that any naval officer belonging to Her Majesty's service, or any British subject had been engaged in the Slave Trade?
 Mr. Forster  said, he had a question to put to the right hon. Baronet, and a very few words would explain the nature and object of it. It referred to a petition he presented about a week ago, which had been printed and circulated with the Votes, from a large body of the most eminent merchants and manufacturers engaged in British trade to Brazil, Cuba, and Africa, complaining of certain charges against English merchants and capitalists contained in a Message Mr. President Tyler had sent to Congress, and which had received the implied sanction of the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government, and praying "the protection of the House against imputations so undeserved and so dishonourable to them and to the honour of their country." The Message arrived in this country in the middle of March. Shortly afterwards his hon. Friend the Member for Leeds put a question to the right hon. Baronet
 479
 Mr. Forster  said, the right hon. Baronet had referred to Papers furnished to the President of the United States by Mr. Wise, the American Minister in Brazil, upon the authority of which the charges in question were made. He (Mr. Forster) held copies of these Papers in his hand; and to show the spirit in which they had been got up, and the degree of credit due to them, he need only inform the House, that amongst overcharges equally well founded, was one charging British naval officers with abetting and conniving at the Slave Trade, while cruising on the Coast of Africa for the suppression of that traffic. They were accused of favouring the shipment of slaves to be afterwards captured by themselves, that they might claim the bounty or head money. This was sufficient to show the gross falsehood and absurdity of charges issuing from such a source.
 Mr. P. Borthwick  said, he voted for the granting of this large sum of money
 498
 Mr. Bernal Osborne  wished to recall the attention of the House from the personal to the national matter before it. What had just occurred seemed a bad example of the supposed advantages of education. To descend to such matters, and to bandy taunts, was not a very becoming or useful mode of conducting the business of the country. It appeared to him that his hon. Friend below him (Mr. S. O'Brien), from not having recently been in the habit of addressing the House, had a little overshot himself. He (Mr. B. Osborne) concurred
 492
 Mr. Bernal Osborne  had no objection to second the Motion of the noble Member for Newark, excepting that he did not wish the personal part of the discussion to be continued. If these disagreeable matters consumed so much time, what would be left for the transaction of necessary and important business? He should have put on the Paper a Motion against taking the money out of the Consolidated Fund; but he had given way to the hon. and learned Member for Cambridge (Mr. Law), who seemed to have changed his mind, and as was said of the month of March, had "come in like a lion, and gone out like a lamb." That hon. and learned Member
 493
 Mr. Sheil  said, there were two questions he wished to ask the Government. He would put them now; but the Government might postpone the answer, and perhaps it would be better they should; the questions being of very high importance, and upon points which were exciting the greatest interest in Ireland. The first question was this:—Has Government determined to reserve to the Crown the appointment of the professors? The second question was this:—Has the Government determined there should be no stipend awarded to a chaplain — Protestant or Catholic — entrusted in these Colleges either with the administration of divine service, or with the imparting religious instruction?
 Mr. Sheil  thought that great credit was due to his hon. Friend for having directed public attention to another mode of improving the condition of Ireland. He admitted that Sir John Burgoyne was a most meritorious public officer; but he had so many matters to attend to in the various public departments with which he was connected, that it was impossible that he could attend to them all. He most strongly recommended the building of piers as being most essential to the well-being
 505
 Mr. Milner Gibson  felt it his duty, as a Member of the House of Commons, to protest against the language used by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, in calling this a mere formal stage of the Bill. On the contrary, he (Mr. Gibson) considered it the most important stage of the measure. It was, especially, that stage in which he,
 486 487 "That he was a gentleman who well remembered that he had a salary to receive, but only forgot that he had a duty to perform." 488
 Mr. Milner Gibson  said, that the name of the  Agnes
 Mr. Wyse  said, he had all along objected to giving these institutions the character of Universities, either in the style of education afforded in them, or in the power of conferring degrees. What he wished was, to have a system of education sufficient to qualify persons for the ordinary avocations of life, and for scientific pursuits; such as would enable them to become civil engineers, for instance. He regretted that the Government had not adopted his suggestions to a greater extent, because he believed that they would have been productive of much more benefit. He was, however, pleased with the instalment brought forward, trusting that on a future occasion the measure would be more extended.
 Mr. Wyse  could bear testimony to many of the observations of his hon. Colleague as to the inefficiency of the Board of Public Works with respect to the public fisheries. He thought that a separate Board should be formed to attend solely to the fisheries. He was sorry that the recent Act had not been carried so extensively as it ought to have been into operation: he hoped that did not arise from any lukewarmness on the part of the Government. He entirely agreed with his right hon. Friend as to the advantage of the loan system, in contradistinction to a bounty system. He believed that such a system would be productive of the greatest good to a large class of persons.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien , in continuation, would save the Chairman the trouble of deciding the point by abandoning the expression; and he would leave the House to judge how far his vanity had been disappointed. When he ceased to attend in his place, he enjoyed the friendship of a greater number of Gentlemen than at any former period of his life; he might add, that there were then some circumstances attending his career that were personally exceedingly gratifying. He felt no individual animosities—not even towards the hon. Member for Bath, and was ready at that moment to take his hand. He had not represented him fairly, when he said that either in Conciliation Hall or elsewhere he (Mr. S. O'Brien) had made a vow never to attend in his place in the House; the language he had used in public and in private was, that he would not attend until he thought that by doing so he could effect some good for his country. If any opportunity had arisen during the last two years, he was ready to have returned at twenty-four hours' notice. He had expressed the opinion, both here and elsewhere, that an Irish Member could better promote the interests of his country by confining his labours to Ireland, than by giving his presence in the House of Commons. As to the persons with whom he was in the habit of associating in Ireland, the hon. Member for Bath had thought fit to designate Conciliation Hall a scene of corruption; and he had applied terms at least equally offensive, but which he (Mr. S. O'Brien) had forgotten, to those who attended its meetings. Having attended those meetings for more than a year and a half, he would tell the hon. Member for Bath that he had never witnessed any proceeding that was not perfectly honourable to the parties concerned, particularly with reference to the humbler classes of his countrymen. So far from being ashamed of having participated in those scenes of supposed corruption, he was proud to be able to contrast Conciliation Hall with that House, in calmness and freedom from
 495
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien : I really do most unfeignedly apologize to the House for the necessity under which the hon. and learned Member for Bath has laid me, of entering into topics of a personal nature; but I would remind the House, as they seem to take pride in the denomination of "English Gentlemen," that they have been listening, not only with content but with approbation to invective in the most unmeasured terms, continued for nearly a quarter of an hour, and directed against my person alone. I believe I am now in order in repeating, and I will repeat, that I have had the satisfaction of witnessing to-night the delivery of the accumulated venom of three months' concoction. About three months since, the hon. and learned Member for Bath thought proper, in my absence, to make an attack upon me in common with the seceding Irish Members; and I took the liberty of telling him from Conciliation Hall, that I treated his insinuations with contempt. I had no elaborately prepared invective with which to reply to the hon. and learned Member. It is my custom in this House to maintain, so far as I am able, the character of a gentleman, without offending any one; I trust I have never shrunk from the duty of exposing a bad measure or a bad principle, and I trust I never shall; but I do not pride myself, and I hope I never may, in being able to accumulate sentence upon sentence that would give pain to any man. The hon. and learned Member, however, has utterly failed in giving pain to any one except his unfortunate self; I treat his attack with unutterable contempt, and accompany that contempt with my intense pity.
 Mr. W. Smith O'Brien  rose to offer no opposition to the Motion for the Speaker leaving the Chair; but he was anxious to submit to the Government, by way of friendly suggestion, and in favour of the Bill, what he thought he might state to be the opinion of the people of Ireland upon this subject. They were unanimous in considering the subject of the education of the people of Ireland to be well worthy the attention of the Legislature. They were desirous that a portion of the Irish revenue should be appropriated to that purpose. But it remained to be considered whether this institution should be founded upon the principle of giving a united education or a separate education. As to the preference to be given on either side, it was not open to him to speak, because he had always avowed himself an advocate of the system of mixed education. The proposed plan by Her Majesty's Government had been submitted to the Roman Catholic bishops, and they had suggested several modifications which, he might say, had received the concurrence, in substance, of a very large portion of the Catholic people in Ireland. There was one point which he believed the public opinion in Ireland, and to a great extent the public opinion in England, was entirely agreed upon, namely, that means of religious instruction ought to be provided for in this Bill. Upon that point they felt—and he believed most justly—that the present Bill was defective. How far the Amendments intended to be introduced by the right hon. Gentleman (Sir James Graham) would meet that objection, and remedy that defect, of course he could not tell. But the early day appointed for the Committee on the Bill would render it utterly impossible for the public in Ireland to form a judgment upon it. He, however, would fairly warn the Government, that if they did not bring forward a measure which would be on this
 483 484
 Mr. S. O'Brien , considering the personal character of the speech just delivered, hoped to be allowed to say a few words. The House had just witnessed the discharge of the accumulated venom of three months.
 Mr. S. Crawford  said, he should protest on public grounds to any persons receiving public money whose names were concealed; and more especially that those who were in favour of the voluntary principle should receive State pay.
 Mr. S. Crawford  said, he had no recollection of the statement made by his hon. Friend. In 1837, he distinctly recollected that he voted against the grant.
 Sir C. Napier : I wish to correct a statement of the gallant Officer the Clerk of the Ordnance. He must have misunderstood me; for I am sure he did not intend to misrepresent me. He stated that I ridiculed the fortification of Portsmouth,
 532 l.
 Sir Charles Napier  said, it would be much better that parents, before sending their sons into the Navy, should know that no pensions would be given for any wound
 501
 Sir C. Napier  having risen to bring forward the subject of the defences of the naval forts and arsenals,
 Sir C. Napier  said, he did not mean to found any Motion on the subject as to which he had given notice; but he would proceed shortly to call the attention of the House to the state of the naval forts and arsenals, and the harbours for the protection of the mercantile marine. This subject was one on the importance of which he need not dwell; and he found that in the year 1796 Mr. Pitt had directed the attention of Parliament to it, and strongly pressed Parliament to
 506 "That it appears to this House, that to provide effectually for securing His Majesty's dockyards at Portsmouth and Plymouth, by a permanent system of fortification, founded on the most economical principles, and requiring the smallest number of troops possible to answer the purpose of such security, is an essential object for the safety of the State, intimately connected with the general defence of the kingdom, and necessary for enabling the fleet to act with full vigour and effect, for the protection of commerce, the support of our distant possessions, and the prosecution of offensive operations in any war in which the nation may hereafter be engaged..… And, in order to judge of its necessity towards that great object, he should attempt, but with much pain, to bring back the recollection of the House to the unfortunate and calamitous situation to which we were exposed in the late war, much in consequence of our want of those fortifications which it was the aim of the present question to provide. A considerable part of our fleet was confined to our ports, in order to protect our dockyards; and thus we were obliged to do what Great Britain had never done before—carry on a mere defensive war; a war in which, as in every other war merely defensive, we were under the necessity of wasting our resources, and impairing our strength, without any prospect of benefiting ourselves but at the loss of a great and valuable part of our possessions, and which at last was terminated by a necessary peace." 507 
 
 FRENCH STEAMERS. 
 20 frigates 8,100 
 6 corvettes 1,920 
 14 ditto 3,080 
 39 small vessels 5,056 
 18,156 
 
 BUILDING. 
 13 frigates 6,120 
 10 corvettes, 220 2,200 
 8,320 
 18,156 
 26,476 
 
 ENGLISH STEAMERS. 
 3 steam frigates 4,900 
 23 steam ships 6,218 
 10 small steamers 875 
 18 packets 3,200 
 8 small steamers before 1st January, 1832 800 
 15,993 
 8 steam frigates building 4,506 
 6 steam ships 2,485 
 5 smaller vessels 860 
 7,851 
 7 not in Return 990 
 8,841 Gomer, Terrible, Gomer 508 
 
 SAILING VESSELS AFLOAT. 
 23 ships of the line of all classes 
 30 frigates 
 19 war corvettes 
 3 corvettes avisos 
 26 brigs of war 
 21 ditto avisos 
 9 gun brigs 
 47 galiots, cutters, luggers, &c. 
 16 corvettes transports 
 35 lighters 
 229 
 
 SAILING VESSELS IN DOCK. 
 23 ships of war of different ranks, 17–24 parts finished 
 20 frigates (of which 5 were placed on the stocks, in 1845), at 13 47–24 parts 
 3 corvettes of war, at 5 33–24 parts 
 2 galiots at 18–24 parts 
 48 ships 
 
 STEAMERS AFLOAT. 
 4 frigates, of which 1 of 540 horse power, and 3 of 450 horse power 
 8 corvettes of which 1 of 320 horse power and 7 of 220 horse power 
 41 steamers of 160 horse power, and under 
 53 
 
 STEAMERS ON THE STOCKS. 
 4 frigates, 1 of 640, 1 of 540, and 1 of 450 horse power, at 11–24 finished 
 10 corvettes, of which 5 of 320, and 5 of 220 horse power, and nearly 5–24 finished 
 8 steamers of 160 horse power, and under, of which upwards of 1–24 finished 
 22 "For the service of the year 1846, and as a basis for the expense of the fleet, the Minister proposes to keep 170 ships of different sizes in a state of armament, namely:— 
 
 8 ships of the line of different classes 
 12 frigates, ditto 
 12 corvettes of war, ditto 
 1 corvette aviso 
 25 brigs of war 
 30 gun brigs, galiots, cutters, &c. 
 20 transports 
 62 steamers, of which 3 are of 540 and 450, 3 of 320, 10 of 220, 23 of 160, and 23 of 120 and under 
 170 armed ships of all kinds 509 
 
 IN COMMISSION DE RADE. 
 4 ships of war 
 4 frigates 
 4 corvettes 
 12 
 
 IN COMMISSION DE PORT. 
 4 ships of war 
 4 frigates 
 2 war corvettes 
 2 corvettes  de chargé 
 6 steamers 
 18 vessels 510 en barbette, 511 512
 Sir G. Cockburn  said, a question had been asked of him the other night, by the hon. and gallant Officer opposite (Sir Charles Napier), as to whether the Admiralty were prepared to alter their former order regulating the granting of pensions to wounded officers. He thought it right, in explanation of the answer which he had given on that occasion, to add, that the Government always reserved to themselves the right of recommending to Her Majesty to grant pensions in extraordinary cases of good conduct or otherwise, even where the wound was not of a nature to cause the loss of a limb. He thought this explanation necessary, lest it should be supposed, that whenever an officer was wounded, he would be entitled to an annual pension.
 Sir James Graham  said, there was a special provision in the Apothecaries Act, limiting the power of chemists and druggists with respect to dispensing medicine; and as the Bill which he had introduced would repeal that Act, he intended to place them, under the new Bill, in precisely the same position which they occupied under the existing law.
 Sir James Graham  said, that the words he proposed to insert in the Bill were for the purpose of removing all doubt with respect to the operation of this Act, either as it regarded the terms of incorporation or the by-laws. It would be quite open to the governing body to make any regulation with respect to the students attending divine worship.
 Sir James Graham  said, his impression was, that in a Bill of this description it was not possible to insert clauses which made a charge on the Consolidated Fund without a previous Resolution in a Committee of the whole House. But this did not preclude any Gentleman from rejecting the clause when the Bill itself was considered in Committee. As he understood the matter, the only limit was that no larger charge could be proposed. A less sum might be proposed, or the clause might be objected to altogether, or, as he understood, it might be proposed to fix the charge upon any other source.
 Sir James Graham  moved that the House should resolve into a Committee, for the purpose of passing a Resolution on which to found a grant necessary to the formation of Colleges in Ireland. He proposed that the Vote should be taken  pro formâ,
 Sir James Graham  said, that circumstances had come to his knowledge with respect to the administration of justice in the Channel Islands, which induced him to think that some inquiry should be instituted. He was not, however, disposed to assent to the form of inquiry proposed by the hon. and learned Member, of a Committee of Inquiry of that House. He had thought it, however, his duty to address a letter officially to the President of the Council, recommending that the pleasure of Her Majesty in Council should be taken whether a Commission of Inquiry might not be issued into the mode of the administration of the criminal law in the Channel Islands, and of the constitution of the tribunals by which that law was administered.
 Sir J. Graham  should be ready to give the reason for the change on Monday.
 Sir J. Graham  rejoiced in the prospect of the approbation of the noble Lord. On Monday, he should have great pleasure, on bringing up the Report, in giving the required explanation upon the two points
 496 l., l.
 Sir James Graham , in Committee, moved the following Resolution:—
 "That it is the opinion of this Committee, That a sum, not exceeding 100,000 l. l.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that if the Speaker were now allowed to leave the Chair, any Member could speak in the Committee just as often as he liked, and the House liked to hear him.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that no religious test would be required from any principal, professor, or student; and the principle of the measure remained unchanged in that respect.
 Sir J. Graham  observed, that it had been stated in the course of a discussion on the subject on a former evening, that the additional sum was to make provision for prizes and exhibitions; and it was then a generally expressed opinion, that such a provision would be most advantageous.
 Sir J. Graham  said, the noble Lord opposite had already put the former question to him; and he had undertaken to give an answer to it on Monday. He was prepared to answer the question then; but he thought it would be better to answer both the one and the other on the day he had named.
 Sir J. Graham  had no difficulty in saying that everything in reference to the halls was without the Colleges, and what was done as to the halls would depend on the will of their founders. These halls would not be aided, directly or indirectly, by the public money.
 Sir James Graham  said, he had before announced that he would enter fully into the subject on Monday. He would, however, beg to remind the hon. Gentleman, that this country and Scotland were very differently circumstanced from Ireland in this respect; as the Colleges proposed to be erected in the latter country would be new institutions, giving but little inducements to private parties to contribute towards their success.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, that the hon. Member for Limerick had stated that the hon. and learned Member for Bath was uttering the accumulated venom of three months. That was not a vindication, but an attack.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  rose again to order. He wished to ask the Chairman whether any Member could express unutterable
 494 Peals of laughter.
 Sir R. H. Inglis : I rise to order. I am sure the House will listen to any explanation or any vindication from the hon. Member who has been attacked; but I believe the House will not permit him, when professing to vindicate himself, to attack the hon. and learned Member whose speech we have just heard. Other opportunities will arise, when the hon. Member may give such answers as he thinks fit; but at present he is limited to the vindication of himself, and cannot make a second speech for the purpose of attacking any one else.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he had not the slightest information on the subject.
 Sir R. Peel  then read the extract from the document which had been referred to, omitting, however, to mention the names of the broker and the merchant.
 Sir R. Peel  answered, that he had expressed at that time his opinion that it was unfortunate the President of the United States should have declared publicly to Congress that the state of the apprentices in the West Indies was as bad as that of the African slave; and he (Sir Robert Peel) then stated, if the President wished to appoint a Commission of Inquiry into that matter, every facility should be given for the investigation. He had at the same time also stated that he could not concur in the general allegations of the President's Message, and had expressed his belief that some part of it was founded in error. But at the same time, these documents
 481
 Sir R. Peel  said, the question of the hon. Member had been put to him some weeks since by an hon. Member opposite, who had raised an inquiry as to certain allegations contained in the President's recent Message to Congress, wherein it was stated that certain British subjects carried on a trade in slaves at Rio and on the Coast of Africa. It was also therein stated that certain subjects of the Queen were concerned in the Slave Trade in other countries. He (Sir R. Peel) had then stated that he was not prepared to admit or to deny the facts averred; but that if the case was as asserted, the law applicable to such offences should be resorted to and applied. The President's Message was accompanied by several documents, which, as the hon. Member who asked the question was acquainted with them, he should refer to. Those documents stated that three vessels were fitted out as slavers; their
 480 Agnes, Montevideo, Sea Nymph.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that a communication had reached the Government from the Spanish Minister, claiming, under the Treaty of Utrecht, the right of admission at the most favoured rate of duty for the sugars grown at Cuba and Porto Rico. No answer had yet been given to that application; but he had no hesitation in saying that he should be prepared at the fitting opportunity to lay both the communication and the answer to it before the House. In the meantime, he must commend the prudence of the right hon. Gentleman opposite in abstaining from expressing any opinion upon the subject, as the demand and the reply made to it would both be placed before the House at the same time.
 Sir R. Peel  regretted to say that the Government had received very afflicting accounts from that part of Syria; but the Representatives of the Five Powers and the Consuls at Beyrout had adopted every measure in their power to arrest the progress of these lamentable disorders. He understood that, without waiting for instructions, the Representatives of the Five Powers assembled at the house of Sir Stratford Canning, and agreed to make separate representations to the Porte, urging the necessity for taking immediate measures for the purpose of restoring tranquillity in the Lebanon. Nearly at the same time the Consuls of France, Austria, Prussia, and Russia met at the house of Colonel Rose at Beyrout, and determined on making a collective representation to the Pasha on behalf of those Powers, urging on the Pasha the necessity of making more effectual the measures that had hitherto been adopted. The last accounts received, dated the 20th of May, stated that the meeting had taken place, and that the collective representation had been made to the Pasha. Colonel Rose stated that desultory burnings and outrages were still going on, but that, generally speaking, tranquillity had been completely restored. In justice to Colonel Rose, he must say that that gallant officer had not only been actively engaged in carrying on these negotiations, but that by his exertions the lives of 575 Maronites had been saved. It appeared that a village had surrendered on condition of being allowed safe conduct. They informed Colonel Rose that they had agreed to travel through the Desert; and he therefore made up his mind to accompany them. He addressed the chief of the Druses, Stating that the civilized powers were interested in the safety of these people who professed the same religion, and they consented to let three of the Druse chiefs accompany them. By this means they were enabled to travel with safety through forty miles of country filled with bands of wandering Druses, who, but for this interference, would, in all probability, have massacred every one of these persons. Every effort had been made to put down those disturbances; and he trusted those efforts would be attended with success.
 Sir R. Peel  appeared at the Bar with the following Message from the Crown:—
 "VICTORIA Regina.—Her Majesty being desirous of conferring some signal mark of Her favour and approbation on the right honourable Sir Henry Pottinger, baronet and G.C.B., for the eminent services rendered by him, and particularly for the zeal, ability, and judgment displayed by him as Her Majesty's Plenipotentiary, in the negotiation of Treaties of Peace and of Commerce with the Emperor of China, recommends it to the House of Commons, to enable Her Majesty to make provision for securing to Sir Henry Pottinger a Pension of 1,500 l.
 Sir R. Peel : I think there will be great difficulty in connecting the grand juries of Ireland with these institutions. In the first place, I doubt whether the
 497
 Sir R. Peel  rose and said, he supposed that the noble Lord opposite (Lord Palmerston) would not bring forward that evening the Motion of which he had given notice, but which he had not fixed for that occasion. With respect to the gallant Officer (Sir C. Napier), he should observe that he had a great advantage over Her Majesty's Government in discussing that subject. The gallant Officer knew perfectly well that it would be inconsistent with the duty of Ministers to discuss those details into which he had entered. The gallant Officer might think it a great public advantage to point out all the weak points of our coast; and he might deem it his duty to call the attention of Parliament and the Government to the mode in which this harbour might be destroyed, or that arsenal might be dismantled. That was the gallant Officer's view of his duty to his country; but the gallant Officer should know that it would be inconsistent with the duty of the Government to enter with him into the discussion of details of that nature. He had interfered with his gallant Friend (Captain Boldero) whose duty it was to move the Ordnance Estimates; and he had requested him not to answer the gallant Officer in detail. He should think that it would require an outlay of 25,000,000 l., 516 517 l. l. l. 518
 Sir T. Fremantle  did not complain of the observations of the hon. Gentleman. On the contrary, he agreed with many of them, and shared his desire to encourage the fisheries of Ireland. He was not well acquainted with the details of this subject. Most of the correspondence connected with it had taken place before his period of office. He thought, however, that the hon. Baronet had been too severe in his animadversions upon the Commissioners. The Act under which they had acted had been improved last year, and very judicious powers were now entrusted to them.
 504
 Sir W. Somerville  said, that the present discussion would not have arisen were it not for the late debate on the grant to Maynooth. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hindley) now wanted to make amends for his former supineness on the voluntary principle. Those persons were not the only Dissenters who received State pay. He recollected that in 1836 his hon. Friend the Member for Rochdale had supported the Vote for the Presbyterians, and so did the hon. Member for Finsbury, who was not now in his place.
 Viscount Bernard  agreed with the right hon. Member for Dungarvon that it would be productive of great good if the Government would extend the loan system to the fishermen in Ireland, so as to enable them to build larger boats.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, whatever might be thought of the statements of the right hon. Baronet, there was one statement which he thought all would agree in. The right hon. Baronet stated that he charged his gallant Friend the Clerk of the Ordnance to take especial care not to answer the observations of his hon. and gallant Friend near him. That injunction had been implicitly obeyed—and undoubtedly in that respect the right hon. Baronet had shown his power as the chief of the Government over his subordinates. But he thought the right hon. Baronet might have spared some of the reproaches which he cast upon his hon. and gallant Friend (Sir C. Napier), of having been wanting in prudence in exposing to the public and to foreign nations what he considered to be
 519 520 R. Peel: 521 522 523 524 525 526 l. 527 528
 Mr. M. Sutton  rose to move—
 "That the Cambridge and Lincoln Railway Bill be re-committed to the same Committee (Group X.); and that it be an Instruction to the Committee that they have power to take into consideration whether the Section deposited in the Private Bill Office may not be amended, without injury to public or to private interests; and that it be a further Instruction to the said Committee, that they have power to amend the said Section, if, on inquiry, they shall deem fit so to do." 596 597
 Mr. Williams  expressed his belief that a better mode of rewarding Sir Henry Pottinger might have been devised—namely, by giving him some high employment in the public service, for which he would receive an adequate emolument. By that means the double purpose of rewarding a deserving officer, and of economising the public money, would have been secured. But that was a course which the Government did not seem disposed to follow, in rewarding public officers. They were about to give 1,500 l. l. 616
 Mr. Smith O'Brien  rose to bring forward the Amendment of which he had given notice, for securing the interests of the Hibernian and the Royal banks. He said he was fully aware that there was no use in offering any opposition to the Bill at the present stage, but he was anxious not to let it pass the third reading without offering a protest against some of its provisions. The Hibernian and the Royal banks had sustained for several years, and with very great advantage to the public, a competition with the Bank of Ireland, and he thought under such circumstances that it was very hard their interests should be sacrificed by the Bill, while those of other joint-stock banks were promoted. He would not trespass on the time of the House, but would simply confine himself to proposing the clause of which he had given notice. It was supported, not by his individual voice alone, but by the countenance of a very large proportion of the population of Ireland. The clause had been prepared by the agents of the Hibernian Bank, and would, he believed, meet all the objects which the Government had in view, while it protected the interests of the banks. The clause was as follows:—
 "Be it Enacted, That it shall be lawful for
 621 l.
 Mr. O'Connell  rose for the purpose of seconding the Motion for the insertion of the clause, and in doing so he thought he might as well take advantage of the opportunity to address the few words to the House which he wished for the present to offer on the subject of that Bill. The right hon. Baronet had observed that he thought the two alterations which had been made in the Bill would give satisfaction. He was afraid the right hon. Gentleman was mistaken in that belief. There would still remain several branches, to the number of twenty or thirty, in every one of which it would be necessary to maintain a supply of specie on which no notes could be issued. He would ask the House to compare Scotland with Ireland in that respect. In Scotland, all the gold that a bank possessed could be represented by notes, while in Ireland the contrary was the fact. It was true that in Scotland they had no branch banks; but the difference between the countries would act most injuriously for Ireland. In Scotland the banks would have the advantage of being able to issue a note for every sovereign in their possession; whereas in Ireland, the banks would be allowed to issue notes for only one-fourth of the gold which they would be obliged to keep by them. The difference would be at once felt to be an advantage to the Scotch banks, which the Irish banks could not enjoy. Then again, with respect to the averages. Something would certainly be gained by the alteration as to the time for taking the averages, to which the right hon. Baronet had alluded; but he would ask, ought they to adhere strictly to the averages of former years? Would they
 622 623 s.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  moved as a second Resolution, that—
 "And be it Enacted, That in the event of the said Bank stopping payment, or becoming Bankrupt, that such Stock shall be held in trust for the persons, creditors of the said Bank, who shall be holders of the said Promissory Notes of the said Bank, at the time of such stoppage of payment or failure; Provided always, that the said Bank shall be entitled to receive the half-yearly Dividends payable on the said Stock, until stoppage of payment or bankruptcy; Provided also, that the said Bank shall make Returns of their Issues of Notes as the several Banks of Issue in Ireland shall be bound to make such Returns under this Act, and that in case the issue of such Bank shall exceed, at any one time, the amount of such Stock so transferred, that such Bank shall be liable to the same penalties as the several Banks of Issue shall be liable to for their excess of Issue under the provisions of this Act; Provided also, that in case of their withdrawal of their Notes to an amount of 50,000 l.
 Mr. O'Connell : I don't mean to agitate the question of Repeal on this occasion; and I will, therefere, only say that the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down is a very bad theologian—an exceedingly bad theologian—and being so very bad, it would be well worth his while to inquire a little into the facts before he makes statements on such subjects as that of which he has just been speaking. No Catholic bishop in Ireland could deprive a priest of his functions after a formal induction, or a triennial possession. The hon. Member for Montrose has spoken of the interference of the Catholic bishops, as if they wished to interfere with a system of education for Protestants, but they have done no such thing. I should be happy to hear of Protestant bishops interfering to secure religious education of Protestant children—of Presbyterian clergymen interfering to secure the religious education of Presbyterian children; and I claim the same right for the Catholics; namely, that the Catholic bishops shall be permitted to take care of the religious education of the Catholic children. I thank the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir R. Inglis) for the admirable description which he gave of this measure when he called it "a gigantic scheme of godless education;" and as regards the alleged success of the system on the Continent, so far am I from assenting to that allegation, that I think nothing can be more unsuccessful than the efforts of those who seek to exclude from education religion, which should be the basis of it. I believe that religion ought to be the basis of education; and I came over from Ireland for no other purpose than humbly to represent the necessity of making religion the basis of education, to establish it not only as a part, but an essential part of it. I sincerely hope and desire that the discussion of this subject will be carried on with good temper and good feeling, and that we shall not imitate the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Colquhoun) in adopting such a tone, and making unfounded assertions of others who are absent. He boasted two or three times that he was a gentleman, and I think it would be far more consistent with the character of a gentleman if he had acted with more courtesy towards the Catholic bishops. He says that he is not in Conciliation Hall. He is not, it is true, and I should
 630
 Mr. O'Connell : If they had not religious instruction, the instruction would be worth nothing whatever.
 Sir W. James  observed, that whether Dr. Murray was a Repealer or not, he had always abstained from violent political agitation; and he would ever speak of such conduct in a clergyman of any communion with sincere, hearty, and unfeigned respect. But he could understand, and to a certain extent sympathize with the objections of the Roman Catholic prelates, because pursuits of a purely literary and scientific character might alienate the mind from those subjects which addressed the heart rather than the intellect. The Bill, too, had been unwisely named; it was properly a Bill for providing literary and scientific institutions. It did not profess to give education, and it certainly was not collegiate; it supposed that religious instruction was given elsewhere. Still he should be glad to see the Bill assume more of a religious character. Unhappily, our lot was cast in days when every theologian must become a politician, and every politician a theologian.
 Sir D. Norreys  thought there was an end to all hope of mixed education if the opinion of the Roman Catholic bishops was to be received as decisive by the laity.
 Mr. A. J. B. Hope  thought the statement of the right hon. Baronet might as well have been made to-night, and then the House would have come to the discussion on Thursday prepared.
 Lord Ashley  said: I rise with great satisfaction to second the Motion, and in doing so will take the liberty of tendering to the hon. Member for Bath my sincere and heartfelt thanks for having brought it forward. I offer to him not only my thanks, but I think I may say the thanks of a very large body of Gentlemen in this House; and I know that I speak the sentiments also of a very large proportion of my fellow subjects, when I say that I have viewed with disgust and horror the prevalent notion of what is miscalled honour. In this instance we are doubly indebted to the hon. and learned Member for asserting not only a social question, but a great constitutional question; for I can foresee the time when, if this system be introduced into this House, or into any other deliberative assembly, the liberty of speech will be at an end, and hon. Members will be under the necessity of appealing, as our ancestors did, not to the influence and force of reason, but to violence and the sword. I, therefore, cordially second the Motion, tendering at the same time, in my own name, and in the names also of the gentlemen of England, and of thousands of his fellow subjects, my warm thanks for his manly and courageous and consistent conduct.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, the Standing Orders expressly directed, that the datum
 599
 Lord John Manners  was understood to say that, as the Speaker had stopped the hon. Member for Sligo, he ought to pursue the same course towards the hon. and learned Member for Bath.
 Mr. Hawes  considered that it would be highly beneficial if there was a great extension of joint-stock banks in Ireland. He did not conceive that this would necessarily be attended with an increase of paper circulation. He did not believe, however, that this measure would be attended with any serious consequences to Ireland; but still it might interfere with the formation of secure joint-stock banks. If he (Mr. Hawes) interfered with the system of banking in Ireland at all, he would endeavour, as much as possible, to assimilate it to the Scotch system of banking.
 Mr. Speaker : The hon. Member is referring to a former debate. He should have taken that exception at the time. He is, therefore, out of order.
 Mr. Speaker : If the hon. and learned Member for Bath had made use of any improper expression on a former evening, it would have been my duty to have interfered with him. I did not hear him use any unparliamentary expression, nor did it appear to any hon. Member that he had used such an expression. I forbore to interfere on a former night, and I cannot admit that any observation which has been made by the hon. and learned Member for Bath on this occasion will bear the construction
 613
 Mr. Speaker : I cannot accuse the hon. and learned Member for Bath of using offensive language. Nothing that has fallen from him this evening has in any degree been offensive to anybody.
 Mr. Speaker : Perhaps it would assist the House in coming to a conclusion on this subject, if I were to read the entry which will be made on its Journals. The following is the entry:—
 "Whereupon Mr. Somers, in his place, stated That, seeing the sense of the House was so decidedly expressed in condemnation of the course he had pursued, he had no hesitation in expressing, in the most unequivocal manner, his regret that he had written the letter, and his wish to withdraw every offensive expression conveyed therein towards the hon. Member for Bath; that he considered the authority of the House and the Speaker paramount on all occasions. He begged to express his regret, that the attention of the House should have been occupied with a matter personal to himself, but trusted that what he had now said would be satisfactory to the House and the hon. Member."
 Mr. Speaker : The hon. Baronet is, most unquestionably, out of order.
 Mr. Speaker : Is the hon. Member for Sligo in his place?
 Mr. Speaker : I am not aware whether the hon. Gentleman intends to enforce his suggestion by way of Amendment or not; but before I put the question to the House, I ought to state that I do not see how it is possible that such an Amendment can be put consistently with the Standing Order. The Standing Order requires that the House shall not receive any petition relating to the Standing Orders after the second reading of the Bill. Now, this petition has been presented after the second reading, and it does relate to the Standing Orders. For the parties have certainly been guilty, though unintentionally so, of not complying with the Standing Orders; still it is quite clear that they had not complied with those Orders. Therefore, if this petition should be received as one relating to the Standing Orders, it would be decidedly against the rule of the House.
 600
 Mr. Ross  did not think that four banks for the issue of notes was sufficient; and this would be particularly felt in the province of Ulster.
 Mr. Roche  observed, that this incidental discussion had better terminate; it was for the interest of all to come to an agreement on the question.
 Mr. E. B. Roche  did not rise to prolong this unpleasant discussion, on which they must all unwillingly enter; but he trusted he might be allowed to say, that they never would have arrived at this unpleasant state if the House had, as it ought to have done, interfered when the hon. Member for Bath made those observations. What was their present position? It was not the right of any Member of that House to make personal observations; and they could not make imputations without creating unpleasant feelings, and some indignation in the bosoms of those who were treated in this manner. He took it, that it was under these feelings that the hon. Member for Sligo acted in the course he had adopted. He would not express any opinion on the prudence of that course. The course of the hon. and learned Member for Bath might, on the whole, be the prudent and proper course; but he must limit his approval, as the hon. Member for Devonport had done, to the hon. and learned Member's conduct that night. The House, however, had its own character to maintain in preventing such unpleasant scenes from occurring; and they ought to stop all that would raise these feelings, either in the House or out of it. He would not go so far as to say that the Speaker ought to get up and stop such remarks; but the House ought to show by strong intimations its own feelings against such exhibitions, and so stop the occurrence of anything unpleasant.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, that the statement to which his hon. Friend had alluded was to the effect that the Government Agent in one of the provinces of Ceylon had been a party to the exhibition of the tooth of Buddha, which the House would understand was a relic of great sanctity in Ceylon. At the time we took the island, it was believed by the natives that whoever held the tooth could also hold the government, and, accordingly, means were taken to secure it from other parties. Nothing, however, was done from veneration; there was merely a sentry placed over it, and it was not allowed to be exhibited except in the presence of a public officer. Subsequently the Agent having had a representation made to him that placing a sentry over the tooth had an appearance of veneration, the practice was discontinued, the relic was given up to the native priests, and all ceremonies were prohibited.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, that the ordinance to which the hon. Gentleman had referred had been passed by the Governor in Council in Hong Kong, for the purpose of putting down the Triad societies existing there. It appeared that these societies were a combination of Chinese, acting under the direct dictation of one individual, whom they were bound by oaths implicitly to obey; and they were known and dreaded as a body of assassins, robbers, and murderers. They were, as set forth in the edict, the very terror of the people of China; so much so, that they even levied a species of black mail from members of the Government itself. An edict had, therefore, been issued by the Emperor, for the suppression of these Triad and other secret societies. With regard to the form of the ordinance put forth by the Governor of Hong Kong, it was in some respects objectionable; at the same time, it was deemed necessary to suppress these societies; therefore further instructions would be sent to the Governor, with the view to the issuing of another ordinance. The hon. Gentleman was not strictly correct in saying that it was the practice to mark these persons on the cheek as were deserters in the army. They were marked, but not so as to be visible. He might state that in consequence of there being no power in Hong Kong to punish the Chinese, who were subjects of the Emperor, this Triad society were regarded as superior to all law, and it was felt that there was no security against the conduct of persons acting under their authority.
 Sir W. H. Barron  said, the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. O'Connell) had once been accused of a similar offence—[Mr. O'Connell at the moment entered the House]—and a Motion was passed, condemnatory of the language which he had used with reference to that House. He recollected that the Members on both sides of the House condemned the conduct of the hon. and learned Member for Cork; and the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. H. Inglis) told his hon. and learned Friend that he should be exceedingly cautious of the language which he used towards hon. Members, both in that House and out of it, when he sheltered himself under a certain vow. Hon. Members on the other (Ministerial) side of the House did not, however, lecture the hon. and learned Member for Bath as they had done the hon. and learned Member for Cork. He thought, however, that a similar observation would apply to the hon. and learned Member for Bath, when he came down there to shelter himself under the privileges of that House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, his constituents were so greatly interested in this measure, that he felt it necessary to make a few remarks, although he seldom interfered in the private business of the House. He thought that a sufficient case had been made out for the adoption of the Motion of his hon. Friend. The parties whose properties were affected could not have been misled by the error which had occurred. The hardship in this case was, that the objection was not taken before the Standing Orders Committee. If the objection had been taken then, the House would undoubtedly have permitted the parties to correct the error. If the Bill should be thrown out, in consequence of the parties not having had the opportunity of bringing the matter before the Standing Orders Committee, great injustice would be done to them, and a most inconvenient precedent would be set; for parties who were aware of the existence of objections might refrain from taking them, for the purpose of profiting by them at a future opportunity.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he could no more agree to that than to the former clause of which it was a consequence.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought the solvency of the banks would be better secured by not giving them the power proposed to be conferred by this clause, and he must, therefore, oppose it.
 Mr. Colquhoun  did not see the necessity of calling in to their aid in such a measure the opinions of any hierarchy, much less a hierarchy who had not concealed or disguised their open and avowed approval of political agitation in Ireland, and who gave powerful and efficient assistance to that agitation, as the hon. and learned Member opposite (Mr. O'Connell) could testify—a hierarchy who were pledged to an agitation, the effect of which would be to destroy the integrity of the Empire. [Mr.  O'Connell: Member: 629
 Mr. Roebuck  resumed: Now, Sir, I am exceedingly sorry that it falls to my lot to pursue the course which I am about to pursue. But I feel it a paramount duty, not as regards myself, but as regards this House, to move that—
 "John Patrick Somers, esq., having sent a challenge to a Member of this House for words spoken by that Member in his place in Parliament, is guilty of contempt, and of a breach of the privileges of this House." 604
 Mr. Roebuck : I rise, Sir, to solicit the attention of the House while I state to it a question relating to a breach of its privileges. It will be in the recollection of the House that I addressed to it some observations in the course of the debate
 602 "Sir—Unfortunately, I was not in the House of Commons last night when you spoke in Committee on the Irish Colleges Bill. If I had been present, the necessity of addressing a Letter like this, which is one of inquiry, could not have arisen. But, having been absent, I am compelled to resort to the Newspaper Reports of the proceedings which took place, and of the language used; and I beg, in the first instance, to ask you, if the following words were spoken by you, or words to the same effect:—'This consideration might have led to what had been witnessed, and those who followed in the train of such a leader deserved little respect either for their position or their intellect?' If you used those words, the insult they convey to me, as a Repealer, is plain. My second question therefore is, are you prepared to 'JUSTIFY' them? The meaning of the word I have underlined I am sure you are too well read in the old history of Chivalry to misinterpret. "P.S. I send a copy of the  Morning Chronicle
 Mr. Roebuck  continued. On receipt of that note, I immediately wrote an answer, which I delivered myself next morning, to this effect:—
 "Sir—You shall receive the answer which your letter requites, in the House of Commons, on Monday next; and I now give you the following warning for your guidance at the same time. I am determined that the free expression of opinion shall not in my person be coerced or checked; and I shall, therefore, take the most stringent and effective means to punish your present menace, and put down all future violence. I hope you are sufficiently
 603
 Mr. Roebuck  rose amidst great confusion, and said, I will go one step further. I have been accused of using language unfit to be heard in this House. The hon. Member has just used such language towards me; and I say, he ought to be called upon to retract it.
 Mr. Roebuck : Sir, at the outset of these proceedings, I stated that I was bringing before the House its privileges, and not my case; and, therefore, when the House says that its privileges are satisfied and defended, far be it from me to let my personal
 612
 Mr. J. A. Smith  asked a question of the hon. Gentleman respecting the issuing of a certain ordinance by Mr. Davis, the Governor of Hong Kong, against certain societies existing in that Colony, called Triad, and other secret societies, the members composing which were the native Chinese. By the ordinance it was decreed that any person convicted
 601
 Mr. J. P. Somers  rose and bowed.
 Mr. J. P. Somers  then rose and said: Sir, I have no hesitation whatever in withdrawing the letter, which is looked on as an attack upon the hon. and learned Member. It was merely a letter of inquiry. The hon. and learned Member did not condescend to answer those inquiries. I do not call in question his motives for refusing, but I bow with unaffected deference to the decision of this House and of the Chair. I am not one of those who will play with the authority of the House, or attempt a dexterous accommodation of
 605
 Mr. Somers : I am unwilling to address the House; but reference has been made to me by the hon. and learned Member for Bath, in language which I declare to be unparliamentary, assigning to me the basest motives.
 Mr. Somers : The hon. and learned Member for Bath has repeated all the offensive expressions which he used on a former night; and I, therefore, stand in the same position before the country.
 Mr. Trelawny  said, he should be thought presumptuous in following such an authority on such a subject; but he only did so
 624 625
 Mr. W. Patten  was afraid, according to the regular rules of the House, that the matter could not be referred to the Standing Orders Committee. He thought it would be more advisable to refer the case to the Committee on Standing Orders. That Committee would make a Report, and the House could then come to a decision upon the Motion. If the forms of the House would permit it, he would move an Amendment to that effect.
 Mr. Hume  said, that no man was a greater enemy to the practice of duelling than he was; and he was willing to make every allowance for what happened in the heat of debate. He spoke feelingly; for no one, probably, had required more allowances in this respect than he had done; but this case was entirely different. Many hon. Members might have received such a letter as that written to his hon. Friend, in such a way as to lead to the destruction of themselves and their families. The House ought not, therefore, to try his hon. Friend for his speech the other night; and
 608
 Mr. Hume  intended to trespass only for a very few moments on the time of the House. He was extremely anxious, in consequence of what had fallen from his hon. Friend (Mr. Williams), to offer a few remarks. The noble Lord who had just sat down had stated, that the present Vote met with the concurrence of the House of Commons; and he (Mr. Hume) believed he could safely say, that it had also the approbation of the public generally. He could tell his hon. Friend, that during the many years in which he (Mr. Hume) had a seat in that House, there was, perhaps, no man who had done more to reduce pensions than he had, but he never expressed an opinion otherwise than this: namely, that while he was anxious to take from the Crown the privilege of granting pensions at its discretion, he also declared at all times, that whenever an occasion might occur in which a pension was deserved, the Government might with confidence appeal to the Representatives of the people in that House on behalf of any individual whose merits would be known, and whose claims would be generally admitted. He admitted the great services of the naval and military forces. He would even go so far as to say that he did not think there was any occurrence in the naval history of this country so highly honourable and creditable to the individuals concerned in it as the events of the Chinese war. But, he would ask, was there no credit to be given to the man who had the talent of seizing upon the proper opportunity, and turning it to a successful
 620
 Mr. Hume  objected to postponing the measure in any way. He was of opinion that the reason which had been urged for the postponement of the Bill, was a good
 627
 Mr. Bernal Osborne  postponed the Resolution of which he had given notice, until the Motion for the third reading of the Bill, in order to afford the right hon. the Recorder of Dublin an opportunity of being present on the occasion.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the hon. Member for Kilkenny had taken for his motto, " religio mihi nulla est. 628
 Mr. Estcourt  considered the error to be one of great importance; because the datum line was a substantial part of the measure; and the House had directed certain notices to be given, and certain sections to be deposited, and that the datum line should be so marked out that all the world might be able to judge of its correctness. How, otherwise, could individuals ascertain whether their property was likely to be affected or not? He trusted the House would maintain the Standing Order; and not agree to the Motion of the hon. Member for Cambridge. The hon. Member had referred to various instances where parties had been allowed to make corrections; but the Standing Orders Committee considered the datum line of such importance, that he knew of no case in which they had dispensed with it. He trusted the House would adhere to the Standing Order, and repel the Motion of the hon. Member.
 Mr. Wyse  had not understood that religious instruction was to be excluded from these Colleges; but that every facility should be given to individuals to endow chairs of religion in the Colleges.
 Sir G. Grey : Nothing, Sir, can be more satisfactory or more ample than the manner in which, during the early part of his observations, the hon. Member for Sligo retracted his letter to the hon. Member for Bath. The casual expression in the latter part dropped from him unawares, and was not intended to qualify that retractation. But as the hon. Member has placed the course he has taken partly on what he conceives to be the general feeling of the House, I should not do justice to my own feelings, if I did not say a few words upon the subject. In common with my noble Friend the Member for Dorsetshire, I think the course pursued this night by the hon. and learned Member for Bath is the proper course which every Member, under such circumstances, should always pursue; and I concur in the opinion that the example now, for the second time, set by the hon. and learned Member, will be followed by any other Member who may receive a hostile message for what may have been spoken in debate. I concur also with my noble
 606
 Sir George Staunton  having been absent when the subject was before the House on the former evening, was anxious to take that opportunity of expressing his cordial concurrence in the Motion before the House. He concurred with the hon. Member who had just sat down as to the importance of the services rendered by the naval and military forces in the Chinese war; but still he very much doubted whether, without the skill and judgment exhibited by Sir Henry Pottinger, these services would have led to the speedy and important conclusion which had been put to the war. He was anxious to express his entire concurrence in what the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government had said respecting the gentleman that had been appointed to succeed Sir Henry Pottinger in China. He considered the appointment of Mr. Davis a most excellent one. From the peculiar position of this country with regard to China, it was necessary that a gentleman, not only of talents but of experience, should be placed over the new Colony in that quarter; and he regarded it as a proof of the fitness of Mr. Davis for the post to which he had been promoted, that the Colony had progressed very favourably since his arrival there, and that perfect harmony and good understanding had been maintained with the Chinese authorities. He had only to add that he considered the present Motion one which conferred great honour on Her Majesty's Government.
 Sir J. Graham  said, it was the intention of the Government to adhere to the 15th Clause of the Bill, which gave facilities for lectures out of private endowments within the walls of the Colleges, subject to the control of the governing body and the approval of the Crown, but with no endowment from the State.
 Sir J. Graham  agreed with the last observation of the hon. and learned Member. He hoped they would discuss the Bill with perfect good temper. It was far from the intention of the Government to interfere with the Roman Catholic religion. The hon. Member for Newcastle said that it would be unworthy of the House to commit the sole discussion of this Bill to any body of prelates, however respectable. To that feeling he subscribed; but, at the same time, he must observe that the Irish Protestants had ample provision made for them in Trinity College, and that the present measure must be deeply and peculiarly interesting to the Roman Catholic prelates. It was a question touching a large portion of the Roman Catholic population, and he was prepared to declare that he did think the opinions of the ministers of the Roman Catholic Church ought to be received with respect; he did not say with humble deference, but at all events with respectful attention. In answer to the question of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Dungarvon, he had to say that the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland did receive from the Roman Catholic prelates a written memorial, and that in addition to that written memorial the Lord Lieutenant had the honour of receiving a deputation. The Lord Lieutenant conferred with those prelates: he entered largely into the subject, and he had reason to hope that some of their objections were mitigated by the explanations he had given. The consequence of that conference was, the Amendments which he had laid on the Table of the House. Since that no further direct intercourse had taken place between the Lord Lieutenant and the prelates. With respect to further alterations, he would not say, and it would not be fitting to say, that they had been submitted to the Roman Catholic prelates. The plan which had been submitted by the Government was a plan for collegiate education, from which religions instruction was excluded within the walls; whilst, at the same time, every facility was given to that religious instruction out of the walls
 631
 Sir James Graham  postponed the statement he had intended to give that evening with reference to this Bill, until the Motion for going into Committee upon it. That Motion would be made on Thursday next, immediately after the Enclosure Bill was disposed of. The alterations he contemplated were of considerable importance.
 Sir James Graham  moved that the Report on the Colleges (Ireland) Bill be brought up.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  was understood to say (but he was very imperfectly heard), that the answer of his hon. Friend was perfectly satisfactory.
 Sir R. Inglis  wished to ask a question of the Under Secretary for the Colonies with reference to a report which he had read, as to certain proceedings on the part of the British authorities in Ceylon, which if true were a violation of the resolutions which had been come to on the part of Her Majesty's Government and the East India Company for the suppression of idolatrous worship in India and Ceylon. It was reported that homage had been paid by the English authorities to some object of idolatrous worship in Ceylon. He wished to ask whether there was any truth in that report?
 Sir R. H. Inglis  rose to thank the hon. Member for Bath for adopting a course
 609
 Sir R. Peel  was sorry that the noble Lord (Lord Howick) had exercised his privilege of opposing the withdrawal of the Motion. The hon. and learned Member was prepared to withdraw it, and he thought the privileges of the House would have been sufficiently vindicated by the adoption of such a course; and he must say, that the hon. Member's readiness to do so was very creditable to him. He begged to remind the noble Lord, that last year the hon. and learned Gentleman had occasion to make a similar complaint; and he then pursued the same course. The letter which had then been written by the hon. Member for Canterbury was of a more decided character than that of the hon. Member for Sligo; but the House was contented to let it pass, without any record upon its Journals that it was a breach of privilege. There was also a case in which Mr. Hope, now the Lord Chief Justice Clerk, sent a hostile letter to another hon. Member; and, after an apology, the House came to a Resolution that they would proceed no further. The word "contempt," in the Resolution of the hon. and learned
 614
 Sir R. Peel : I think, Sir, that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Bath has taken a course which is consistent with true courage, and one which he can take without any imputation remaining on him; and at the same time, I think that the hon. Gentleman has made every retractation it was possible for him to make. He has unequivocally declared that he retracts the letter, he has expressed his deep regret at having written it, and he has apologized to the House; and he has done what a person who has been betrayed into an act of this kind may, with equal credit to himself, do. Under these circumstances, I trust the hon. and learned Gentleman will see he has received such reparation that
 607
 Sir Robert Peel  said, the sentiments which he had expressed on the former evening when the subject was before the House, were in perfect accordance with the opinion put forward by the hon. Member for Coventry (Mr. Williams), that the patronage of the Crown, particularly in appointments to high offices of trust, should be employed in conferring emoluments on those whom circumstances had enabled to render important public services. Therefore the principle contended for by the hon. Gentleman was one which he fully admitted; at the same time that he thought the sense of the House fully justified the course which had been taken in the present instance. It should not be forgotten that there were
 617 618
 Sir R. Peel  observed, that the House was already aware of the two important alterations which had been made in the Bill since it had been in Committee—namely, the alterations with respect to the period for taking the averages, and that with regard to the account of specie. He trusted, therefore, that any objections which might be entertained to the measure would thus be materially diminished.
 Sir R. Peel  believed that the permanent benefit of Ireland depended much more on the stability of the banking system, than upon any amount of circulation. The hon. Gentleman alluded to the poverty of Ireland; now, he (Sir R. Peel) had seen the same state of things in Ireland when there was most extensive paper circulation, upon which there was no restriction. Shortly afterwards he had seen every one of those evils to which the hon. and learned Gentleman had alluded; and when the time arrived, as was always the case with a too abundant issue of paper, there was the greatest and most wide-spread misery in the west and south of Ireland, and when almost every bank failed. He believed that upwards of fifty failed, and were unable to discharge their obligations. They had no wish to reclaim the notes; but there should be a security that they should be at once convertible into coin. He believed that the restrictions that were proposed in this Bill would not operate to prevent a sufficient circulation of notes in sound security. He believed that, after a short time, when people got confidence in the banks, it would happen, as in Scotland, where there was little disposition to change the notes.
 Sir R. Peel : Mr. Greene, I feel that I shall only be weakening the effect of that unanimous feeling of public approbation of the character and conduct, and of the public services of Sir H. Pottinger, which was expressed by the House on a preceding night, if I were now to repeat the general panegyric which was then passed on that gallant gentleman, not only by every one who spoke, but which was assented to by all who were present. There are some occasions on which the repetition of panegyric is calculated only to weaken it. Therefore I shall abstain, feeling this to be one of those occasions, from dwelling upon the merits of an officer which are universally admitted to be great, and deserving of peculiar reward. In accordance, therefore, with Her Majesty's most gracious Message, I have to move that Her Majesty be enabled to grant to Sir H. Pottinger the sum of 1,500 l. l.
 Sir R. Peel  was fearful that if they gave too great facilities for a paper currency, they would in the end generate a tendency to get rid of a metallic currency. Let the House look at the manner in which the enormous transactions at Liverpool and Manchester were conducted; there the only bank notes in circulation were those of the Bank of England, representing sovereigns; and if these notes were abolished to-morrow, sovereigns would be used in their stead, without much inconvenience.
 Sir Valentine Blake  said, the House had sanctioned a fallacious principle; its privileges were not so extensive as they appeared to think. He thought the House should make some allowance for the feelings of the hon. Member for Sligo, and ought to require some assurance from the hon. and learned Member for Bath that he would not in future pursue the habit which he had been so fond of indulging in.
 Sir V. Blake , who said, I rise to order. Every hon. Gentleman has an undoubted right to deliver his opinion upon any subject that may be submitted for debate in this House; but I say that he has no right to catechise or lecture any particular Member or set of Members, or utter offensive words. ["Order."]
 Sir W. Somerville  thought this was not a time to allude to former debates. He would only say that he had sat in that House a number of years with his hon. Friend the Member for Sligo, and he had never heard him make use of an unkind, harsh, or unparliamentary expression towards any one.
 Lord Courtenay , as Chairman of the Committee to which the Bill had been referred, wished to make a few remarks before the discussion proceeded further. He did not wish to express any opinion as to the propriety of granting the application; but he would just state, on behalf of the Committee, that in the main the statement made by the hon. Member for Cambridge was perfectly correct. It certainly was correct, as stated in the petition, that it having appeared, on the examination of the principal engineer, that this error existed, and the Committee being further convinced, that as far as the evidence enabled them to form a judgment, it was a clerical error—feeling the importance of the investigation which was committed to them, and the desirableness of giving the promoters of the Bill an opportunity of setting themselves right before the Committee, if they could do so—they thought it fair to all parties to ask leave to present the Report at as early a period as possible, in order that the promoters of the Bill might as soon as possible amend their position. The error, so far as the evidence enabled him to speak, was one which did not materially or prejudicially affect any one landowner on the line, or any public or private interests; but it was an error on which they felt bound to decide in the manner they had done, according to the clauses in the Railway Clauses Consolidation Act. They came to a decision after the most careful deliberation; but they did not proceed upon any impression that the existence of the error was prejudicial to the landowners; because the evidence would have led them
 598
 Viscount Howick  entirely concurred with the hon. Gentleman, that the Motion ought not to be withdrawn without some entry, at all events, of the ground, and without saying that the apology of the hon. Member for Sligo had been accepted as full satisfaction. But he would go further: he would say they ought first to affirm the Motion of the hon. Member for Bath, and having affirmed that, they should add that a full and ample apology having been tendered in his place by the hon. Member for Sligo, the House would not proceed further in the matter. This was the proper course; for if the Motion were withdrawn, it would appear as if they were not prepared to declare that a challenge sent by one Member of the House to another Member, for words spoken in that House, was a breach of privilege. As he agreed with the noble Lord the Member for Dorsetshire, and with the right hon. Baronet the Member for Devonport, that they were deeply obliged to the hon. and learned Member for Bath for the course he had taken, he
 610
 Viscount Howick  then moved his Resolution, which was also agreed to.
 Viscount Howick  said, that after the appeal which the right hon. Baronet had made to him, he might be excused for saying that the appeal had given him the strongest reason for persevering. The right hon. Baronet said, that this was not the first time that such a Motion had been withdrawn; it might, therefore, be in consequence of former precedents that a similar transaction had taken place again. As to amending the Motion, he was sure the hon. and learned Member for Bath would not object to do so, by the omission of the word "contempt." He thought, however, that it was rather invidious to appeal to the hon. and learned Member who had made the Motion to withdraw it. Should the Amendment be acceded to, he was prepared to move—"That, in consequence of the full and ample apology offered to the House by the said John Patrick Somers, the House will not proceed any further in this matter."
 Viscount Palmerston  would give his most hearty and cordial support to the Vote before the House. He considered the circumstances under which it was brought forward perfectly satisfactory. He thought the grant was highly to be recommended, even on the ground of economy; for there could be no greater economy practised than rewarding public services in a proper manner. In supporting the Vote he could not at all concur in the hope which the hon. Member had expressed, that it would not serve as a precedent to lead to future grants. He should, on the contrary, be delighted to find that it became a precedent, and led to bestowing equal rewards for services of equal importance. He trusted that when great services were rendered to the country, the House of Commons would be found, as it was now, assisting the Crown in marking its approbation of those services. He could not forget how much the operations of the army and navy had contributed to their successes in China. He quite concurred in all that had been said in praise of these services; and he thought it quite impossible that any ability of negotiation, such as that shown by Sir Henry Pottinger, could have been successful, if the way had not been opened for him by the able proceedings of Sir Hugh Gough and Sir William Parker. He recollected a very remarkable expression which had been used by Lord Grenville, soon after the conclusion of the war. Adverting to the great military successes of the Duke of Wellington, he said, that it was remarkable that when he spoke to that commander of the great victories which he had achieved, the reply was, that they were due to the valour, the discipline, and the courage of the troops; and that when he spoke to the officers on the same subject, they said the victories were due to the great skill and ability of their commander. In the same manner it might be said of the Chinese war, that the negotiations were rendered feasible by the skill and bravery of the naval and military forces; but that that skill and bravery would have been insufficient for the purpose if there had not been one, like Sir Henry Pottinger, to take advantage of the successes which the naval and military forces achieved. He entertained no apprehension but that, when an opportunity
 619
 Viscount Palmerston : I concur very much in the view just stated by my noble Friend. It is inexpedient for the House to allow the present occasion to pass without expressing its opinion on the principle involved in the question; but I submit that if we pass a Resolution pointing at an individual Member, it will necessarily imply blame incurred and censure deserved. It seems to be the opinion of the House that the apology of my hon. Friend the Member for Sligo is sufficient; he did not dispute his letter—that letter is a breach of privilege—and for that letter such an amends has been made as ought to exempt my hon. Friend from any future proceeding. It seems to me that the object of all parties will be attained if, as the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) suggested, the personal Resolution be withdrawn, and a general Resolution be substituted, affirming that a breach of privilege has been committed by reason that one hon. Member sent a hostile message to another, in consequence of something that passed in a former debate. I quite agree with those who think that the hon. Member for Bath has well deserved the thanks of the House and country for the course he has pursued: my concurrence could not be expressed in too strong terms. I almost admit that this is not merely a technical breach of privilege; but that if permitted to pass unnoticed, it would, as my noble Friend the Member for Dorsetshire said, strike a fatal blow at the very constitution of the House. It is, therefore, essential to enable the House properly to discharge its duties, that such proceedings should not be repeated. But, on the other hand, it is important that the House should attend to the observations which were made by my right hon. Friend the Member for Devonport; and that every hon. Member should bear in mind, that if he is not to be personally responsible for that which he may feel it his duty to state in debate, he should take especial care that what he does say shall not be calculated to give unnecessary personal offence; and without taking upon myself the task of lecturing the right hon. and learned Member for Bath, I think he himself will feel that the observations which he made, not merely on Friday night, but which he has made on former occasions, upon Members representing Irish constituencies, can scarcely be justified.
 611
 Viscount Sandon  suggested moving the previous question, otherwise they would be compelled to vote "ay" or "no" upon the question of breach of privilege.
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, that the circumstances were these: the land consisted of about sixteen acres, on a part of
 665 l.; l., l.
 Lord R. Grosvenor  wished to ask a question of the noble Lord at the head of the Woods and Forests on a subject which involved the comfort and happiness of a very large number of poor people, who were located not far from the spot in which hon. Members, were now assembled. In order to make himself intelligible, he would briefly state the circumstances which had already occurred. In the beginning of last year,
 664 l. l.
 Mr. Charles Buller : If, Sir, my sole object, on the present occasion, were to bring before this House the injury which the Government has inflicted on the New Zealand Company, by the violation of an agreement on which its
 666 667 668 "Your Lordship may ask, Is New Zealand, as a British Colony, worth any great expenditure of public money? My Lord, its value is far greater than the public believe, or even your Lordship, with access to every source of information, can yet be aware. There is very much more available fertile and rich land than has been supposed," "The climate favours every kind of production, animal as well as vegetable, in an extraordinary manner." "I may add," says the Governor, "that mineral riches abound; their extent and variety becoming more known and better ascertained every month. Since I last wrote to your Lordship, and mentioned this subject, tin has been found in this neighbourhood close to the sea." "It has been found," he says, "that the flax hitherto sent home bears no comparison with a peculiar kind, called by the settlers 'silky flax.' This is now being cultivated (though perennial, it is comparatively scarce), and promises to be a really valuable export." "Whales," he says, "are again frequenting
 669 "The natives," he adds, "are well inclined to labour for very small remuneration, and are anxiously seeking for employment. There are all the means for prosperity, except capital; but that, with our mineral wealth, is sure to be found, if good feeling is kept up between the Natives and Europeans, and the security of property as well as life fully maintained." "I have here referred only to the commercial bearings of this grave question; the political aspect will be before your Lordship's eye in England." 670 671 672 673 "The depopulation of the country has been going on till district after district has become void of its inhabitants, and the population is even now but a remnant of what it was in the memory of some European residents." 674 675 676 677 678 "Be as lavish," said the New Zealand Company, in one of their letters to Lord Stanley, "be as lavish as you please of the ordinary materials of European barter; give clothing, arms, ammunition, tools, and tobacco, and what beyond the consumption of the day can you really give of value to the man whom you do not find possessed, and cannot at once endow, with a gift of foresight? Give more, and you only waste the surplus. And when the blanket is worn out, the second-rate finery turned to rags, the gun burst, the ammunition expended, the tool broken, and the drug has produced its hour of intoxication, at the end of a year or two, or even ten, what better is the wild man for your gift? At the end of the short period of enjoyment he and his race are beggars, amid the wealth that has grown out of their possessions; doomed, after a brief period of toil for the intruder, and of humiliation in his presence, to disappear from the land over which they once reigned undisputed masters." "It was to guard, as much as human care can guard, against such a result, that the New Zealand Company invented the plan of native reserves. To recompense at the moment, and comply with the exigencies of opinion, they paid down what, according to received notions, was a sufficient price. But the real worth of the land they thought they gave only when they reserved, as a perpetual possession for the native, a portion equal to one-tenth of the lands which they had purchased from him. This was a price which he could not squander away at the moment, but of which, as time passed on, the inalienable value must continually and immensely increase for his benefit and that of his children. Heir of a patrimony so large, the native chief, instead of contemplating European neighbours with jealous apprehension, as a race destined to degrade and oust him, would learn to view with delight the presence, the industry, and the prosperity of those who, in labouring for themselves, could not but create an estate to be enjoyed by him without toil or risk. Nor was this design confined to barren speculation. In every settlement which we have formed, a portion equal to one-tenth of town, as well as rural allotments, has always been reserved for the natives; in the lottery by which the right of
 679 l. 680 l. l., 681 682 683 684 685 686 687 "Confirms and guarantees to the chiefs and tribes of New Zealand, and to the respective families and individuals thereof, the full, exclusive, and undisturbed possession of their lands and estates, forests, fisheries, and other properties, which they may collectively or individually possess," &c. 688 689 "Provided always that nothing in these our letters patent contained shall affect, or be construed to affect, the rights of any aboriginal natives of the said Colony of New Zealand to the actual occupation or enjoyment, in their own persons, or in the persons of their descendants, of any lands in the said Colony now actually occupied or enjoyed by such natives." 690 691 692 "Meanwhile the natives have been clamorous to sell their lands. They called on the Government to buy, or let others buy; and great discontent has been caused among them by the inability of the Government to do either. But while they called on the Government to buy from them, it was at a price wholly out of the question. They said, 'Let the Government give us as much as it receives from others, or let them buy from us. By the Treaty of Waitangi, we agreed to let the Queen have the first choice (the refusal) of our lands; but we never thought that we should be prevented from selling to others if the Queen would not buy. Is it just to us that you will neither buy at a fair price, nor let others buy, who will give us as large a price as they give to you, after you have bought from us for a trifle?' In this state of affairs, unable to buy land for two most cogent reasons—one, the exorbitant demands of the natives, and the other, having neither money nor credit; beset daily by the importunate demands of powerful tribes, seeing that no sales of land for money could be expected, under the existing circumstances already described (referring to the Company's lands, and those of the old settlers, to be brought into the market), I determined to take that step which I proposed in a letter to your Lordship, dated 16th May, 1843, on which a qualified opinion was given in your Lordship's answer, dated June 26th ultimo." s. l. Hope: 693 s. l., s. d. s. l. d. 694 d. "It is, of course, intended that the tax should apply to all lands claimed as the property of native tribes, and not in actual cultivation; and I presume it is contemplated that non-payment of the tax shall be followed by confiscation of a portion of the lands equivalent to the amount of the tax unpaid." 695 "Though, if it can be peacefully effected, it would appear to suggest an easy mode of obtaining a large amount of disposable land." 696 697 698 699 l. l. 700 701 s. s. s. s. s. 702 s. s.; s. s. s., s. s. 703 l. 704 705 706 s. "When the amount of the above-mentioned expenditure shall have been ascertained, the Company shall be secured by a grant from the Crown to them, under the public seal of the Colony, of as many acres of land as shall be equal to four times the number of pounds sterling which they shall be found to have expended in the manner and for the purposes above mentioned." "The Company forego and disclaim all title, or pretence of title, to any lands purchased or acquired by them in New Zealand, other than the lands so to be granted to them as aforesaid." 707 "The result of Mr. Pennington's investigation, you will perceive to be, that under such arrangement (that is, the agreement) the Company are entitled to receive 531,929 acres at present, and that they may hereafter be entitled to a further portion of between 4,000 and 5,000 acres. You will therefore make the necessary assignments of land to the agents of the Company, in pursuance of the terms of the agreement." 708 l. 709 710 l., 711 712 713 locus standi primâ facie 714 715 primâ facie s. s. 716 l. l. 717 718 Hope: 719 l. 720 721 l. l. 722 corveé l. l. l. l.; s. 723 l., l. l. l. l., l., l. l. 724 s. 725 726 "That this House will resolve itself into a Committee, to consider the state of the Colony of New Zealand, and the case of the New Zealand Company."
 Mr. G. W. Hope  was understood to say, that he felt no small embarrassment, not only because upon him had devolved the defence of one who, if he had a seat in that House, was so eminently qualified to defend himself, but because he was very deeply sensible of his own inability to undertake the advocacy of a cause in all respects so important, and the task of dealing with which was in every point of view so arduous. There had been many strong observations made upon the noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Department, and many aspersions were sought to be cast upon him; but he felt he should not be consulting the wishes of the House if he occupied their time in retorting those attacks upon their authors; on the contrary, he should rather seek to defend the noble Lord by going through facts and reasonings, for they constituted the true ground on which his vindication rested. Lord Stanley had been accused of being an enemy to colonization. He denied the charge. The noble Lord had always shown that he looked upon colonization as one of the great resources of the country; he never took it up inconsiderately as a remedy for pauperism; he never admitted that it was a remedy for all the evils under which the country laboured; but it was too much to assert that he was, therefore, an enemy to colonization. He believed, in fact, that his views were essentially the same as those of the hon. Member for Liskeard (Mr. C. Buller); but he would not occupy the time of the House on general questions, and would proceed at once to that immediately before them. When the present Colonial Secretary succeeded the Member for London (Lord John Russell), he found that discussions had then been going on between the New Zealand Company and the Department to the head of which he had just been appointed. He entered upon
 733 "The Directors cannot conclude this letter without offering to your Lordship their acknowledgments of the generous spirit in which you have done justice to the objects of the Company, and to the manner in which they have been hitherto pursued; as well as their cordial thanks for the tenor of the instructions which your Lordship proposes to issue to the Governor of New Zealand, in relation to the interests of the Company, and of the parties who have settled in that Colony in connexion with it." 734 C. Buller 735 736 737 "On the other hand, the Ministers of the Crown have been restrained by still higher motives from engaging in such an enterprise. They have deferred to the advice of the Committee appointed by the House of Commons in the year 1836, to inquire into the state of the aborigines residing in the vicinity of our Colonial settlements, and have concurred with that Committee in thinking that the increase of national wealth and power, promised by the acquisition of New Zealand, would be a most inadequate compensation for the injury
 738 C. Buller: "Having by these methods obviated the dangers of the acquisition of large tracts of country by mere land-jobbers, it will be your duty to obtain, by fair and equal contracts with the natives, the cession to the Crown of such waste lands as may be progressively required for the occupation of settlers resorting to New Zealand." 739 "Her Majesty's Government entirely approve of the measures which you adopted, and of the manner in which they were carried into effect by Captain Hobson." 740 "Her Majesty, in the Royal Instructions under the Sign Manual, has distinctly established the general principle, that the territorial rights of the natives, as owners of the soil, must be recognised and respected; and that no purchases hereafter to be made from them shall be valid, unless such purchases be effected by the Governor of the Colony on Her Majesty's behalf;"— "It would appear to be the custom or understanding of the natives, that the lands of each tribe are a species of common property, which can be alienated on behalf of the tribe at large only by the concurrent acts of its various chiefs. But this statement of so obscure a fact may be inaccurate; and it may possibly be the prevalent opinion amongst some of the tribes, that an individual has a valid title to a particular tract of it"—not a particular spot, but a particular tract;—"or, at least, has the power of disposing of it for his own benefit. Whatever may be the custom or prevailing notion amongst them regarding the right of property in land, and the right of alienation, a law should be enacted declaring the absolute invalidity of any conveyance, or contract, or will, for the disposal of land by any native chief or chiefs, or by any individual native, when the object of that contract, or conveyance, or will, is to transfer to any person of European birth or descent the land itself, except as thereinafter excepted." 741 "It is impossible to reconcile the missionary system with that of the Company. In every respect they go on opposite principles. The avowed object of the missionaries has been to prevent colonization, to preserve the nationality of the New Zealanders, to keep them apart from European contact; the Treaty at Waitangi went on what is called the missionary principle; Lord John Russell went on what is called the colonizing principle in his agreement and other proceedings with the Company." 742 "We did not believe that even the Royal power of making Treaties could establish, in the eye of our courts, such a fiction as a native law of real property in New Zealand. We always have had very serious doubts whether the Treaty of Waitangi, made with naked savages by a Consul invested with no plenipotentiary powers, without ratification by the Crown, could be treated by lawyers as anything but a praiseworthy device for amusing and pacifying savages for the moment. But we thought it most probable, that whenever possession of New Zealand should be actually obtained by Her Majesty, the view hastily adopted by Lord Normanby would be found impracticable, and abandoned." 743 l. C. Buller 744 "I understood, in the first place, that the Company had made large purchases of land, fully equal to satisfy any claim they could make good under the agreement." C. Buller: "This is not merely a suggestion of memory, but it is shown in my despatch to Governor Hobson, dated the 22nd of April, 1841. I there state, 'by the terms of the contract between the Company and Her Majesty's Government, enclosed in my despatch of the 10th of March, it was provided that, in respect of their antecedent expenditure for colonization, a certain extent of land should be conceded to them.' 'It was further agreed, that this land should be taken in that part of the Colony of New Zealand at which their settlement had been formed, and to which they had laid claim in virtue of contracts made before your arrival in the Colony.' This passage appears to me to indicate a belief on my part, that the contracts previously made by the Company would fully enable the Crown to satisfy its engagements. But the case might arise that these contracts were incomplete; that the claims of the Company to land were either insufficient or totally unfounded. Would it, in that case, have been my interpretation of the agreement, that the Crown was released from its promise to the Company? or ought the grant of land to be delayed until the Company shall have established their title before the Commissioner of Land Claims? The only answer I can give to such a question is, that I believed the extent of land which it would be in the power of the Crown to grant, to be far greater than would be enough to satisfy its engagements. I did not suppose that any claim could be set up by the natives to the millions of acres of land which are to be found in New Zealand, neither occupied nor cultivated, nor, in any fair sense, owned by any individual." l. C. Buller: 745 l. 746 "It is presumed in the arrangement that the Company has acquired a valid title from the natives to a very large territory on both sides of Cook's Strait, to which they lay claim, and to which their settlements are to be confined." "Provided always, that if any part of the said lands shall, upon due inquiry, be found not to have been validly purchased from them before the date of the alleged purchase by the New Zealand Company, full compensation shall be made to the natives." "30 th April, "The Court entirely approves and commends your conduct of the important negotiations with the Government, to which your despatch of the 11th September relates." "I have not the smallest apprehension as to the result of the inquiry; nor do I think that Mr. Spain has any idea of the validity of the Company's titles being questionable. The impression prevails here that that gentleman's instructions from the Colonial Minister have been overruled, or much modified, by Governor Hobson, to meet the conditions of the Treaty of Waitangi. These conditions rendered it imperative on the Government, before making any grant of land, to acquire it by purchase from the natives; and it is to be presumed that the Governor, in charging Mr. Spain to investigate the Company's titles, intended only to fulfil that compact, although in doing so he should not follow the instructions
 747 Howick: C. Buller: primâ facie 748 749 750 "The Court is not ignorant of the duties which devolved upon me in the early days of the Company's existence; of the necessity of acquiring a territory on which to locate the emigrants destined to follow me from England with so little delay, without the sanction, if not in direct opposition to the wishes of the Government; of the difficulty of obtaining in a limited period a clear and indefeasible title to sufficient land to enable the Company to meet its engagements, in a country where such confusion as to proprietorship existed as I found here." 751 752 753 primâ facie 754 "The information which has been laid before us, shows that these stipulations, and the subsequent proceedings of the Governor, founded upon them, have firmly established in the minds of the natives, notions which they had recently been taught to entertain, of having a proprietary title of great value to land not actually occupied." "That they are not prepared to recommend that the Governor should be peremptorily ordered to assert the rights of the Crown as they believe them to exist." 755 756
 Mr. Monckton Milnes , in seconding the Motion, would say only a few words in addition to the admirable speech of the hon. Member. He rose to second the Motion, because it was his duty to stand by the Resolutions of that Committee which he had in some degree contributed to lay upon the Table; and he hoped that, by that Motion being seconded by a Member on that side of the House, he might induce hon. Gentlemen to consider it, as in some degree, divested of a party character. He thought, too, that as he was judging of his own political friends, he might be permitted to deal more indulgently, and to be
 727 728 729 "The fear of punishment which Rauperaha and Rangihaeata felt for some time after the Wairao (and which naturally greatly influenced their followers), has now ceased, and rendered those men more difficult of management than they were before that event." "In the execution of my official duties, as Commissioner in the settlements of the New Zealand Company, in investigating the claims to land of that body, I have had occasion to decide in favour generally of the natives. This circumstance would fairly lead to the inference that this race at least would now place confidence in my decisions, and show a disposition to abide by and obey them; but it is with regret that I am compelled to admit that the fact is precisely the reverse of this. In cases where they have only sought for compensation, and never denied a partial sale, the moment the amount to be paid them was decided upon, they began to object to accept it, and to propose terms that could not be entertained. In fact, it appears to me that they have determined totally to disregard British law and authority, and that they have come to the conclusion that we are not strong enough to enforce the one, or maintain the other." 730 "Colonel Wakefield was obliged to buy of the natives not certain lands within certain boundaries, but the rights, claims, and interests of the contracting chieftains, whatever they might be, to any land whatever within certain boundaries." 731 732
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he saw three Bills in the Orders of the Day for amending the Common Law Process in Ireland. He wished to know whether the Irish Judges had been consulted on these Bills, and whether
 757
 Mr. O'Connell  then supposed that the Irish Judges had not been consulted; and it would better to get rid of them.
 Mr. O'Connell : I certainly shall; and I think sufficient reason has been given for my doing so by the hon. and learned Member himself.
 Mr. O'Connell  moved, as an Amendment, that it be committed that day six months.
 Mr. E. Ellice , jun., asked whether Government would state if they meant to adopt the clause?
 Lord J. Russell  said, that one of two courses might have been taken—either the clause might have been introduced into the Bill in that House, when it would have been fully considered, or it might have been entirely omitted, and not been supported by the Government; but here a different course was adopted; and the clause which had been objected to in the Commons, had been re-introduced on the third reading in the House of Lords.
 Captain Wemyss  would not have said one word upon this Bill, but for what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet. He (Captain Wemyss) was a coalowner, and paid 400 l. l.
 Captain Rous  begged to remind the House, that if the Colony of New Zealand was in the deplorable state described last night, it was not his fault that the subject was not discussed some weeks ago. No personal interests, no ill-will to a living man, induced him now to take an active part in this discussion; but a most irresistible desire to make a straightforward, clear statement—to put the British public and the House in possession of the real facts of the case—and to give the Directors of the New Zealand Company a full opportunity of defending and explaining the charges circulated against them. He then proceeded to observe upon the gallant manner in which the hon. Member for Liskeard had come forward to attack the Colonial Office, representing, as he did, a body of gentlemen of the purest philanthropy, who had bought New Zealand shares, not for their own private emolument, but solely for the benefit of mankind. That hon. Member had represented the New Zealanders as barbarous cannibals and notorious liars; and no doubt the object of the Company had been to bring them to the highest state of refinement and civilization. In 1827, while in command of one of Her Majesty's frigates, he had an opportunity of making what the hon. Member had been pleased to call "hurry-scurry" observations upon the state of the inhabitants of New Zealand. He sailed through Cook's Strait, touched at the east coast of the North Island, and stayed some days at the Bay of Islands. Eighteen years having elapsed, the natives
 762 763 s. Alligator, 764 "A recent change of opinion in this country on the subject of the rights of uncivilized nations, now forbids the invasion and confiscation of a territory which is as truly the property of its native inhabitants as the soil of England belongs to her landlords; and though it were as easy now to pursue the old course of substituting might for right, yet this would defeat a main object of the present undertaking. With our views, it would be a folly as well as a crime, to do violence to any inclination of the natives; and it follows that, in all our proceedings, the national independence of the New Zealanders, already acknowledged by the British Government in the appointment of a Resident and the recognition of a New Zealand flag, must be carefully respected; and especially, that we should not attempt to convert any part of their country into British territory without their full, free, and perfect understanding, consent, and approval." l., l. 765 l. bonâ fide l. l. 766
 Mr. Rutherfurd  would ask distinctly, did the Lord Advocate mean to adopt the clause or not? If he was not prepared to adopt it, then there was no reason for delay; the Amendments might be disposed of now.
 Mr. Rutherfurd  was understood to approve
 759
 Mr. Hawes  quite agreed in one observation made by the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, that the tactics of the hon. Member for Westminster were above all praise, if it were his intention to divert the attention of the House from the real object and purpose of the Motion before them, and to draw them into a discussion upon the affairs of the New Zealand Company, and the conduct of that Company towards the missionaries. But such tactics would fail. The real object of the discussion was one of far higher importance, and a far different purpose was entertained by those who introduced it. The object was to bring before the House the conduct of a great public department of the Colonial Office in the government of the Colony of New Zealand—to protect the interest of the settlers in that Colony — to develop the great national interests also which were at stake, and perilled by the policy of that department. It was not often that Colonial questions came under the consideration of the House, and when they did, they were too frequently discussed under the influence of party considerations, and sometimes for party purposes. But this debate—the whole course of it proved it—was not tainted and weakened by any such influence. The question raised by the hon. Member for Liskeard was not alone the conduct of the Government, but the principles of Colonial policy involved in that conduct. The House was called upon, and he rejoiced at the circumstance, to review the broad principles of our Colonial policy—to show, it might be, the narrow and mischievous action of the Colonial Office; but still, to keep the higher considerations in view, how was a great and most important Colony to be governed in future. The discussion had been conducted without party spirit, and would, he felt sure, be conducted without party spirit; for the interests of this country in New Zealand were so dear, and of so national a character, that their advocates could rely upon them alone to sustain them in debate, and throughout the country. For a long time he had taken a deep interest in the affairs of the Colony—not a pecuniary
 797 l. l. l. l. l. l. 798 
 
 Surveys £29,000 
 Public Works 7,000 
 Land presented to the Church, and subscriptions to the Church 4,000 799 800 "Owing principally to the causes above mentioned, there was a great stagnation in the Colony. After the first two years of excitement had passed, the public Revenue diminished rapidly; trade diminished, because there were neither exports nor funds; the people lived on the remains of whatever capital or property they had not expended; no titles to land were issued; Government payments became tardy and uncertain; salaries were allowed to be several months in arrear, the local Government having neither money nor credit; and to this unhappy condition was the Colony reduced, notwithstanding its extraordinary natural resources, at the termination of the year 1843." 801 802 803 Hope 804 "Your Committee, after much consideration, have arrived at the conclusion, that irreparable evils will ensue unless the Crown shall become the sole proprietor of the whole of the soil of New Zealand; and they are of opinion that a good system of colonization cannot be carried into execution by any other means." "That the soil of New Zealand, or any parts thereof, over which the sovereignty of the Crown shall have been established, should be vested solely in the Crown." 805 806 807
 The Lord Advocate  replied, to that day week.
 The Lord Advocate  would bring on the subject the next day.
 The Lord Advocate  rose to oppose the further progress of the Bill. He did not object to the 1st Clause of the Bill; but it was on the whole improperly drawn, and several clauses were imperfect. It would require very careful revision.
 Mr. Sergeant Murphy  moved the committal of the Common Law Process (England) Bill.
 Mr. Sergeant Murphy  said, that these Bills were originally introduced into the House of Lords, and had passed that House. The noble Lord from whom they originated had confided them to him; but he candidly informed the noble Lord that there existed great objections against the Bills by the members of the legal profession, when the noble Lord replied that he was not disposed to place himself in opposition to such parties. If, therefore, the hon. and learned Member for Cork (Mr. O'Connell) persisted in his Motion, he (Mr. Sergeant Murphy) should not object to it.
 Mr. G. W. Hope , in explanation said, the hon. Member for Leominster could not have heard accurately what he (Mr. Hope) had said as to the instructions given to Captain Grey. Considering the distance of the scene of operations, and the time that must necessarily elapse before he could arrive on the spot, the Government had not given him express instructions, but had intimated to him its decided opinion on the different subjects that would be brought under his attention. He (Mr. Hope) had stated, with respect to Captain Fitzroy, that the disapproval by the Government of his financial measures was one of the causes of his recall; that Lord Stanley also disapproved of his late proceedings with respect to the lands, as inconsistent with the instructions given him; that another cause of his recall was his conduct with regard to the Militia Bill, and his not having shown sufficient firmness in his proceedings with the natives. He had stated these to be the views of the Government; and he had stated that Captain Grey would not go out bound by any express orders to reimpose the customs duties abolished by Captain Fitzroy; that he was not bound by express instructions on other subjects, but that he had the directions of the Government to do what he considered advisable. He thought he had made this clear to the House, as the only course that should be adopted.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  explained that he ought not to have stated, last night, his opinion of the natives on the authority of Dr. Evans. He had received his information from several other persons; and also with respect to the land, Dr. Evans's information did not agree with his, though the despatches of Mr. Wakefield, of the 8th of October, 1844, and 1st of December, to the Company, bore him out.
 Mr. Aglionby  confessed, that he felt the difficulty of his position in rising to address the House upon this subject. Being a Director of the Company, and having a pecuniary interest in it, though but a small one, he was one of the parties whose conduct was under discussion. He, therefore, would rather have abstained from offering any remarks to the House upon the present occasion; but there were some points upon which he believed he might be permitted to touch. He had become connected with the Company advisedly; he had done so because it was an undertaking which he considered to have been commenced with the highest motives, and carried on with the best intentions. After three or four years' connexion with the Company, he had not regretted it down to that moment; and to the day of his death it would be a source of pride to him that he had been thus associated with gentlemen so high in character for benevolence and soundness of principle, as that Board of Directors of which he was a Member. The gallant officer the Member for Westminster, in his usual straightforward and honourable manner, had stated his opinions with regard to the Company, and said that their conduct demanded explanation. But the opinions he had expressed were founded upon representations which, though the gallant Officer might believe them, should be received with caution, for they were not entirely to be relied upon. He should abstain as much as possible from going into the details of the Company's wrongs; for this was a question of far wider importance than the interests of an individual, or of a company of individuals. It was a question of public interest; and he hoped it would be taken up, upon broad and statesmanlike views of policy, by those who had not the bias of personal feeling which it might be supposed he had. All the points to which the gallant Officer had alluded had been already investigated before a competent tribunal, a Select Committee appointed by that House; a tribunal where alone they could be fully and fairly searched into. He regretted that the hon. and gallant Gentleman did not cause
 775 ex-parte 776 l. l. l., l. 777 "Have you been employed for a considerable time under the Colonial Land and Emigration Commissioners, to superintend the emigration from this country?—I have. Have the proceedings of the New Zealand Company, in regard to their conduct of emigration, been submitted to you as the authority at the Colonial Land and Emigration Commission?—I received instructions from the Colonial Land and Emigration Commissioners to superintend the acts of the New Zealand Company. How long have you done that?—To the best of my recollection I should say it was three years ago. Will you state your opinion to the Committee, as to the manner in which the Company, during that time, had provided for the safety, health, and comfort of the labouring emigrants?—I cannot speak too highly of the mode in which the ships have been fitted, and I have been perfectly satisfied with the provisions supplied to them, and with their
 778 779
 Mr. Barkly : Sir, I am anxious to explain to the House the reasons which will compel me, however reluctantly, to support the Motion of the hon. Member for Liskeard, for going into Committee to consider the state of New Zealand. I was in hopes that I should have been spared the necessity of troubling the House
 780 ab initio 781 782 783 784 785 786 "That it is the sinfullest thing in the world to forsake or destitute a plantation once in forwardness; for besides the dishonour, it is the guiltiness of blood of many commiserable persons." "whose boundless minds Glow with the common love of all mankind" 787 788
 Mr. Labouchere  saw no ground for postponement. The chief Amendment to be considered was, the Clause which had been introduced by the House of Lords to give compensation to trustees of turnpike roads in Scotland, for any loss they might sustain by reason of any railway running near their roads. If the learned Lord Advocate was opposed to this clause, then there would be no need of discussion, because the House of Commons had already rejected a clause of a similar description, when inserted in the Bill that was first introduced. It was a clause which had been engrafted upon the Government Bill by parties unconnected with the Government, and the principle contained in it was of infinitely greater consequence than the whole of the remaining parts of the Bill.
 Mr. Labouchere  begged to ask how long it was proposed to defer the discussion on the Railway Clauses Consolidation (Scotland) Bill?
 Mr. Warburton  said, that the circumstances connected with the progress of this Bill were so peculiar as to call on the House for interference. It was first brought in without the objectionable clause; in its progress through the House the clause was surreptitiously inserted; the irregularity was discovered, the Bill was withdrawn, it was re-introduced without the clause, and sent up to the other House. Subsequently it was returned, the clause having been again inserted by their Lordships. He hoped, therefore, that either the clause would be withdrawn altogether, or another Bill be brought in by the noble and learned Lord.
 Mr. Brotherton  doubted whether it was not an infringement of their privileges for the House of Lords to insert a clause which the House of Commons had previously discarded.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that the Bill had been drawn by a Scotchman, and one supposed to be well acquainted with the legal phraseology of that country. The evil he sought to remedy was one of great importance. It was most objectionable that a person employing from two hundred to three hundred men, should be served on a Saturday night with as many summonses for the arrestment of the wages of his workmen; and that, in the event of his
 758
 Mr. T. Duncombe  moved the Second Reading of the Arrestment of Wages (Scotland) Bill.
 Sir G. Grey : If the hon. and learned Lord Advocate would state that he meant to abandon the clause, all necessity for discussion would be obviated.
 Sir Howard Douglas : I have read these bulky volumes with deep interest and profound attention, and approach this discussion with some knowledge of the facts of the case, and not without entertaining great dread of what may ensue. With some experience of Colonial affairs, I know as a professional man, the serious difficulties and the sad consequences of desultory warfare in a remote quarter of the world, with numerous tribes of people, in an extensive country, with a very insufficient force; and I speak with peculiar interest on this subject, inasmuch as that very small force consists of a detachment belonging to the regiment I have the honor to command. No Member of this House—no subject of this realm — attaches more importance to the extension
 808 "That in the measures which have been taken for establishing a British Colony in these Islands, those rules as to the mode in which colonization ought to be conducted, which have been drawn from reason and from experience, have not been sufficiently attended to. "That neither individuals, nor bodies of men belonging to any nation, can form Colonies, except with the consent and under the direction and control of their own Government; and that from any settlement which they may form without the consent of their Government, they may be ousted. This is simply to say, as far as Englishmen are concerned, that Colonies cannot be formed without the consent of the Crown. "That this attempt led at once to a violation of the law, by the first settlers entering
 809 "That it is to be regretted that more decisive measures were not adopted for preventing the sailing of the expedition under these circumstances; since it appears important, with reference to the future, to observe, that such unauthorized attempts at colonization cannot be permitted without leading to the most serious inconvenience. "That the irregular and precipitate mode of sending out the first settlers had the unfortunate effect of placing these settlers and the agents of the New Zealand Company, from the very outset, on unfriendly terms with the officer, whom Her Majesty's Government found it necessary immediately to dispatch from England, for the purpose of establishing the authority of the Crown in the Islands of New Zealand, has been one of the main causes of the difficulties with which it has had to contend. "That the conduct of the New Zealand Company in sending out settlers to New Zealand, not only without the sanction, but in direct defiance of the authority of the Crown, was highly irregular and improper." 810 John Russell: "The spirit of adventure having thus been effectually roused, it can no longer be doubted that an extensive settlement of British subjects
 811 "Amongst the many barbarous tribes with which our extended Colonial Empire brings us into contact in different parts of the globe, there are none whose claims on the protection of the British Crown rests on grounds stronger than those of the New Zealanders. They are not mere wanderers over an extended surface, in search of a precarious subsistence; nor tribes of hunters, or of herdsmen; but a people among whom the arts of government have made some progress—who have established by their own customs a division and appropriation of the soil—who are not without some measure of agricultural skill, and a certain subordination of ranks, with usages having the character and authority of law. In addition to this, they have been formally recognised by Great Britain as an Independent State; and even in assuming the dominion of the country, this principle was acknowledged, for it is on the deliberate act and cession of the chiefs, on behalf of the people at large, that our title rests. Nor should it ever be forgotten, that large bodies of the New Zealanders have been instructed by the zeal of our missionaries in the Christian Faith. It is, however, impossible to cast the eye over the map of the globe, and to discover so much as a single spot where civilized men brought into contact with tribes differing from themselves widely in physical structure, and greatly inferior to themselves in military prowess and social arts, have abstained from oppressions and other evil practices. In many the process of extermination has proceeded with appalling rapidity. Even in the absence of positive injustice, the mere contiguity and intercourse of the two races would appear to induce many moral and physical
 812 813 "That the uncivilized inhabitants of any country have but a qualified dominion over it, or a right of occupancy only; and that, until they establish amongst themselves a settled form of government, and subjugate the ground to their own uses, by the cultivation of it, they cannot grant to individuals not of their own tribe any portion of it, for the simple reason, that they have not themselves any individual property in it." 814 815
 Sir James Graham  said, this was a subject most difficult of adjustment, and involved a question of great nicety. It had engaged the attention of Her Majesty's Government, who had submitted it to the consideration of a very eminent legal authority, who at first was of opinion that the law should be abolished; but, after further consideration, it was found that there would be a great objection to the total abolition of the law. The fear was, that the sudden abolition of a system which had endured long in Scotland, would cause the workmen to be more than ever dependent on their employers, by making the latter their only creditors; and another evil result to be apprehended was, the revival of the truck system—a thing which he (Sir J. Graham) believed to be most injurious to the working classes. He had, however, no objection to permit the second reading of the Bill; and, previous to the Committee, his learned Friend the Lord Advocate would confer with the hon. Member for Finsbury, for the purpose of removing all cause of objection to its further progress.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that they were not brought in on the responsibility of Government. He believed that the hon. Member for Cork had the care of them.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that although he was not one of those who were entitled to compliment a new Member, yet he could not, in justice even to himself, rise to follow the
 789 790 791 l. l. s. d., l. s. d., l. l. 792 793 794 795 796
 Sir R. Peel  was not aware that the question would come on at that moment, and therefore he had not given it that attention which he otherwise should have done. He must say, he thought the objections made by the House of Commons against the clause on a former occasion appeared to him to be reasonably grounded. He did not consider it was right to establish a rule with respect to Scotland different from what prevailed in England. And, certainly, if it were proposed to make such a rule as this clause contained applicable to England, he should feel it to be open to very great objections. He had not at all changed his opinion on this subject. He
 761
 Sir R. Peel  would not pledge himself to adopt it.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the only reason he had for postponing it was to give room for the adjourned debate, and thus obviate any complaint that might be made of unfair advantage being taken. He would not then pledge himself to any definite course respecting the further progress of the Bill, until he had heard the discussion.
 Viscount Howick  concurred so much in a part of the concluding recommendations of the honourable and gallant Officer, and so entirely agreed with him in thinking that to extend to New Zealand the principles of self-government at the earliest possible moment was the remedy most likely to lead to a better state of affairs in that Colony, that he would not follow the hon. and gallant Officer through the earlier part of his speech. He was the more inclined to abstain from so doing, because a large portion of the hon. and gallant Officer's speech was taken up with finding
 816 817 818 819 820 821 822 823 824 825 826 827 bonâ fide 828 829 "I fear conflicting claims will be brought under the consideration of the Commissioners, the effect of which will be to create a violent ferment. Many large tracts of land were sold some years ago, at a price which bears no proportion to the present value; and this fact exasperates the natives, who imagine they were overreached by the purchasers. And another germ of discord is the conflicting claims of the natives, claims suggested, in many instances, by interested Europeans." 830 l. l. "The Waikato tribe, under the chief Te Whero-Whero, conquered and drove away the Ngati-awas from Taranaki in 1834, leaving only a small remnant, who found refuge in the mountains of Cape Egmont; and, having pretty well laid waste the country, and carried off a number of slaves, they retired to
 831 l. "One fact, however, that has every day forced itself upon my observation, I think applicable to my present argument. I have travelled over a country where I found millions of acres of first-rate available land, upon
 832 "I have mentioned this case as the type of one hundred others, merely to show your Lordship how difficult it is, unsupported by power, to conclude any real bargain with the natives; for it is evident that in this case Te Whero-Whero has presumed on his imposing position, and my evident weakness, and that I am compelled to assume an independence which I certainly cannot maintain." 833 834 "I was again assured of the loyalty of the settlers, and that they were actuated in their proceedings solely by a view to preserve the peace, and protect their property. I have great pleasure in informing your Excellency that Her Majesty's Government is fully established, and that both the European and native population are in a very satisfactory state." Cuba "On the 11th instant I returned to Auckland, having completed my proposed tour, the result of which has been most satisfactory, both to the European and native population." "The native chiefs of the district called on me, and expressed the greatest confidence in Her Majesty's Government, and their willingness to comply with every order I might give them, but they all demanded protection from the encroachments of the Company, who, they asserted, had most unscrupulously appropriated their lands." 835 "I informed the principal chief, Hiko, that the right of constructing roads through the Colony belonged to the Queen, and that whilst I faithfully supported the natives in their just rights, I would as firmly maintain those of Her Majesty, and that I trusted I should hear no more of the obstructing of such measures as were intended alike for the benefit of the native and European population. He received this hint with perfect good feeling, and promised that in future no interruption should be offered." "A party of natives had gone over and settled on the land on the Hutt which Mr. Mason had begun to cultivate, a considerable distance up the country through a rough and thickly-wooded country, some miles from any other settlement, and at present inaccessible by water. That he had visited the place and settled the matter, inducing the natives to go to their own reserves for cultivation." "The Governor cannot sanction such a mode of satisfying the native claims by the Company;"— 836 837 838 "Mr. Swainson having now made a formal complaint to the civil power, His Excellency will no doubt be put in possession of all the circumstances of the case by the proper authorities here; and I have only stated thus much, as coming under my own particular observation upon the two occasions when I felt it necessary to be present in order to assist, if possible, in restoring harmony between the parties; and I felt more especially called upon to do so in a case where the natives upon Mr. Swainson's land claimed no title to the land; and I, therefore, got Mr. Clark to tell them that I was sent there to do them justice as well as the white people, and that it was wrong in them to interfere with the latter while I was investigating the case. Other natives," he adds, "were very angry with the aggressor, and offered to put him off by force, a proceeding which we discouraged." "The Government can only interfere so far as to enforce the decision of a court of justice, with the exception of authorizing the mediation of the Protector of Aborigines, who has already been instructed to render every assistance to the settlers in arranging disputes between them and the natives. His Excellency had no doubt that misunderstandings of the nature of that now under consideration will cease, as soon as the land question shall have been adjusted, and the property of each party clearly defined; meantime, he can only earnestly recommend a continuance of that forbearance which has been shown by the settlers, as the best means of ensuring success in the great undertaking in which all are alike engaged, viz., the colonization of these beautiful islands by moral influence instead of physical force." 839 "Generally speaking, they (the natives) and the settlers have been upon pretty fair terms; nevertheless there are continually some trifling misunderstandings between them, but which by prompt attention have hitherto been quietly adjusted; and I have usually found both parties satisfied. Latterly, however, the natives from all parts have been almost hourly calling upon me for assistance and advice. I am obliged to keep a constant watch over both parties to prevent a collision, which would be attended with very serious conseqneuces. This bad feeling on the part of the natives, I am sorry to say, is rather encouraged than otherwise by some interested white men. I may here mention a recent instance. Rangihaiata,
 840 841 "It is with sorrow that for some time past, we have observed discontent and dissatisfaction widely spreading among the natives. The first establishment of the Queen's authority here was hailed by them with joy, and more extended intercourse tended for some time to increase their respect for us; but of late many events have occurred to diminish this, until it is now all but destroyed. It is well known that the natives regard us now neither with respect nor fear. Our physical power has been brought into contempt; but what is still more to be regretted, the moral influence which had been acquired over them has also been lost." 842 843 844 845 Sidney Herbert: 846
 Mr. Hanes  said, that his remedy was simply this, that he proposed that the Colonies should have a local self-government. The only duty which he had ventured to shadow out for the Board was this, that it should collect useful information relative to the Colonies, which information should be periodically published for the use of the public.
 Lord John Russell : When I addressed the House at the early part of the Session, I stated that I hoped the time would come when, instead of entering into the particular controversy which was carrying on, and had been carried on for some time, between the Colonial Department and the New Zealand Company, we should address ourselves to the question of the difficulties in which that young Colony is placed; and to endeavour, as the chief advisers of the Crown, and as part of the Legislature of this country, to rescue that Colony from what appeared
 930 931 "Her Majesty the Queen of England confirms and guarantees to the chiefs and tribes of New Zealand, and to the respective families and individuals thereof, the full, exclusive, and undisturbed possession of their lands and estates, forests, fisheries, and other properties which they may collectively or individually possess, so long as it is their wish and desire to retain the same in their possession. But the chiefs of the united tribes, and the individual chiefs, yield to Her Majesty the exclusive right of pre-emption over such lands as the proprietors thereof may be disposed to alienate, at such prices as may be agreed upon between the respective proprietors and persons appointed by Her Majesty to treat with them on that behalf." 932 933
 Lord J. Russell : I did not accuse the hon. Gentleman of charging Mr. Spain with pettifogging distinctions; but if it be the part of a clever attorney to meet certain cases by shifts and evasions, and trying to avoid the real point at issue, the hon. Gentleman opposite showed as much of the knowledge of the art last night as any attorney possibly could. The hon. Gentleman then went on with his argument, and in this respect he said that the first agreement was incompatible with the agreement afterwards made. Before I come to that point I must say that on these terms, "fully acquired and enjoyed," I do not think that in carrying out the Instructions there could have been any difficulty with respect to them, from the Treaty of Waitangi. I admit that there must be a fair, a liberal, and generous construction of the Treaty; there must be such a construction that, if the natives can show that the said property was in them and enjoyed by them, it should be left to them; but if you interpret the Treaty of Waitangi as you have interpreted it, you make it at variance with the interpretations of the whole law of Europe—you do this in favour of savages, and of men who are still remaining cannibals, and for them you give a wide interpretation, and such as was never thought of with respect to any former Treaty. I do not call that a fair interpretation; on the contrary, I call it an extravagant interpretation, not only fatal to your Colony, not only preventing your settlement of it, but one giving up the natives to be the prey of every land-jobber. We may reckon, perhaps, 100,000 persons in New Zealand of the aboriginal tribes, and 100,000 square miles, and about one person to every square mile; but still there are 20,000,000 of acres on the Middle island, and it is stated in one of the Papers that, though there are not more than 1,500 persons in any way inhabitants, yet still that in some way, on an island as large as England and part of Scotland, there is not an acre on which a native is not found to have a claim. Is not that an extravagant interpretation of the Treaty? I have shown that in the words I advised the Queen to use, in the Letters of Instruction and in the Charter I gave no such interpretation. I hope that this House will not sanction such an interpretation; and I hope that the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies will
 935 936 937 938 bonâ fide 939 primâ facie 940 "On the fifth point I quite concur with you, that there is no reason for saying that the Government is indebted to the Company for any given quantity of land; or that any specified quantity of land is due to them from the Government (unless under direct purchases from itself); or that the Government is bound to make compensation to the Company for its expenditure." 941 Rous: 942 "Further experience gained during the last six months, while I have been, if not actually residing amongst, yet in constant communication, with the natives respecting disputed claims to land, has led to the confirmation to the fullest extent of the opinion I have before expressed as to the absolute necessity of the introduction into this Colony of a naval and military force sufficiently strong to convince the natives of our power to enforce obedience to the law, and of the utter hopelessness of any attempt on their part at resistance to its execution. I have before so often had occasion to describe the cause which, in my opinion, first led the natives to doubt the justice of our intentions towards, and subsequently to suppose us too weak and too cowardly to attempt any coercive measures against them, that it is now needless to do more than advert to the effects produced; and the present actual state of the natives as regards their opinions of and intentions towards the European settlers. At the same time, I wish your Excellency clearly to understand that I intend my observations to apply to the districts in the South which I have visited, and which may be totally different from the districts in the Northern part of the Colony where the same causes have not existed to produce similar results. In the execution of my official duties as Commissioner in the Settlements of the New Zealand Company, in investigating the claims to land of that body, it has happened that, with scarcely an exception, I have had occasion to decide in favour generally of the natives. This circumstance would fairly
 943 "In Wellington, where property was taken that the natives had possessed and enjoyed, they were satisfied with the small amount of compensation that was given them; but on being told by interested parties that they were entitled to more, and that other tribes had got 150 when they had got but 50, and not being able to understand the difference which entitled the one to more than the other, all have become discontented, and that not only with the arrangement as to the land, but with your rule altogether. Governor Fitzroy says he is afraid of an insurrection. He says we have the right of pre-emption; but the natives cannot understand our arrangements. They are discontented, and I am told there will be an insurrection, so I must give up this part of the Treaty of Waitangi." 944 945 "I have travelled over a country where I have found millions of acres of first-rate available land, upon which the human foot had scarcely ever trod, showing the capability of this country for maintaining a very large population." 946 947
 Mr. Charles Buller  in reply: The last observation of the right hon. Gentleman called upon him to inquire as to which
 964 "Keep the word of promise to the ear, And break it to the hope." 965 "That the acknowledgment of a right of property on the part of the natives of New Zealand, in all wild land in their islands, after the Sovereignty had been assumed by Her Majesty, was not essential to the true construction of the Treaty of Waitangi, and was an error which had been productive of very injurious consequences." 966 primâ facie 967 968
 Mr. Cardwell  rose to explain. The noble Lord the Member for Sunderland had spoken of pettifogging distinctions in the Courts of New Zealand; and what he had said was, that under peculiar circumstances they did deserve to be accused of drawing pettifogging distinctions. He had said nothing intentionally to disparage Mr. Spain.
 Mr. Cardwell , although he could not acquiesce in the justice of the right hon. Gentleman's proposition to abstain from the defence of the Colonial Office, and of the noble Lord whose conduct had been so bitterly and, as he thought, so unjustly impugned, yet he was satisfied that the interests of our fellow countrymen, the settlers in New Zealand, and the destiny of those other subjects of the Crown, the aborigines, with whom our colonizing tendencies were throwing us into closer contact, constituted, in the eyes of the House, and of that people whom the House represented, the chief importance of this discussion. To those interests and to that destiny, he would, therefore, address his observations. But how were they to legislate for the future? Must they not of necesssity review the history
 867 868 "In the preceding letter (Mr. Somes to Lord Palmerston, 7th November, 1839), the right of Great Britain to sovereignty over New Zealand is maintained on various grounds, which it is unnecessary for the purposes of this Paper to controvert, or even to notice. The answers which would be made by Foreign Nations to such a claim are two:—first, that the British Statute Book has, in the present century, in three distinct enactments, declared that New Zealand is not a part of the British dominions: and, secondly, that King William IV., made the most public, solemn, and authentic declaration which it was possible to make, that New Zealand was a substantive and independent State. …. If these solemn acts of the Parliament and of the King of Great Britain are not enough to show that the pretension made by this Company on behalf of Her Majesty is unfounded, it might still further be repelled by a minute narrative of all the relations between New Zealand and the adjacent British Colonies, and especially by the judicial decisions of the Superior Courts of those Colonies. It is presumed, however, that after the preceding statement, it would be superfluous to accumulate arguments of that nature, and the rather because they could not be intelligibly stated without entering into long and tedious details." 869 "My Lords deem it necessary to suggest that the annexation of any part of that territory to the Government of New South Wales, and the exercise of the powers it is intended to confide to the Governor and Council of New South Wales, or to the officer about to proceed to New Zealand in the capacity of Lieutenant Governor, or any assumption of authority beyond that attaching to a British Consulate, should be strictly contingent upon the indispensable preliminary of the territorial cession having been obtained by amicable negotiation with, and free concurrence of, the native chiefs." "The acquisition of land by the Crown for the future settlement of British subjects must be confined to such districts as the natives could alienate without distress or inconvenience to themselves." —"always looked on Lord Normanby's letter as based on a very anomalous contradictory theory;" they had been "familiarised with great and sudden changes in the policy of Her Majesty's Government with respect to New Zealand," and they "inferred that Lord John Russell had abandoned Lord Normanby's notions." "It is impossible to reconcile the missionary system with that of the Company. In every respect they go on opposite principles. …. The Treaty of Waitangi went on what we have called the missionary principle. Lord John Russell adopted what may be called the colonizing principle in his agreement and other proceedings with the Company." 870 eo nomine: "The aborigines of New Zealand will, I am convinced, be the objects of your constant solicitude, as certainly there is no subject connected with New Zealand which the Queen and every class of Her Majesty's subjects in this kingdom regard with more settled and earnest anxiety. …. Yet amongst the many barbarous tribes with which our extended Colonial Empire brings us into contact in different parts of the globe, there are none whose claims on the protection of the British Crown rest on grounds stronger than those of the New Zealanders. They are not mere wanderers over an extended surface in search of a precarious subsistence; nor tribes of hunters, or of herdsmen; but a people amongst whom the arts of government have made some progress; who have established by their own customs a division and appropriation of the soil; who are not without some measure of agricultural skill, and a certain subordination of ranks; with usages having the character and authority of law. In addition to this, they have been
 871 "The sale and settlement of waste lands are the next of the general topics to which I propose to advert in this despatch. The Marquess of Normanby has anticipated and provided for the great and peculiar difficulty by which the regular colonization of New Zealand was impeded. I refer, of course, to the large claims advanced by persons in virtue of contracts or grants said to have been made by the native chiefs. In my present want of information as to the measures which may have been taken to give effect to his instructions, I can state merely that Her Majesty's Government perceive no reason for receding from them." " Downing Street, March "Sir—I am directed by Lord John Russell to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 26th ultimo, enclosing for his Lordship's consideration a prospectus of the proposed New Zealand Agricultural, Commercial and Banking Company, and inviting his Lordship's opinion of the extent to which the objects and intended operations of the Company are likely to meet with the sanction of Her Majesty's Government. I have his Lordship's directions to acquaint you, in reply, that as, by a series of Acts of Parliament, as well as by the measures formerly taken by the Executive Government
 872 "Send the men away: do not sign the paper; if you do, you will be reduced to the condition of slaves, and be obliged to break stones for the roads. Your land will be taken from you, and your dignity as chiefs will be destroyed." 873 "You must be our father. You must not allow us to become slaves. You must preserve our customs, and never permit our lands to be wrested from us." "Should any question arise as to the extinction of the native title to the lands comprehended within the settlement of 110,000 acres, the same principles must be applied to the solution of them. The Government has hitherto assumed, and is still willing to assume, that the native title has been fairly extinguished; but the Government must reserve to itself the right of inquiring into and redressing any injury that may be proved to have been committed; and this is the more necessary, as the Government was in no way a party in the purchase of their lands, and as His Excellency is not even, at the present moment, informed what has been paid for them." "I have received your despatch of the 29th of May last, transmitting a copy of the address with which you opened the Session of the Legislative Council of New South Wales, and in which you stated that a Bill, to empower
 874 "You will understand, however, that it is not my intention to abandon the plan of instituting a Commission to inquire into the titles or claims to land in New Zealand; but that, on the contrary, I fully intend to carry it into execution; and that I write the present instructions in order that means may be taken for executing it with the greater accuracy, as well as acknowledged impartiality. For this purpose, I shall probably find it necessary to send out a Commissioner from this country." "The shadow of the land goes to Queen Victoria, but the substance remains with us." 875 "A report prevails that a conspiracy against the Government and military exists among many of the chiefs. I will have the parties watched. If there is any truth in it, it may be ascribed to the mischievous stories circulated by low and abandoned Europeans, who try to persuade the natives that we only wait until we are strong enough, to take possession of all the land, and sell it, irrespective of the native claims." "It being understood that the Company have invested large sums of money in the purchase of lands in New Zealand from native chiefs and others;"— 876 "With regard to lands acquired by any other title than by grants from the Crown, it was proposed to subject the titles to inquiry by a Commissioner." "They had been put, in regard to their previous purchases, on precisely the same footing as any private individual." maximum s. s. maximum 877 "It is presumed that the Company has acquired a valid title from the natives to a very large territory on both sides of Cook's Strait, to which they lay claim, and to which their settlements are to be confined; a Commission is to decide on the validity of the presumed purchases from the natives by the Company. Provided always, that if any part of the said lands shall, upon due inquiry, be found not to have been validly purchased from them before the date of the alleged purchase by the Company, full compensation shall be made to the natives, or the previous purchaser, as the case may be, by the Company." 878 "No circumstance has occurred since the commencement of all the operations of the Company so satisfactory to me as the remonstrance made by the Directors to Lord Stanley against the proceedings of the Commissioner of Land Claims, with respect to the Company's titles… The Court is not ignorant of the duties which devolved upon me in the early days of the Company's existence; of the necessity of acquiring a territory on which to locate the emigrants destined to follow me from England with so little delay, without the sanction, if not in direct opposition to the wishes, of the Government: of the difficulty in obtaining, in a limited period, a clear and indefeasible title to sufficient land to enable the Company to meet its engagements, in a country where such confusion as to proprietorship existed as I found here … I was not unaware of the implied understanding upon which the agreement was founded, that the title to the territory to which the Company's operations were restricted was to be the subject of investigation by a Crown Commissioner; and in this opinion I was confirmed
 879 "The Company stated on the face of the agreement that they had 'invested large sums of money in the purchase of land in New Zealand from the native chiefs and others;' and of the lands so alleged to be purchased they asked to be permitted to receive, and were promised that they should receive, a grant from Her Majesty of a specified amount, in consideration of which they surrendered to Her Majesty all title or pretence of title to the larger amount, the native claims to which they alleged themselves to have extinguished by purchase. Lord Stanley cannot now permit it to be maintained either that the natives had no proprietary rights, in the face of the Company's declaration that they had purchased those very rights, or that it is the duty of the Crown either to extinguish those rights or to set them aside in favour of the Company. The fact of the validity or the invalidity of the purchase was known to the Company, and to them alone; the assumed validity was the
 880 s. 881 primâ facie 882 883
 Mr. Edward Ellice  (Coventry)  said: My hon. Friend the Member for Guildford has been kind enough to permit me to take precedence of him in this debate. I am anxious to do so both for my own convenience, and also in order that at this stage of the discussion I may endeavour to extract from Her Majesty's Government some distinct statement as to their future policy on this subject. We have had the whole question brought before us by my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Liskeard (Mr. Charles Buller) in a speech characterized by more than his usual vigour of development. He opened to the House the very complicated and difficult case on the part of the New Zealand Company. That speech was followed by the Under Secretary for the Colonies, denying the imputations cast upon the Department of which he is a member, in the course of that statement. That was followed by various speeches from hon. Gentlemen; by the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, who addressed the House, in reply to certain attacks made by my hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Buller) upon the missionaries in the New Zealand Islands; by the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster, who denied (in a tone and temper which, while disagreeing with many of
 854 855 856 857 858 859 860 861 862 l. 863 864 865 866
 Mr. Colquhoun : In one respect I perfectly agree with the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down—that in no Colony ought either missionaries or ecclesiastics to have any part in its political government. But when I find that every Colonial Minister, from Lord Glenelg to the noble Lord who now holds the Seals of Office, however various their sentiments, all agree in acknowledging the services which have been rendered by the missionaries to the social condition of New Zealand, I must consider this as ample testimony that the censure cast upon them by the hon. Gentleman is unfounded; and that they have not allowed themselves to be seduced from their proper sphere into one with which they have no concern. I have read, Sir, with great care, the voluminous evidence presented both last year and in former years, upon the state of New Zealand; and the conclusion to which I have been forced by these documents is, that the condition of that Colony is not satisfactory. I pass by, for the present, the form of the Motion submitted by the hon. and learned Gentleman. I take the practical question raised by him to be this:—Is the Colony of New Zealand at present in such a state as that Parliament ought to regard it with satisfaction? Or are there circumstances in its condition so grave and urgent, that it becomes necessary for this House to claim the prompt interposition of Government, and to require that the policy pursued towards it should be either modified or changed? I do not agree with the hon. Member for Guildford, that the Colonial Office is, either now, or in past times, so weakly administered as to be swayed by any external influences which can be brought to bear on it I do not believe that Mr. Coates, whose name I mention with the utmost respect, can exercise any unbecoming power over the Colonial Administration. Does any Gentleman
 903 904 905 l., l. 906 907
 Mr. Sheil : Sir, although the Papers are
 908 909 910 "That the acknowledgment by the local Authorities of a right of property on the part of the natives of New Zealand in all wild land in
 911 912 "That the renewal of differences with the Colonial Department, and the simultaneous occurrence of distractions and disputes in the Colony, having produced universal dissatisfaction
 913 914
 Mr. Mangles : Sir, I promise the House, if they will favour me with a hearing, that I will confine myself strictly to a single branch of the large subject before us. It is not my intention to enter at all upon the general question of colonization, nor upon the wrongs which I believe that the New Zealand Company has suffered at the hands of the Colonial Office and the local Government. I propose to consider simply the policy of the Church Missionary Society and of the Government in relation to the aboriginal inhabitants of New Zealand, and the effects of that policy upon its immediate objects, in the first instance, and, through them, upon the British subjects who have emigrated to that Colony. I have advisedly placed the Church Missionary Society first, because it is the author of the policy which the Government have adopted; and I shall contrast that policy, in its principles and results, with what I believe to be the line of conduct which the British Government ought to have pursued when it took possession of New Zealand—a step the delay of which has occasioned great
 884 885 886 887 888 "In this way, district after district has become void of its inhabitants; and the population is, even now, but a remnant of what it was in the memory of some European residents." 889 890 891 892 "By individuals at all acquainted with the real circumstances of the case, for the express purpose of deceiving either the Government, or the public, or both." "Unless a defined and specific share in the Government, of the country be allotted to the missionaries, the British Government has no right to expect that that influential body will give a hearty support to its representative." 893 894 895 896 897 "From an intimate knowledge of the character and conduct of John Heki during the last eleven years, as well as from the sentiments he has more than once expressed to myself, I have no hesitation in affirming that the act of cutting down the flagstaff was a
 898 "The honourable Member" (Dr. Martin), (replied the Governor, and apparently he thought it a perfectly satisfactory answer) "seemed desirous that he should, in imitation of Governor Grey, drive the people from the town into the bush. Did he (Dr. Martin) not know the bush was not prepared for them; that there was no safety for them, and no food?" 899 900 —"at least to a considerable extent, as trustees for the natives, to rescue them from being prevailed upon to alienate their lands to Europeans of a different class." "If the missionaries have made large purchases, has it been in violation of the orders and instructions they have received?—Contrary to the spirit of the orders they have received, that is, quite contrary to the views of the Society. Their only object in permitting them to have land is, that they should have just enough to supply their own wants, and to provide for their children." 901 902
 Sir James Graham : At the outset of the observations which I think it my duty to address to the House, I am anxious to express
 915 916 917 "It is impossible," says the writer, "to reconcile the missionary system with that of the New Zealand Company. The missionaries do all they can to prevent colonization from taking place, and use every endeavour to keep the New Zealanders away from the Europeans; whereas our object is to colonize the country, and to secure all the waste lands to the Crown." "There are two systems essentially antagonist to each other, and which cannot be reconciled." 918 "With regard to all lands in the Colony acquired under any other title than that of grants made in the name and on behalf of Her Majesty, it is proposed that the titles of the claimants should be subjected to the investigation of a Commission to be constituted for that purpose. The basis of that inquiry will be the assertion, on behalf of the Crown, of a title to all lands situate in New Zealand which have heretofore been granted by the chiefs of those islands according to the customs of the country, and in return for some adequate consideration. Lord John Russell is not aware that any exception can arise to this general principle; but if so, every such exception will be considered on its own merits, and dealt with accordingly."
 Sir J. Graham : I am sorry to misrepresent the hon. Member; but, at all events, my hon. Friend the Member for Newcastle-under Lyne fell into the same error with myself, and he even adopted what both he and I believed the hon. Member to have recommended. The hon. Gentleman, however, did observe, and I think he will admit that he made this remark—that the Colonial Office attended a great deal too much to home interests. Now, I hope the House will pardon me if, without meaning to say anything in the least offensive to the New Zealand Company, I remind the House of the powerful influence attached to that Company—a matter to which I think I may allude when a charge of attending too much to home interests has been made against my noble Friend. I will not enumerate the numbers, but I see upon both sides of the House a number of Members of this House who are avowedly Members of that Company. The ramifications of that interest are most extensive, and also most powerful; and in passing I would observe, that if my noble Friend at the head of the Colonies had yielded, as the hon. Member for Lambeth says he is accustomed to yield, to home influence and to home interests, he would have experienced a much more quiet life than he has enjoyed for the last few years; the whole of the discussion now entered on might have been spared, though by yielding to home interests he might indeed have sacrificed the interests of 100,000 New Zealanders in the antipodes. Had he consulted his own ease and quiet he might have gained a dishonourable repose; but he would have adopted a course exactly the reverse of that which he has pursued. Now, I would further observe in passing, that I think the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Liskeard (Mr. C. Buller), was also somewhat unjust in the comments which he made upon the Colonial Office. He said that the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Lord Palmerston) suffered no nonsense which might be addressed from the Colonial Office to the Foreign Office,
 924 925 926 primâ facie 927 928 Ellice: Howick: 929
 Sir Robert Peel : Sir, it would be unfortunate if any differences connected with party considerations, or any conflict that there may have been between the Colonial Department and the New Zealand Company, should divert our attention from the consideration of what is due to the interests of that Colony which is the immediate subject of this discussion. Sir, I willingly admit that the interests of that Colony are recommended to us by many considerations. I look at the extent of that Colony, at its line of coast, at the quantity of land in it
 948 949 J. Russell: J. Russell: 950 951 "These representative governments in North America have grown up, I know not how; but there they are. The people who left this country, left it with those feelings of pride, and of love, and attachment to liberty which belong to self-government. They began with municipal institutions. Distance and absence of control gradually nurtured them, so that from small beginnings they grew up into representative assemblies; and there I find them. I will not inspect them too narrowly; I will not inquire too close into their establishment. I believe they are the natural growth of such institutions; and those who have colonies, especially British Colonies, must expect such results." 952 953 954 "That, deeply impressed with the duty of acting on the principles of justice and humanity with the native inhabitants of British Colonial settlements, we call upon the Crown to adopt different principles from those which had been heretofore acted upon in some of our Colonial establishments." 955 "It may be presumed that the native inhabitants of any land have an incontrovertible right to their own soil—a sacred right, however, which appears not to have been understood by this country." 956 "I have concurred with that Committee in thinking that the increase of national wealth and power, promised by the acquisition of New Zealand, would be a most inadequate compensation for the injury that must be inflicted on this kingdom itself by embarking in a measure essentially unjust, and but too certainly fraught with calamity to a numerous and inoffensive people, whose title to the soil and sovereignty of New Zealand is indisputable, and has been solemnly recognised by the British Government." 957 animus "The Queen, in common with Her Majesty's predecessors, disclaims for herself every pretence to seize on the island, or to attempt to govern it on the part of Great Britain, unless the free and express approbation of the natives according to established usage be obtained. Her Majesty's Government authorize you to treat with the aborigines for the whole or any part of the island, which they will be willing to place under Her dominion." "Although the natives may regard your proposal with fear and distrust, these are impediments which may be gradually overcome by your sincerity and intercourse with them." "You will, I trust, find your most powerful auxiliaries among the missionaries, who are highly deserving of your confidence." "Having by these methods obviated the dangers of the acquisition of large tracts of country by mere land-jobbers, it will be your duty to obtain, by fair and equal contracts with the natives, the cession to the Crown of such waste lands as may be progressively required for the occupation of settlers resorting to New Zealand." 958 "To the natives, or their chiefs, much of the land of the country is of no actual use, and in their hands it possesses scarcely any exchangeable value." "We always have very serious doubts whether the Treaty of Waitangi, made with naked savages by a Consul invested with no plenipotentiary powers, without ratification by the Crown, could be treated by lawyers as anything but a praiseworthy device for amusing and pacifying savages." "Among the many barbarous tribes with which our extended Colonial Empire brings us into contact in different parts of the globe, there are none whose claims on the protection of the British Crown rest on grounds stronger than those of the New Zealanders. They are not mere wanderers over an extended surface in search of a precarious subsistence, nor tribes of hunters or of herdsmen, but a people among whom the arts of government have made some progress; who have established by their own customs a division and appropriation of the soil; who are not without some measure of agricultural skill, and a certain subordination of ranks, with usages having the character and authority of law. In addition to this, they have been formally recognised by Great Britain as an independent state, and even in assuming the dominion of the country this principle was acknowledged; for it is on the deliberate act and cession of the chiefs, on behalf of the people at large that our title rests." 959 "Preparatory to the meeting, I had appointed a levee to be held at Mr. Busby's house, at eleven o'clock, to which I invited all the principal European inhabitants, the members of the Church of England and Catholic Missions, and all the officers of this ship, and was highly gratified to find that nearly every one either here or in the neighbourhood, favoured me with their attendance……I then read the Treaty, a copy of which I have the honour to enclose; and on doing so, I dwelt on each Article, and offered a few remarks explanatory of such passages as they might be supposed not to understand. Mr. Henry Williams, of the Church Missionary Society, did me the favour to interpret, and repeated in the native tongue, sentence by sentence, all I said. When I had finished reading the Treaty, I invited the chiefs to ask explanations on any points they did not comprehend, and to make any observations or remarks on it they pleased. Twenty or thirty chiefs addressed the meeting, five or six of whom opposed me with great violence, and at one period with such effect and so cleverly, that I began to apprehend an unfavourable impression would be produced. Revewah, while addressing me, turned to the chiefs and said, 'Send the man away; do not sign the paper; if you do, you will be reduced to the condition of slaves, and be obliged to break stones for the roads. Your land will be taken from you, and your dignity as chiefs will
 960 "'You must,' he continued, 'be our father. You must not allow us to become slaves. You must preserve our customs, and never permit our lands to be taken from us.'" "One or two other chiefs who were favourable, followed him in the same train, and one reproached a noisy fellow named Kitigi, of the adverse party, with having spoken rudely to me. Kitigi, stung by the remark, sprang forward and shook me violently by the hand, and I received the salute apparently with equal ardour. This occasioned amongst the natives a general expression of applause, and a loud cheer from the Europeans, in which the natives joined; and thus the business of the meeting closed; further consideration of the question being adjourned to Friday at eleven o'clock, leaving, as I said, one clear day to reflect on my proposal." 961 962 963 bonâ fide
 Colonel Wood,  in seconding the Motion, said, that, although he did not often agree in opnion with the hon. Member for Stockport, he had great pleasure in supporting his views on the present occasion. This was a question on which all parties might amicably meet. It was neutral ground, on which they were prepared to state their opinions; but having examined the elements on which the Committee had founded their Report, he hoped that he was not transgressing his usual principle in opposing the decision which had been laid before the House. In doing this he would impress on the Committee that he intended no disrespect in seconding the Motion of the hon. Member opposite. But there were other reasons why he should ask for a consideration, or, rather, a reconsideration of this Motion. The five Gentlemen on this Committee had refused their adherence to the recommendation of the Board of Trade, which was in conformity with the side of the question he had taken. The five Gentlemen of that, Committee had stated their reasons for preferring the broad gauge to the narrow gauge. The Committee had taken an interest in this question which was highly creditable to them; but they had not calculated on the interest which it was likely to excite in others who were Members of that House. It was true, that they had considered the inconvenience of the narrow gauge, and an immense amount of time and money had been expended in endeavouring to ascertain the respective merits of the two gauges; but it appeared to him that the Committee had come to their decision, and determined between the two gauges from strong  ex-parle 977
 Mr. Bernal  was sorry that all the speaking seemed to be on one side. No one appeared disposed to controvert what had been laid down by the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Chairman of the Committee. He thought the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary was bound by every principle and every argument to support the Select Committee. These new tribunals were mere playthings, or they were serious tribunals. If the Amendment were agreed to, the consequence would be, that before the Royal Commission could make a Report, the Session would be at an end, and all further progress with the Bills now pending would be stopped till next year.
 986
 Sir T. Acland  said, that the question brought forward in the Amendment of the hon. Member for Stockport might be a proper subject for the consideration of the House; but he thought that that question should not be raised in the case of a particular Railway Bill. It might be very desirable that the whole question should be thoroughly investigated; but he denied that the investigation ought to take place upon that occasion. Such a mode of proceeding would be most unfair. He would tell the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Board of Trade, that it could not be fair to raise the question then, and to call for a decision which would have the effect of throwing out a particular Bill. These two great companies had fought their battle before the Committee for many weeks, at an expense of several thousands of pounds; and it was not fitting that the battle should again be renewed in consequence of a decision of that House. He said that if they reversed the decision of the Committee, they would do no credit to the House. He asked them, why they had not before decided the question at issue? and why the point had then been raised for the first time? Let them pass the present Bill, and they might, next Session, refer the whole question to a Commission, if they should think fit.
 Mr. V. Stuart,  amidst much confusion, was understood to urge, that the ironmasters of Staffordshire had never yet been able to make use of the London and Birmingham line, in consequence of the narrow gauge.
 Mr. Villiers Stuart  would not assent to the Amendment. He believed that the bodies of the trucks could easily be transhipped. He had seen this successfully done on a large scale.
 Sir T. D. Acland  contended that his noble Friend was in error in his assumption as to the difference of charge.
 Mr. Williams  objected to going into a Committee of Supply at that hour of the night, particularly as several hon. Members had left under an impression that it would not be proceeded with.
 Mr. Bernal  was far from saying that the public press should not always be wide awake to the conduct of stipendiary magistrates; but, at the same time, he did say that there had been a run, and a most severe run, against Mr. Twyford. Daily and weekly, there were the most violent attacks upon him in the public press of this country—attacks exceeding in severity anything that he had witnessed before. He (Mr. Bernal) had known Mr. Twyford for many years, and he had asked him about the circumstances of the case; and from what that gentleman had mentioned to him (Mr. Bernal) he was bound to confirm the statement of the right hon. Baronet opposite; and he should wish the House to remember, in addition, that until recently the magistrate had no discretion as to whether he should take bail in the case of felonious assaults; that discretion was only given to him by the 5th and 6th of Victoria. There was also one other point to which the right hon. Baronet had not referred, and that was, that Mr. Mayer said he was prepared to commit the same assault over again. As he understood, Mr. Twyford conceived, if he accepted bail in the case, and Mr. Mayer should strike the complainant with a stick upon the head, and death should ensue, that he (the magistrate) would thereby be placed in an extremely delicate position. He would only further add, that in the vestry of the parish of St. Marylebone, he believed that the opinion was, that the case had gone far enough. He therefore thought, with all deference to the judgment of his hon. Friend behind him (Mr. Williams), that it would have been far better if he had suffered the present matter to have rested.
 Colonel Anson  said, he had the authority of the ironmasters and coalowners of South Staffordshire to say, that upon reading this Railway Bill, notwithstanding there was some ambiguity in it, they were satisfied with a pledge they had received, that the whole of the toll required would be but one penny per ton per mile for fifty miles; and also he could state, that those who had come up to watch particularly the interests of the ironmasters of the county of Stafford were perfectly satisfied.
 Mr. W. O. Stanley  thought, as a general rule, that the decisions of the Committees ought to be supported, unless special grounds could be advanced in support of an opposite cause. In this case it appeared to him that such special grounds could be shown. The hon. Member went into some details in support of his view, but the noise which prevailed in the House prevented their purport from reaching the gallery, and declared that he should support the Amendment.
 Lord George Bentinck  also supported the Amendment, as the expense on the broad gauge was nearly 100 per cent. on the carriage of goods more than on the narrow gauge.
 Mr. Newdegate  begged to protest against having the broad gauge brought up to Rugby, to the serious injury of the manufacturers and millers of the north. He could answer for Derbyshire, Leicestershire, and Warwickshire, that the quality of the coals was improving, and the trade increasing considerably in those districts.
 Mr. Maclean  said, the expense of shifting the coals from one line to another would be enormous. Hon. Gentlemen might not be aware that the cost of a common waggon for the conveyance of coals on a railway was from 24 l. l.,
 Mr. E. Buller  rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice at the commencement of the Session, for a repeal of the duty on tallow. The right hon. Baronet had altogether omitted that article in his recent commercial changes. Similar articles, oils, &c., had been reduced in 1832, and last year had been altogether repealed; but tallow had not been touched. The most serious consequences always arose from removing the duties from similar articles; but leaving the duty upon one particular article. The use of the one article was discontinued. The operation of this principle had been shown in the case of tallow. Its consumption had been very much reduced, to the extent of 2,000,000 or 3,000,000 cwt., while the consumption of a rival ariicle—oil, had increased. Cocoa nut and palm oil had nearly quadrupled its consumption, and this increase had taken place since the reduction of duty. He saw no reason for retaining the duty upon tallow, while he saw every reason for repealing it. The tallow annually exported from Russia amounted in value to 2,000,000 l. 1005
 Mr. Cardwell  denied that no notice had been given of bringing on Supply. What he stated on the preceding evening was, that he hoped he should not be asked to pledge himself not to bring on Supply on any Monday night, or any Friday, at this period of the Session. With regard to the hon. Member for Finsbury, he was surprised that he should complain of having no opportunity of bringing forward his Motion, when several opportunities had already presented themselves without the hon. Member availing himself of them.
 Mr. Cardwell  assured the hon. Gentleman he had no intention whatever of taunting him with respect to his Motion.
 Mr. Shaw,  as chairman of the Committee, wished to observe that they had looked upon the Oxford and Rugby line as a part of the project of the Great Western Company, and they, therefore, wished the entire question which was to come before the House to stand or fall together, ft was quite necessary that there should be a change from one gauge to the other, on some point of the line. The opinion of the Board of Trade was, that wherever the traffic was least the alteration should be made, and that the interruption ought therefore to take place at Oxford. It was clear that an inconvenience should be submitted to somewhere, and the question for the House to decide was, whether the broad gauge was to go up to Rugby, or the narrow gauge to go down to Oxford.
 Mr. Shaw  said, as Chairman of the Committee whose Report was then under consideration, he felt called upon to make a few observations. He would rather have reserved himself until he should have heard all the objections taken to the decision or Report of the Committee; but he observed such an unusually large attendance of Members, that he could not but suspect that some of them were not very thoroughly acquainted with the merits of the question upon which they were about to vote; and he would, therefore, take that early opportunity of briefly stating to the House what the Committee had done, and also what he considered of almost more importance in the present instance—what the Committee were erroneously supposed to have done, but what they, in fact, had not done. To take the latter first; great excitement prevailed out of doors with reference to the question of the broad and narrow gauges, and it was imagined that the decision of the Committee turned upon the relative merits of the two gauges; but it was no such thing—they had carefully abstained from even intimating an opinion upon that point. It was unnecessary, and he thought would therefore have been un-
 978 res integra, 979 980 981 bonâ fide 982 983 vivâ voce 984
 Mr. Muntz  had no interest in any railway whatever, neither was he interested in the success of either the broad or the narrow gauge. As to his constituents, they were divided with respect to the relative merits of the systems. The right hon. Baronet said, that he could not determine the question, and it was evident that the Board of Trade could not settle it. To what authority could they then refer? They were mistaken if they imagined that the question would be set at rest by their decision on this case. He, therefore, called upon the House to pause and take the matter into their most serious consideration. In his opinion it was a great neglect on the part of the Government to have allowed two gauges in the first instance, and he advised them now to stop in time, and pay whatever sum might be necessary out of the Consolidated Fund. It was very easy to say leave both gauges; but would they say as much when they found the result to be collision, loss of time, and probably loss of life? He spoke on public grounds alone, having, as he had before stated, no interest in any line; and, as a man many years conversant with mechanical pursuits, he had formed one of a deputation to the Board of Trade, the object of which was to represent to the Board the injury which would be inflicted on the midland counties by sanctioning two gauges of different width; but he was not the author of any letter on the subject. He could not be accused of any partiality towards the Board, having opposed its appointment; but he felt bound to state that he never met more fair or intelligent men than the Members of that Board. They asked him and his colleagues whether they were interested in any railway, whether they thought the existence of two
 997
 Mr. Home Drummond  was still of opinion that Oxford was the much more proper place at which to make the change of gauge.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the hon. Member for Dumfries having abandoned his Motion on the duties on butter and cheese—
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that as the hon. Member who had brought forward the present Motion (Mr. Buller) had done so more for the purpose of bringing the subject of the tallow duty under the consideration of the Government, than in the expectation of being able to effect any immediate alteration of the duty, he should not follow him into the details of the question; though, had this Motion been pressed, he should have felt it to have been his duty to have resisted it, as well as the Motion of the hon. Member for Dumfries, had it been brought forward, on the ground that it would be impossible, after the great reductions in
 1006
 Mr. Labouchere  observed, that although he could not say his constituents had any interest in this question, still he was himself very anxious to see a proper decision come to, as he believed it would affect the character of the House itself, and have a very important bearing upon the general interests of the country. He had heard the debate of to-night called "the battle of the gauges;" but he believed it to be a battle between two great, rival railway companies, who, by canvassing for the last few weeks, had mustered their forces on the present occasion. He had watched during the present Session of Parliament, with peculiar anxiety, the progress of railway proceedings, because he was most anxious that that fever of gambling which prevailed among the public of late, should be stayed as much as possible. There was but one way in which that system could be successfully opposed by that House; which was, that they should adhere, as strictly as might be, to those Rules of the House which, with especial care, had been formed upon the most impartial principles. He acknowledged, therefore, that he approached this question with a very strong bias to support the decision of the Select Committee. The question before the House was, whether they should stop the further progress of the Bill which was then before them. In his opinion there was no pretence for doing it. The right hon. and learned Gentleman the Chairman of the Committee, had distinctly told them that the question raised before the Committee was not as to the width of the gauge, but as to the line of railway to be taken. Upon that question—that of the line—it was utterly impossible for the House to come to any decision, because they had not the means of forming any opinion. It depended upon a thousand circumstances which it was impossible for the House to have any cognizance of. The House on such a question invariably gave its vote exclusively upon the confidence they reposed in the Gentlemen who constituted the Committee. The Committee in this instance had decided contrary to the Report of the Board of Trade. He was desirous of speaking without any disrespect of the Board of Trade. But when a Committee had investigated the merits of a case on which the Board of Trade had made a Report, and had come, after a full consideration, to a different conclusion from that of the Board of Trade,
 985
 Dr. Bowring  objected to going into Supply, as several hon. Members had left under an impression that the Estimates would not be brought forward.
 Dr. Bowring  then moved, that the duty on pine logs, not exceeding ten feet in length and eleven inches square, be reduced to 12 s. d. s.
 Mr. Parker  moved, that the duties on the importation of Copper Ore should cease and determine. The system, he said, which had been adopted in respect of those duties in 1842, and under which large importations had taken place, was, confessedly, only an experimental arrangement, and had nothing of finality about it. If the hon. Baronet the Member for Cornwall had any fear of the introduction of copper ore free of duty, a Committee might be appointed to inquire into the operation of the law of 1842. He thought the evidence would show that a change might be made without any danger to the interests which his hon. Friend represented. If the trade was made free it would tend to keep the whole copper trade of the world in the hands of the people of this country; it would keep the price of copper steady, and would be of advantage, as it would give facilities for mixing the rich foreign ore with the poorer one of this country. It would be of the greatest advantage to the shipping interest of the country. For these reasons he would move, that all the duties on the importation of copper should cease.
 Mr. Trelawny  said, Sir Francis Burdett used to say of a certain Cornish Member, that he was for free trade in everything
 1007 1008
 Mr. Cobden  rose to move, as an Amendment to the Motion of the noble Lord—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, to issue a Commission to inquire whether, in all future Acts for the construction of Railways, provision ought to be made for securing one uniform gauge, and whether it would be practicable and expedient to bring existing Lines of Railway in Great Britain, and Lines now in course of construction, into uniformity of gauge; and, if so, to report upon the best mode of carrying these objects into effect in the present Session of Parliament." 973 974 975 976
 Mr. Godson  said, that the Report ought not to be received, but that the Bill must be recommitted, for the sake of the public. The Report made by the Committee was contradicted by the clauses introduced into the Bill, which had been increased frm 52 clauses to 110 clauses. This Com-
 998 "With regard to the guarantees stated in the Report of the Board of Trade to have been offered by the London and Birmingham Company, and to have appeared to the Board of Trade to hold out a prospect of permanent and certain advantage to the public, the Committee have required the same terms substantially from the Great Western Company, and they will be found embodied in clauses added to the Bill by the desire of the Committee." "One article of such tariff to be, that coals and iron are to be carried at rates not exceeding 1 d. "For coal, ironstone, salt, &c, is fixed at 1 d. "For coal, ironstone, salt, &c, is 1½ d. "All articles carried a less distance than six miles are to be charged as for six miles." d. d. d.
 Mr. Spooner  supported the Amendment. He did not think that it was common fairness to the projectors of the Birmingham line to give this competing line all its length. Competition was all very well, but it might be carried too far.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  complained that he had been prevented bringing forward his Motion relative to some false Returns made to that House by the Post Office, by the Supply Motion being brought forward when no Notice of Supply had been given. He strongly objected to entering into Supply after eleven o'clock at night.
 Mr. Duncombe  seconded the Motion, and proceeded to say, that it was rather unusual for a Member of the Government to state, as had been stated by the hon. Gentleman on a former occasion, that a stranger was waiting in the House for his (Mr. Duncombe's) Motion. There was present, on that occasion, one of those miserable creatures of the Post Office, waiting to prime the hon. Gentleman with materials for opposing his Motion. He told that Gentleman, that his presence might be dispensed with; and yet now he was accused of not bringing forward his Motion.
 Mr. Gisborne  said, the question before the House was, whether the broad gauge was to extend much farther north than had been originally intended. He thought Rugby a most inconvenient place for the gauge to shift, in consequence of the extent of traffic concentrated there. The great utility of the line would arise from the transfer of coals from the northern counties; and the greatest inconvenience would be felt if the coals were to be shifted to different waggons at Rugby, instead of being carried on without interruption to Oxford. It was said that the preference
 1003
 Mr. W. R. Collett  seconded the Amendment, and expressed a hope, that on the third reading of the Bill, or at some other fitting opportunity, measures should be taken to have it ascertained whether the public at large would be most benefited by the broad or the narrow gauge.
 Mr. Ewart  said, that he had no intention of abandoning his Motion; but that he had not considered he should have been doing his duty to the importance of the subject by bringing it forward in so thin a state of the House.
 Mr. Ewart  said, he should certainly bring it forward at a future period, though he would not do it to the interruption of the Supply Motions.
 Mr. Ewart,  apprehending that it would be almost impossible that night to keep a House, after so protracted and exhausting a debate as that which closed last night, and not seeing around him those whom he had especially looked to for supporting the Motion of which he had given notice, for the repeal of the duties on butter and cheese, begged to say he should not then proceed with that Motion, but bring it forward at an early opportunity.
 Mr. Lockhart  moved that the consideration of the Report be further considered that day three months.
 Mr. S. Crawford  moved that the House do adjourn.
 Mr. Williams  thought it most unreasonable to attempt to vote away the public money at that hour of the night, particularly as he believed every Gentleman present was in the House at three o'clock that morning.
 Mr. W. Williams  said, he would never again take the promise of any Gentleman connected with the Government. He was taken by surprise — he was regularly tricked. A distinct promise had been given that the Committee of Supply would not be proceeded with to-night. He had a Motion previous to going into Supply on the Paper, which he did not expect he should have had to go on with; but as a Committee of Supply had been proposed, he should, as an Amendment, move—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty that she will be graciously pleased to give directions that there be laid before this House a Copy of the Correspondence between the Secretary of State for the Home Department and Mr.Twyford, the Police Magistrate, in reference to his commitment of Mr. Mayer, an inhabitant of St. Marylebone, to Newgate, for an assault, under circumstances of gross provocation, after his refusal to accept bail for him, although tendered to any amount." 1010 habeas: l., l. 1011
 Sir C. Lemon  said, that his hon. Friend had chosen a very odd time to bring forward his Motion; for never at any former period was copper supplied in such abundance to the manufacturer, and never was the price so low. With respect to the price and quantity of copper his hon. Friend had nothing to complain of. He hoped that the duty would be retained, because it was a source of revenue to the Government, and was not prejudicial to any interest in the country.
 Sir C. Napier  confirmed the statement of the hon. Member for Weymouth (Mr. Bernal), that the Marylebone vestry were of opinion that enough had already been done in the matter; and for that reason he had not thought it necessary to interfere further in it.
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that the timber duties had been very much considered in 1842. He did not think that the hon. Gentleman had made out any case for reducing the duty on this particular description of limber which the hon. Gentleman said was particularly used for sleepers for railways. There were other descriptions of timber, as that used in buildings for the poor, which were entitled to be as much considered as that which the hon. Gentleman had brought under the consideration of the Committee.
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that it had been admitted that the change which had taken place in the law in 1842, was beneficial; that in consequence of it copper ore was much more abundant and much cheaper than before the law passed; and such being the case, he thought it would be unwise to disturb an arrangement which was productive of so much benefit. He hoped the hon. Gentleman would not press his Motion to a division.
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that after the appeal of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Devonport, he could not allow the debate to close without saying a few words. He quite agreed in the necessity of attaching importance to the decisions of the Committees of that House, constituted as they now were. He admitted that the Railway Committees had discharged their
 988 989
 Sir G. Clerk  said, he wished to say a few words in explanation. He begged leave to assure the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down that the inconvenience arising out of the broad gauge had been distinctly pointed out by the Board of Trade to the representatives of the Great Western Company, and that the question of the transhipment had been fully discussed by the Board. Several interviews had taken place between the Board and the agents of the Company upon that latter point. The Board had afterwards thought that they could receive no new information upon that subject, and
 993
 Sir G. Grey  would not discuss the merits of this Bill, because he was perfectly satisfied with the decision of the Committee as to the merits of the two lines; but there were some peculiar circumstances

 987
 Mr. Ward  said, that he should not, probably, have attempted to address the House, if the right hon. Gentleman the Chairman of the Committee had not thrown an undue warmth into his vindication of the Committee. The right hon. Gentleman had said distinctly that no man could quarrel with the Report he had presented, without being influenced either by a private canvass, or by personal interest. ["No, no!"] The right hon. Gentleman had asked, if the decision of the Committee was to be set aside by private canvass, or by personal interest? Now, he utterly denied, so far as he was concerned, that any such feeling would actuate him in voting for the Amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for Stockport. He believed, that no Member of the House could propose that Amendment with cleaner hands than his hon. Friend; and that it would be admitted that he was perfectly exempt from the imputations that had been thrown out against him. His hon. Friend had, as he had himself stated, adopted the course he had taken upon national considerations, and he had nothing to do with the quarrels of the rival companies. Neither had he anything to do with those quarrels. There were much larger considerations involved in that question. He did not dispute the competency of the Committee to decide upon the matter referred to them; but the great question at issue had only come incidentally under the consideration of the Committee; and the Committee could not fairly complain of an appeal being made to the House from its decision. His hon. Friend the Member for Stockport had submitted two questions to the House; first, whether it would be advisable to multiply the gauges; and next, whether the Committee had selected the best points for carrying out their own conclusions? These were questions of sufficient importance to justify the House in determining that they should be referred to a Commission. The right hon. Gentleman the Chairman of the Committee had told them, that no one knew what was the best gauge that could be adopted; and it certainly appeared that the broad gauge and the narrow gauge had each some special advantage. With respect to the transhipment of goods, he could tell the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Worcester (Sir T. Wilde) that he
 994
 Mr. Ward  thought that this was one of the questions which should only be decided by those having practical experience on the subject. He had no confidence in this alleged plan of transhipping the bodies of the trucks from lines of one gauge to those of a different gauge.
 Sir J. Graham  said, after Mr. Speaker had been in the Chair until half-past two o'clock that morning, having sat for ten hours successively during the three preceding nights, he appealed to the House whether it were not too bad for an hon. Member to speak against time for three quarters of an hour, because he stood alone in his desire to obstruct going into Committee of Supply at half-past ten o'clock. He was at all times ready to give information to any hon. Member as to his public conduct; but this transaction had already been before the House on three several occasions—once when the hon. Member for Montrose asked a question respecting
 1012 Williams: habeas corpus, 1013
 Sir R. Peel  said, that in general when the Government brought forward the Esti-
 1009
 Sir R. Peel  said, it was not surprising, after four nights of fatiguing debate, that the state of the House should have been what it was. He had, however, redeemed the pledge he had given the hon. Gentleman, in reference to affording him an opportunity of bringing forward his Motion.
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, I do not hesitate to
 995 996
 Sir R. Peel  said, he would relieve the
 1015
 Sir T. Wilde  wished to say a few words on behalf of his constituents, who felt deeply interested in this question. It was a fearful thing that such a question should not be left upon its merits, and that the opinion arrived at by the Board of Trade, whose investigations were carried on in private, and of whose information they had no means of judging, should find an advocate in that House. When he attended the Board of Trade with a deputation from Worcester, asking to be heard,
 990 991 ex-parte 992
 Lord Ingestre  said, that were it not with reference to this particular Bill, he would support the Motion of the hon. Member for Stockport, for an inquiry with a view to securing one uniform gauge; and he hoped that hon. Gentleman would withdraw his present Amendment, and bring it forward as a substantive Motion.
 Lord Ingestre,  in rising to move the reception of the Report on the Oxford, Worcester, and Wolverhampton Railway Bill, said that he had given the comparative merits of the broad and narrow gauges his best consideration; and he had no hesitation in giving his opinion that the former was the best. The matter was one of national interest, and also of local interest to the county which he represented; and on both accounts he considered the broad gauge was the preferable one of the two. The House also should be cautious how they upset the verdict of a Committee of that House. He would move at once that the Report of the Committee on the Oxford, Worcester, and Wolverhampton Railway Bill be brought up.
 Mr. O. Stanley  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade a question respecting a serious accident which had recently occurred on the Great Western Railway, although fortunately it was not attended with loss of life. A few days after that accident another took place; and, as it appeared, on the same part of the line. He understood that the Board of Trade, being desirous of obtaining an opinion as to the cause of these two accidents, had sent the Inspector-General, General Pasley, to view the line. The question he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman was, whether the Board of Trade had received General Pasley's Report; and if so, whether the right hon. Gentleman had it in his power to give the House any information as to the cause of the accident, and whether that cause still remained? It was of great public importance that a full inquiry should be made into the subject; for an impression pre-
 1032
 Sir James Graham  said, that having ascertained that there existed in the country great contrariety of opinion respecting the proposed change in the Law of Settlement, he did not intend to press that part of the measure in the present Session. Nevertheless he hoped that the Bill might be read a second time, as the larger portion of it related to the power of removal and the mode of trying appeals; he was most anxious that in these respects a remedy should be applied to the defective law in the present Session.
 Lord J. Russell : There is one point, I think, not exactly explained. The right hon. Gentleman was asked with regard to the future appointment of professors, and I understood him just now to state that that is a matter to be reconsidered by Parliament in 1848; but I do not quite understand whether that is to be left open to the consideration of Parliament by a clause, and the power of the Crown to cease when Parliament has supplied that want, or whether any mode is proposed by which the future arrangement, whether by appointment of a board of examiners or otherwise, should be enacted in this Bill.
 Viscount Clive  thought it was rather hard for Members of Parliament to be met by those various objections which were so frequently urged against them in reference to clauses which they might wish to move in Committees on Bills into which they might be desirous of endeavouring to insert principles in accordance with their own sentiments on important questions like the present. The Motion of his noble Friend, if carried, would be simply this—that in each of these Colleges there should be provided a chaplain, not for the purpose of instructing the pupils in controversial theology, but of giving them religious instruction weekly and daily; for, in the houses of their friends, or in these boarding houses in which they might reside, it was very conceivable that they might be living under the care of persons altogether unqualified to give them such instruction as that to meet the want of which his noble Friend had framed his Motion. He considered that his noble Friend was quite right in adopting the course he had taken, because, considering the remarks that had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the other night respecting the exclusion of religious education, and considering the declarations of the Government that this Resolution, if carried, was contrary to the spirit of the Bill, it was, nevertheless, a Resolution which, if not necessary for the purpose of procuring the insertion in the measure of the principle it laid down, was yet necessary as showing the principle on which it was wished that the Bill should proceed. He thought that that principle was sufficiently important to warrant his noble Friend in bringing it forward as he had done as a question of principle and not of detail.
 Lord Claude Hamilton  said, no man could have heard the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. O'Connell) without feeling that he who possessed such great powers of eloquence, and who could command an audience at will, had not on the present occasion been quite equal to himself. It impressed him with the belief that the hon. and learned Gentleman was unwillingly doing the work of others, in whose narrow-viewed and bigoted notions he did not coincide. What was the proposition of the hon. and learned Gentleman? Why, although many fair schemes had been shipwrecked by an endeavour to inculcate creeds which did not coincide with all parties in Ireland, yet when it was now proposed to adopt a scheme that was free from any such impeachable attempt, the hon. and learned Gentleman came forward and objected to the plan, because it did not embody the very thing which had hitherto made all attempts at establishing a general system of education in Ireland abortive. The hon. and learned Gentleman had given a description of the miseries of the people of Ireland,; but he did not, at the same time state that the Roman Catholic clergy were deriving a larger revenue than any other Church in Europe. He could not agree to the Amendment of his noble Friend, because it was his conviction that the only principle on which this measure could be successful was to leave the Colleges entirely free of all religion, trusting to the judgment of the parents and guardians the religious education of the students.
 Lord Ashley  moved
 1104
 Mr. Bickham Escott  supported the measure, as one which was calculated to effect the advancement of education amongst all classes of Her Majesty's subjects in Ireland. One of the objections which had been very prominently put forth by the hon. Baronet the Member for Oxford was, that this was a "godless" scheme of education. He could not assent to that; and was prepared, on the contrary, to defend the Bill on the ground of its being a religious Bill. It was true that its object was to exclude, as far as possible, all religious and sectarian animosities; but that was not calculated to injure the cause of religion; and he believed that the only way in which education could be effectually and successfully encouraged in Ireland, was by excluding sectarian differences in the system of education which it was proposed to give to the youth of that country. The charge against the Government, that it was not a religious system of education,
 1074 1075 1076
 Mr. Hindley  complained of the hon. and learned Member for Cork (Mr. O'Connell) having described the opposition to the Maynooth endowment as a senseless clamour. The hon. and learned Gentleman had himself, on former occasions, spoken strongly against the Maynooth grant, and avowed himself an advocate of the voluntary principle. He had presented 1,200 petitions against the Maynooth endowment, upon the principle which had been advocated by the hon. and learned Member himself—namely, the voluntary principle; and he thought it therefore hard that their conscientious opposition should be called senseless clamour. He wished to ask the hon. and learned Gentleman whether he still adhered to the voluntary principle, and included in his censure the petitioners whose petitions he had presented.
 Mr. E. B. Roche  referred to a question he had formerly put to the right hon. Baronet, whether he intended this Session to introduce two measures relating to municipal reform, and the registration of voters in Ireland? The right hon. Baronet had replied that he should be better able to answer when the Irish business already before the House, was in a more advanced state. It was now within less than a month of the end of the Session, and he (Mr. E. B. Roche) was, therefore, anxious to obtain the information he had requested.
 Mr. Serjeant Murphy  trusted that the House would bear with him for a few minutes while he made an explanation personal to himself; in the sequel he apprehended it would be seen that allusions had been made to him elsewhere, not justified by the real facts of the case, and which, if unexplained, were calculated to do him deep injury. He wished shortly to state the circumstances under which three Bills had been entrusted to him, his conduct regarding which had been made the subject of animadversion. Those Bills were to regulate the common law process in England, Ireland, and Scotland, the object being that there should exist an intercommunication of process between the three parts of the United Kingdom. If any party were domiciled in this country for a single day, however his usual residence might be in Ireland or in Scotland, he was to be amenable to the tribunals of England at the will of any creditor. In another object of the Bills all must cor-
 1034 "My dear Murphy—You are quite right to wash your hands of the obnoxious bills. "I shall be perfectly satisfied if Cripps takes the charge of them. "I remain yours truly, "CAMPBELL. "Mr. Serjeant Murphy, M.P." 1035 "My dear Murphy—Personally I do not care one farthing about the Bills. I cannot possibly understand the opposition to them, as they introduce a palpable improvement, without trenching on the pecuniary interests of any class or individual, but I have not the smallest objection to their being allowed to drop.—Yours truly, "CAMPBELL." 1036
 Mr. Shaw  begged, even at that late hour, to be allowed, in very few words, to explain the vote he was about to give. Feeling that further means of education for the middle classes were required in Ireland, and that upon the whole, and under all the complicated difficulties of the case, the Government had proposed a plan more practicable than any other that had been suggested for the purpose, he had voted for the second reading of the Bill. He was deeply sensible that there could be no real education unless upon the basis of religion,
 1101
 Mr. Colquhoun  said, that though he should come to the same conclusion as his hon. Friend, still it would be for very different reasons from those which had induced his hon. Friend who had just sat down to support the measure; for he was sure he should be charged with satire if he called this a religious Bill. It might be a Bill called for by a necessity; but it certainly was not a religious measure. The right hon. Baronet himself had not introduced it as his hon. Friend had done, in that speech which he (Mr. Colquhoun) did not think should have been delivered on those benches, but on the other side of the House, and which he thought would find scarcely a complete seconder, except in the hon. and learned Member for Bath. The right hon. Gentleman stated, that if they were to give education to the middle classes at all, it must be by steering clear of the question of religion altogether; and
 1077 O'Connell: 1078 R. Peel: "I am now a Roman Catholic, and I was appointed teacher of the national school by the Rev. Mr. Devine, the Roman Catholic priest of Dingle. I was born in Iveragh, and lived
 1079 "Lynch goes to Liverpool, he comes back to Dublin, and cannot tell you the names of
 1080
 Mr. O'Connell : It so happens that, in a lecture on anatomy, he introduced one of the greatest calumnies imaginable against the Roman Catholic religion; thinking the fact true, no doubt, himself.
 Mr. O'Connell : I would not willingly lie under the imputation of stating anything designedly wrong. The gentleman in question is most eminent: he is at the head of his profession in Ireland, undoubtedly; a more respectable man in all the relations of life is not to be found; but in a lecture on anatomy, taking Protestant authorities for matter of fact in the history of anatomy, he accused the head of the Catholic Church of the grossest persecution of an individual, for no other reason than that he had made discoveries in anatomy. It did not rest here; a Catholic clergyman conversant with the history of anatomy, in reply to the published lecture, proved that the individual had been guilty of forgery, for which he was punished. The treatment by the Inquisition was altogether unconnected with science. Sir Philip Crampton, however, had the manliness at once to come forward and admit that he was wrong.
 Mr. John O'Connell : He (Mr. O'Connell) made no objections of his own—he stood on the bishops' resolutions. He had his own opinion on the subject of mixed and separate education, but he need not go into that question on the present occasion. Here, however, they had the declaration of the Catholic bishops on the subject of this measure, and which he believed to be the supreme authority on the subject in Ireland, and from which
 1061 1062 1063
 Mr. John O'Connell , having been personally alluded to, wished to say a few words in answer to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Waterford. He would not then enter into the general consideration of the Bill, because he was in hopes that the right hon. Baronet would give them twenty-four hours to consider the purport of the Amendments which he proposed to adopt in it, and which he had for the first time explained that night, and if this was the case he should be better prepared to go into the subject. The hon. Member for Waterford had replied to an attack which had been made upon him elsewhere, and had complained that that attack had been made in his absence. He (Mr. J. O'Connell) as the person who had made it, would only say he had done so in the place where his constituents desired him to attend, and where the constituents of the hon. Member wished him also to be; and if the latter was absent from that place it was his own fault. He repeated that the hon. Member had been often called on to attend Conciliation Hall, to which place he (Mr. J. O'Connell) had hitherto confined his attendance, believing that his duty to his constituents bound him so to do. He, therefore, had no other place to express his opinions, and under all these circumstances he did not think he was open to the charge of having taken any unfair advantage. The expressions attributed to him by the hon. Member were not altogether correct: he had not charged him with not being a Catholic, but with being in a state very nearly approaching to that of not being a Catholic. The impression on his mind was, that those were
 1060 "Every Catholic likewise was bound to respect the decisions of his bishops on such points as these, and if he found reason to quarrel with his bishops, his appeal was not to the British Parliament, but to Rome."
 Mr. O'Connell  certainly included in his censure many of the petitions presented by the hon. Member. He would undertake to-morrow to produce fifty petitions presented by him, containing the most outrageous calumnies against the Catholics of Ireland.
 Mr. O'Connell  said: Sir, if this debate had not taken a desultory course, and had not avoided the great measure in dispute, I should have taken the liberty to have obtruded myself much earlier upon the attention of the House, and to have expressed my opinions then in as few sentences as I now mean to address to it. I cannot, however, go on without referring to the subject of Sir Philip Crampton, lest it should be supposed that I meant to say anything derogatory to that gentleman, or to insinuate anything that was unworthy of his reputation. I named an instance which I thought was the strongest that I could have adduced, because the mistake into which that gentleman fell was a mistake deduced from Protestant writers. He himself was utterly unconscious that what he was stating was not the literal fact. The Rev. Dr. Miley con-
 1090 1091 1092 1093 1094 1095 Colquhoun: 1096 1097 1098
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he would tomorrow prove that he was right, and that the hon. Baronet was wrong. If there were any mistake on his part, it was only that the act which he attributed to a Pope, was done by that same Pope when a Cardinal.
 Mr. M. Milnes  defended the principle of the measure as proposed by the Government. He owned that the opposition which this liberal measure had received in Ireland had given him fresh pain; and he would beg the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Cork (Mr. O'Connell) to remember for how long a period of our his-
 1073
 Mr. Wyse : I did not apply those terms to the bishops; I applied them to your objections. ["Hear."]
 Mr. Wyse  said, that the hon. Member had charged him with misinterpretation of his words. Now, he found in the report in the  Nation, "Every Catholic was bound to respect the decison of his bishops on such points as these, and if he found reason to quarrel with his bishops, his appeal was not to the British Parliament, but to Rome. That appeal was open to Mr. Wyse, but no appeal to the British House of Legislature. It was monstrous to see a Catholic rising up to resist the unanimous resolve of his own bishops in full synod assembled. The bishops might, perhaps, have some minor differences of opinion in matters of minor importance—in matters of detail—but they were unanimous in their resolve upon this point; and yet in the English House of Commons an Irish Catholic Member stood deliberately forward and lent the influence of his name and talent to procure resistance to the just requirement of the prelates of his own Church. Mr. Wyse did not appeal to Rome, as he might have done. No; he pursued such a course as could not be otherwise designated than as a recording of his vote against his religion, and if he persisted in this course he (Mr. J. O'Connell) called on the Catholics of Waterford to require him at once to resign his seat."
 Mr. Wyse  Seconded the Amendment. He thought that religious education should be essentially combined with academical instruction, and, at the same time, that it should be communicated without violating in any manner the religious opinions of any other human being. He had already stated in that House his opinion that in order to give an effectual religious education there should be no interference with the belief or prejudices of any individual. Holding always in view the necessity of religious instruction as the basis and foundation of all education, they were called upon to adapt that principle to the necessities of Ireland. There were various trials in that country of different systems, all of them more or less partaking of a proselytising tendency. From the period when all education, except such as was conveyed on the principle of Protestant ascendency, was declared illegal—from the time when the Charter School system was held out as the only one deserving of countenance, and the establishment of the Association for the Discouragement of Vice, down to the destruction of the Kildare Place Society, there was but one object in view, namely, the proselyising of Ireland to the doctrines of the Established Church. But when, at length, the principle was established of allowing the Catholics to be placed on an equality in regard to their religion and education with the remainder of their fellow subjects, it was found necessary to take into consideration the propriety of adopting a system of education in accordance with the altered state of the law. After much trouble and discussion, both in the House of Lords, and by various votes in that House, the Legislature gave its sanction to a system of education which combined instruction in the same rooms, and under the same rules, of Catholic and Protestant children. That system recognised not only the necessity of religious education, according to the respective creeds of the individuals receiving it, but required such instruction to be the basis of all the education imparted, and that too, conveyed through the medium of selected scriptural lessons. [Sir  J. Graham: 1053 1054 1055 lapsus linguæ 1056 ex officio, 1057 "In the course of a speech in the House of Commons, Mr. Wyse had quoted M. Cousin on the subject of mixed education. Now, who was that M. Cousin—the man who had been set up as one of the brilliant luminaries—one of the gods of the gigantic education scheme in France? He held in his hand a description of M. Cousin, which had not been contradicted, and which was irrefutable. He approached the reading of it with feelings of horror and disgust, so atrocious was the conduct attributed to M. Cousin. But he would let the Association judge for themselves, and form their own estimate as to the value to be placed on the opinions referred to by Mr. Wyse." "There is no class in the Prussian Gymnasia which has not a course of religious instruction, as it has of classical or mathematical instruction. I have before said, and now repeat, that worship with its ceremonies can never be sufficient for young men who reflect, and who are imbued with the spirit of the times. A true religious instruction is indispensable, and no subject is better adapted to
 1058 1059 "If it were not that there are many who are  homines multæ religionis, nullius pæne pietatis,
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  said, he would always be ready to aid his countrymen in obtaining a redress of their grievances; but he must protest against the doctrine he had heard that night. If hon. Members were to be called to account by any ecclesiastical body, there was an end of their independence. Was not every hon. Member there for his Protestant and Catholic constituents alike? He claimed the right of independent action, free from the domination of any ecclesiastical authority, Catholic or Protestant. The hon. and learned Member had spoken of the "senseless cry against the Maynooth Bill." He belonged to a section of that House who had opposed the Maynooth measure from motives as honourable as those of any Gentleman in the House, feeling bound by the voluntary principle to do so; and the Catholics of Ireland ought
 1100
 Sir A. B. Brooke  protested against what had been said of the state of Fermanagh. There had not been a murder committed there for many years.
 Sir George Clerk  said, that information having been received by the Board of Trade, that a serious accident had occurred on Tuesday on the Great Western Railway between Drayton and Slough, the Inspector General of Railways was immediately directed to visit the spot, in order to ascertain and report, as fully as he could, the cause of the accident, so that on receiving the Report, the Board might consider what measures should be taken to prevent the recurrence of similar accidents. General Pasley had made his Report, and it appeared by that Gentleman's statement, that the accident was owing to the elasticity of the rails in that particular part of the line. They were the rails which were originally laid down by the Company, and which were much lighter, and the sleepers of less size than those which were afterwards found necessary to be used. The Company had, in consequence, been laying down new rails of much greater weight, and new sleepers of greater size and strength, which it was believed would prevent that elasticity of the rails which was the immediate cause of the accident. It would be recollected that some few years ago, in consequence of some serious accidents having occurred by the first carriages in the train being too near to the engine, it was suggested that a luggage-van should be placed between the first carriage and the engine. That course had been adopted on the Great Western, as well as on the other railways. But in the express train, which had been running within the last three or four months, it was a matter of importance that it should carry as little weight as possible; accordingly, the luggage-van following immediately after the engine was a very light carriage, with only four wheels. The consequence was, that the engine being of greater weight than the luggage-van, caused the elastic rails to be somewhat depressed, and then the van coming immediately after, being lighter than the engine, was raised by the rebound of the rails, and was thus thrown off the rails; and this happening, the other carriages were also dragged off the rails. The Inspector-General, General Pasley, had called the attention of the Company to the subject, and the Company had, in consequence, determined to
 1033
 Sir J. Graham : Obviously it will suggest itself, in the first instance, without consideration, that it would be desirable to leave in suspense the power of appointment until 1848, with a view of securing some reconsideration by Parliament; but the noble Lord will find that that course is impossible. This Bill contemplates a charter of incorporation for the foundation of each College, and a corporation must be
 1044 "Provided always, and be it enacted, that no College shall be entitled to the benefit of this Act, unless it be declared and provided by the letters patent constituting the same, that the visitor or visitors of the said College shall be such person or persons as it shall please Her Majesty, Her heirs and successors, to appoint from time to time by warrant under the Sign Manual; and that all the statutes, rules, and ordinances concerning the government of such College shall be made or approved by Her Majesty, Her heirs, and successors; and that the President, Vice President, and Professors in the said College shall hold their several offices during the pleasure of Her Majesty, her heirs and successors; and that the sole power of appointing the President and Vice President shall be vested in Her Majesty, Her heirs and successors; and that the power of appointing the Professors shall be vested in Her Majesty, Her heirs and successors, until the end of the year 1848, and afterwards as it shall be otherwise provided by Parliament; or, in default of any provision to the contrary, in Her Majesty, Her heirs and successors."
 Sir James Graham  regretted that Irish business had not advanced as rapidly as could have been wished. On this very evening the House was going into a Committee on the Irish Colleges Bill, to which Ministers attached the utmost importance; and before the other House of Parliament was another measure of great value relating to landlords and tenants. Considering, therefore, the period of the Session, and the present state of Irish business, he feared it would be impossible to introduce the Bills to which the hon. Member referred.
 Sir J. Graham  moved the Order of the Day for the Committee on the Colleges (Ireland) Bill. The right hon. Baronet proceeded to say: Sir, in mating the Motion that you now leave the Chair, that we may go into Committee on the Bill, I shall avail myself, by the permission of the House, of this opportunity of answering several questions which have been put to me on former occasions by hon. Gentlemen in different parts of the House; and, in so doing, I will avoid everything in the shape of argument, which will be more generally applicable when the Amendment of my noble Friend the Member for Hertford (Lord Mahon) shall be before the House. And, first, I will answer the question of the right hon. Member for Northampton (Mr. V. Smith), with reference to the class of persons for whose benefit this measure is intended. The House will remember that in moving the second reading of this Bill, I stated that I and my Colleagues were of opinion, considering the great spread of education among the humbler classes in Ireland, considering that there are 400,000 children receiving education under the national system, and 100,000 children receiv-
 1038 l. l. 1039 l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., curriculum, l. l. l., l. l.; 1040 1041 1042 1043
 Sir J. Graham  felt confident that he expressed the opinion of the great majority of the House, when he declared his own strong impression that this was neither the time nor the place to enter into a discussion as to what constituted a schismatic Roman Catholic, or what was the degree of allegiance which a Roman Catholic gentleman owed to his ecclesiastical superior. He was confident, also, that it must have been very painful to the House to have heard some of the observations which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He hoped and believed that the hon. Member for Kilkenny had not rightly interpreted the degree of submission which was due from every Member of the House to supreme ecclesiastical authority, when he said that the hon. Member for Waterford, in his place, discussing a measure such as the one now under consideration was bound by implicit obedience to the declared opinion of the bishops of the Church, and was not at all
 1064 1065 1066 Mahon: 1067 Wyse: 1068 1069 "We should wish to know your opinion on this point, whether there is any objection on your part to young men who are ultimately to be sent to Maynooth," that was to say, for the Roman Catholic youth who were intended for the priesthood, "receiving their education in the Belfast institution?" "There is no objection on my part." "Is there any danger likely to result from the Roman Catholic young men mixing with the other students?" "There is no danger as long as they are under the direction of their master. On their way to school and in their play they may insult the Catholic pupils; but there was never the slightest apprehension on my part of any danger from their studying together." 1070 1071
 Sir J. Graham  wished to ask his noble Friend this question:—Suppose: that a Roman Catholic youth were sent to a College at Cork, for instance, and his guardians
 1072
 Sir J. Graham  observed, that he had already expressed his decided opinion that the period had arrived when the management of lunatic asylums ought to be compulsory. In ten years parishes would find themselves great gainers by the change. The interest on the money advanced, he apprehended, would be the same as on Exchequer Bills.
 Sir Robert Inglis  had not intended, when he entered the House, to take any part in the debate of the evening, nor would he even now discuss the general subject; but he was unwilling to omit the opportunity of noticing one part of the speech of the hon. and learned Member for the county of Cork (Mr. O'Connell). That one part contained more errors than he believed had ever before been compressed into so small a compass. The hon. and learned Gentleman had, in a kind of episode and parenthesis, referred to the case of Galileo; and had alleged, that it had been most erroneously quoted as a proof of the persecution exercised by the Church of Rome towards that individual, and towards science in general. The proofs which he gave, in order to satisfy the House that the Pope and his Church had been calumniated, were two: first, that Pope, said the hon. and learned Gentleman, (he, Sir R. Inglis, took down his words at the time,) "had enabled Copernicus to publish his observations;" and could not, therefore, have been an enemy to science in general: and, secondly, Galileo, so far from having been a long time in the Inquisition, was there for three days only. Now, in the first place, the Pope, who was reigning even when Galileo was first questioned by the Inquisition, was Paul V. (Borghese), who begun to reign in 1605, and died in 1621: Copernicus died in 1543. It is scarcely necessary to say, that it would have been impossible for a Pope—beginning to reign in 1605—to have assisted any man to publish any observations, who himself had died in 1543. Then, in the next place, the hon. and learned Member stated that Galileo was "only three days in the Inquisition." Anyone who knows what the Inquisition was, would say, that three days, or even one day, was a period much too long for any one to be there confined; but, in point of fact, at the period when Galileo was actually in the hands of the
 1099 Principia Ceterum latis à summis pontificibus decretis contrà telluris motum nos obsequi profitemur: profitemur.
 Sir R. Peel : I could hardly, Sir, have expected to have heard the name of Mrs. Peebles introduced on the present occasion; and even if it were a fitting occasion for introducing it, I do not think the hon. Gentleman has used it very successfully in his attack upon the system of national education in Ireland. Sir, if the proof that one individual master was unfit for the situation to which he had been appointed was to be conclusive evidence against the whole system, I am afraid there is no institution, civil or ecclesiastical, that could stand against that mode of testing its character. I shall not now enter into the consideration of the policy of upholding the national system of education in Ireland. What we have to discuss to-night is not the general principle of this Bill, but the policy of adopting a particular proposal made by my noble Friend the Member for Hertford, and to which I think we ought to confine our
 1081 "That it is the opinion of this House, that in the establishment of Colleges in Ireland, provision should be made for the religious instruction of the Pupils, by means of Lecture Fees, till such time as private benefactions for that object may have taken effect." 1082 1083 1084 1085
 Sir R. Peel : I have known Sir Philip Crampton in other times; he is a man of the most comprehensive liberality, and I never knew him to utter one word that could give offence to a Roman Catholic. It was certainly possible that a Protestant professor, speaking of Galileo, or in lecturing on the circulation of the blood, may have referred to the difficulties thrown in the way of science by men of great weight and ecclesiastical station and influence, but without the slightest reflection on the faith of a Roman Catholic. But if such be the state of society in Ireland, that on account of religious controversy and political difference—such is the alienation that exists—that an eminent man cannot rest from taking advantage of a great public office for the purpose of giving offence to his Roman Catholic fellow citizens, does it not suggest to us the caution with which we should endeavour to lay the foundation of a better order of things, and invite the youth of every religious persuasion to abate
 1087 "Disguise it as you may, your scheme of academical instruction, coupled with your repudiation of the Resolutions and Memorial of the bishops, is only a fresh attempt, similar to that of the charter schools, to bribe Catholic youth into an abandonment of their religion." "And you do this to second the schemes of mercenary infidels, who are springing up in the country, and who, under the affectation of zeal for education, would not hesitate to advocate Mahometanism, if it gave them access to the patronage of the Lords of the Treasury," "Sir James Graham appears to have intimated that all religions would be represented in the professorships. Now, I should be acting most unfaithfully to the Government did I not clearly express my conviction that one Roman Catholic or Unitarian professor in the undergraduate course—I mean the imperative part—would at once decide the General Assembly to withdraw every student. Of this result I entertain not a single doubt. You might, indeed, appoint an Episcopalian of the Church of England, not known as a Puseyite, as readily as a Presbyterian or a Baptist, Independent or Methodist, without much dissatisfaction, but not an Unitarian or Roman Catholic professor." 1088 1089
 Sir R. Peel : Well, in such an instance the power of the Crown would be used, under this Bill, to remove a professor so acting immediately. I regret to hear what has been stated of so eminent a man. The hon. and learned Gentleman must excuse me if I rather hope he has made a mistake, than think it possible that in reading lectures to students on anatomy, Sir Philip Crampton should have insinuated anything disrespectful to the Roman Catholic body.
 Lord Mahon  said, that he presumed that, in such a case, whether in these Colleges or at any other, a pupil ought, in the first instance, to attend the religious service prescribed by his parents or guardians; but afterwards, if he felt any conscientious scruples, to act according to these.
 Lord Mahon , in explanation, said it was much to the advantage, he thought, of private Members of that House, that they should not be put to the labour, difficulty, and expense of having clauses drawn up for the purpose of their being moved in Committees on Bills, when there was but little chance of their being carried. There was, therefore, very great advantage to such Members, by the system of moving instructions; but he had adopted the course he had taken, from the impression that, of late, instructions to Committees had, by a mere technical anticipation, been put an end to. ["No, no."] If the instruction was anything that could by possibility be moved in the Committee, then it was said to be contrary to rule, and inadmissible; if, on the contrary it could not be so moved, then almost,  ex vi termini,
 Lord Mahon  rose to bring forward as an Amendment the Resolution of which he had given notice:—
 "That it is the opinion of this House, that in the establishment of Colleges in Ireland, provision should be made for the religious instruction of the Pupils, by means of Lecture Fees, till such time as private benefactions for that object may have taken effect." 1045 1046 1047 "The question was, were they to have a system of national education or not? A system of education, as applied to Ireland, to be national, must not exclude the Catholics, who formed the great majority of the population. The intention, then,  ex vi termini, "I claim credit for the whole of the King's Ministers, for myself, and emphatically for my right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland, (now Lord Stanley) who introduced this plan, as bearing as true an affection for the Church, as feeling as deeply for the interests of our holy religion, as any man who hears me;"— 1048 "He was not contending for the absolute control of the Church over education; but that education, whether of the members of that Church or of Dissenters, was not a thing apart from religion. But it was a thing necessarily combined with religion, and necessarily dependent on religion—a thing of which religious doctrine and religious faith must be made the ground and motive. He was contending that education was not a thing apart and separate from religion; but that religion should be interwoven with all systems of education, controlling and regulating the whole minds, habits, and principles of the persons receiving instruction." 1049 1050 1051 l. l. s. l. l. 1052
 An hon. Member  having moved that the House be counted, and only twenty-nine Members being present,
 Mr. Labouchere  wished to take that opportunity of directing the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Board of Trade to a matter connected with the recent alteration in the Tariff, which, though it did not affect any large class of traders, was still calculated to injure some individuals of high character in the commercial world. It besides involved such manifest injustice, that he trusted some satisfactory answer would at once be given respecting it. The question arose from the alteration made in the rate of duty chargeable on the article called morphine, which was a preparation of opium, and had latterly nearly supplanted that drug in medical practice. The House having left the duty on opium, which was the raw material, untouched, while it considerably reduced that on morphine, the consequence was that the foreigner who got his opium duty free would be enabled entirely to supplant the morphine manufacturers in the market of this country. One respectable chemist in Edinburgh, who had erected a laboratory for the production of morphine, which astonished all who had an opportunity of inspecting it, from the beauty of its construction, had carried on a thriving and profitable trade in this article; but he was now apprehensive that the foreign chemists would be enabled to undersell him in the market, so as entirely to destroy his prospects. The entire revenue derived from the duty on opium did not
 1156 l. l.;
 Dr. Bowring  said, he had upon the Paper three questions to which he wished to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir J. Graham). They referred to an illegal arrest and imprisonment which had taken place in the Isle of Man. He understood that the attention of the Lord Chancellor had been called to the matter since he had before mentioned it in the House; and he hoped, therefore, that the right hon. Baronet was prepared to give some explanation of the occurrence. In order that the right hon. Gentleman might be enabled to do so explicitly, he had set forward the questions which he wished to ask in detail on the Paper. They were as follows:—
 "Whether John Walters Coldicot was committed, on or about the 9th day of September last, to Castle Rushen, in the Isle of Man, on a charge of assault, without any examination or hearing before a magistrate? Whether, on complaining of the irregularity and hardship of his commitment to the Lieutenant Governor of the island, the case was referred by the said Lieutenant Governor to the committing magistrate himself? Whether the original committal was not to compel the prisoner to keep the peace for six months, and whether, the six months being passed, he was not and is not now detained in gaol?"
 Dr. Bowring  wished to ask, in addition, whether the right hon. Baronet would not consent that the state of the law, which permitted the irregularity of a person being committed to prison without inquiry, should be altered?
 Mr. Gisborne  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government, whether parties applying to Parliament for Railway Bills would be still obliged to deposit plans or sections with the Railway Department of the Board of Trade; or whether any alterations in the present system were intended to be made?
 Sir C. Napier  could not agree with the hon. Member for Gateshead, or with the noble Lord, in the propriety of abandoning the blockade on the coast of Africa. If we now, with the favourable prospects before us of putting down the Slave Trade, abandoned the blockade, we should see the coast of Africa converted into a regular place for the rendezvous of vessels, and in all probability they would find regular convoys. That the middle passage had been rendered worse by the blockade there was no doubt, and frequently slaves were thrown overboard when the vessels were chased. Still those were evils which it was impossible altogether to prevent. The gallant Admiral had told them that the profits of the Slave Trade were not so great as they had been, for out of forty-five vessels captured only twelve had slaves on board, which proved that only a portion of the number fitted out of the coast of Africa could succeed. He thought, therefore, we ought to persevere, and to put out our energies, which if they had been properly used, the Slave Trade would have been put an end to long ago. We had now taken up the matter seriously; we had steam-vessels on the coast, and forty-five sailing vessels; and if the right hon. Baronet gave equal assistance with what he was likely to receive from America, he would put down this trade. The gallant Admiral had told them what must be very gratifying, that the loss of British life was not more than 4 per cent.; in fact, he thought he said it was only 2 per cent. It would have been well if they had been told also the percentage of men who were invalided and sent home; but if we only lost 4 or 5 per cent. of the men employed, the experience gained by the officers and men on the coast would well repay that small loss of life. He was also glad to hear from the right hon. Baronet that Portugal had, at last, taken vigorous steps to support our Government. He would have entered into the question of the new Treaty with France, but it seemed to be generally understood that all observations on that point were to be left till the subject of that Treaty was regularly before
 1182
 Sir George Clerk  said, the point alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman had been already brought under the notice of the Board of Trade by the individual in Edinburgh whom the right hon. Gentleman had referred to, and who was apprehensive that the alteration in the Tariff would be injurious to his business. Prior to the year 1842, there was a duty of 16 s. s. s.,
 Sir G. Cockburn  said, the only difference between the sentiments of the hon. Gentleman and those entertained by Her Majesty's Government was as to the manner in which they were to arrive at the object both had in view—viz., the suppression of the Slave Trade. Undoubtedly he could not agree with the hon. Gentleman that the best way to do so was to withdraw the whole of our force from the African coast, to leave the trade unchecked, except by the force of public opinion alone. It was only last year that a new system had been adopted. England had doubled her force upon that coast; and officers had been appointed to commands there who were most intimate with it; and the ships, instead of cruising about as they did in former times, had now fixed stations, in a manner blockading those parts of the coast in which the Slave Trade had flourished
 1173 "The measures taken for the watching of the Gallinas had proved completely successful." "I have the honour to submit to their Lordships' consideration the enclosed list of captures of slave vessels, amended from the latest returns, from which it appears that the total amount of seizures during the last twelve months has been forty-five, of which one only has been released by the tribunals to which their cases were subjected. I humbly venture to hope that their Lordships will be pleased to accept this result as a satisfactory proof of the zeal and diligence of the officers on this station in the execution of their duly. It is very gratifying to me to be assured that the Slave Trade has been severely checked, and in some of its principal haunts effectually suppressed; and I entertain a sanguine expectation that the continued vigilance of the squadron will give it still further and more decisive blows, although it may, as yet, be too much to calculate on its final and total extinction; and yet even that result is not beyond my hopes, when I see the faithful exertions made by the Portuguese Government in the cause of the Slave Trade suppression on the southern part of this station." 1174
 Sir James Graham : I am not aware that any breach of the law, or any irregularity, has been committed on this occasion.
 Sir James Graham  said, in consequence of the former statement of the hon. Member, he had communicated with the Governor of the Isle of Man on the subject. It was necessary that he should preface his answer by remarking that the law of the Isle of Man was local and peculiar, and very dissimilar from the law of this country. It appeared that the person alluded to had been charged before a magistrate, about the early part of September last, with a grievous assault on his wife. According to the law of the island, a warrant was issued for his apprehension, against which it was open to him to appeal. No
 1154 l. l. l.
 Sir Robert Peel  was not at present prepared to make any announcement on the subject to which the hon. Member referred. It was one to which Her Majesty's Government had directed their attention, and which required much consideration. They were, of course, desirous to acquire as much experience as possible in the working of the present railway system before any decision was come to, and it was also necessary that the matter should be brought before Parliament at a period of the Session which would ensure full and calm deliberation to a subject of so much importance. Taking these two considerations, therefore, together—namely, the necessity of having as much experience as possible on the working of the present system, and also of having ample time for coming to a calm and fair consideration of the matter in Parliament, he thought the present period of the Session too late for bringing the subject before the House.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he had promised to answer the question which the noble Lord had put to him a few days since, with respect to the Bill about being introduced for facilitating the challenge to the array. He had since then communicated with the Lord Chancellor on the subject, and he was now able to state that that noble Lord would bring the Bill forward in a few days.
 Sir R. Peel : I am sure the noble Lord will not consider that I mean towards him the least disrespect, if I decline to follow him in his observations upon the subject of the Convention recently ratified between this country and France. Indeed, the hon. Gentleman who brought forward this Motion, deprecated the introduction of that question; and I have the less reluctance in declining to enter upon it now, as the noble Lord (Lord Palmerston) has given notice of a Motion which will lead to the discussion of it in a distinct and separate form. With regard, then, to the Motion at present before the House, I think the hon. Gentleman who brought it forward, has proceeded upon totally erroneous grounds. I admit that the measures adopted by Her Majesty's Government have not been successful in abolishing this traffic. I also admit that the horrors of the Slave Trade continue — abated in some degree, but still to an extent which every friend to humanity must deplore. But when the proposal was made to abolish the Slave Trade, it was foreseen, whatever measure you might adopt to effect it, that would lead in some degree to an aggravation of the evil. Those who were averse to the abolition of the Slave Trade said, that if it were abolished slave smuggling would follow to a greater extent than then existed. Still, general considerations of humanity prevailed over objections of that nature; this country determined to set an example to the rest of the world, and abolished the Slave Trade; not, however, without feeling that,
 1177 1178 Cleopatra, "I think we are doing very well against the Slave Trade on this side of Africa, and a twelvemonth after this it will be a rare thing to hear of a slave vessel on the coast, if the present number of vessels are employed to prevent it. There were ten agents employed at Quilimane to collect slaves for the Rio vessels, nine of which have left, and the other remains only to collect the property and wind up the affairs of the company. There are now about 2,000 slaves ready to be embarked, and vessels are expected every day for them. It is no easy thing for them to get off safely, as the Governor of Quilimane, who has just arrived, will not allow the trade to be carried on from that river, and the Governor General is very earnest in putting an end to it by all the means in his power. He has given me authority to capture any vessels employed in the Slave Trade from any river, harbour, or roadstead belonging to Portugal, and has sent a very strong letter to the Governor of Inhambam for allowing the  Kentucky 1179 Alert, Caçador,
 Mr. Hutt : Among the various proposals which have been submitted to Parliament for revising measures which erroneous principles of legislation and mistaken humanity have imposed upon the country, I am surprised that none has been made for reconsidering the nature and results of that system by which we have undertaken to put down the Slave Trade. There has long existed in this country a very earnest and generous desire to extinguish the Slave Trade. Every successive Administration which, during the last forty years, has assumed the direction of public affairs, has exerted itself vigorously and perseveringly for the furtherance of this popular object. During that period—the last forty years—we have had Governments not distinguished by devotion to the real welfare or the constitutional liberties of their own countrymen; but I know of none which did not appear sensible to the wrongs and sufferings of the people of Africa. And the zeal of Government in this respect has always
 1157 1158 1159 "Towards the end of the last century the cruelty and the carnage which raged in Africa were laid open. From the most generous motives, and at a mighty cost, we have attempted to arrest this evil; it is, however, but too evident, that under the mode we have taken for the suppression of the Slave Trade it has increased. It has been proved, by documents which cannot be controverted, that, for every village fired, and every drove of human beings marched in former times, there are now double. For every cargo then at sea, two cargoes, or twice the numbers in one cargo, wedged together in a mass of living corruption, are now borne on the wave of the Atlantic. But, whilst the numbers who suffer have increased, there is no reason to believe that the sufferings of each have been abated; on the contrary, we know that in some particulars these have increased; so that the sum total of misery swells in both ways. Each individual has more to endure; and the number of individuals is twice what it was. The result, therefore, is, that aggravated suffering reaches multiplied numbers." 1160 "It is, then, but too manifest, that the efforts already made for the suppression of the Slave Trade have not accomplished their benevolent object. Millions of money, and multitudes of lives, have been sacrificed; and in return for all, we have only the afflicting conviction that the Slave Trade is as far as ever from being suppressed. Once more, then, I must declare my conviction that the Slave Trade will never be suppressed by the system hitherto pursued." "Under such circumstances, to repress the foreign Slave Trade by a marine guard would scarcely be possible, if the whole British Navy could be employed for that purpose. It is an evil which can never be adequately encountered by any system of mere prohibition and penalties." 1161 1162 "But after the most attentive examination which it has been in my power to make, of official documents, and especially of the Correspondence communicated to Parliament from the Department of Her Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, I find it impossible to avoid the conclusion, that the average number of slaves introduced into Foreign States or Colonies in America and the West Indies, from the Western Coast of Africa, annually exceeds 100,000. In this estimate a very large deduction is made for the exaggerations which are, more or less, inseparable from all statements on a subject so well calculated to excite the feelings of every impartial and disinterested witness. But, making this deduction, the number of slaves actually landed in the importing countries affords but a very imperfect indication of the real extent of the calamities which this traffic inflicts on its victims. No record exists of the multitudes who perish in the overland journey to the African Coast, or in the passage across the Atlantic, or of the still greater number who fall a sacrifice to the warfare, pillage, and cruelties by which the Slave Trade is fed. Unhappily, however, no fact can be more certain, than that such an importation as I have mentioned, presupposes and involves a waste of human life, and a sum of human misery, proceeding from year to year, without respite or intermission, to such an extent as to render the subject the most painful of any which, in the survey of the condition of mankind, it is possible to contemplate." 1163 1164 "From the foregoing statement your Lordship will perceive that, unhappily for the case of humanity, the Slave Trade has greatly increased during the year 1843." "The list of vessels proceeding to the coast of Africa is far exceeding that of the last year. We regret having it further to state, as a matter of public understanding, that the trade is to be allowed to continue as much connived at as ever previously. From our former despatches, and the one we have hereafter to submit on the state of the trade during the last month, your Lordship will see the alarming extent to which these proceedings are now projected." "During the last month, I regret to have to report that the Slave Trade has exhibited proofs of unabated activity." "The total number of slaves, as shown by the present return, is not one half of the actual number successfully imported. We are assured that nearly 40,000 have been landed within these provinces in the period. This sudden augmentation during the past year is attributable to the continued encouragement and protection afforded by the Brazilian Administration to all slaving adventures. The greater number of slave ships which have effected the landing of their cargoes, have escaped our vigilant observation in consequence of the novel system recently followed by the slave dealers, which has proved eminently prosperous." "The clandestine importation of slaves is carried on as extensively as ever." 1165 "The consternation among the planters is exceedingly great; and within the last month there was a memorial presented to the Governor of Matanzas, signed by upwards of sixty of the most respectable planters and inhabitants of that city and the neighbourhood, of a most remarkable character. The memorialists complained in express terms 'of the bad faith towards England, in the continuing to permit the introduction of negroes, to the great injury of the island, and against the earnest wishes of the great majority of the people.' We are sorry we have not been able to procure a copy; but we have these expressions from a gentleman who read it, and on whose statement we can rely. This petition was directed to the Captain General, and was delivered to the Governor of Matanzas to be forwarded, who tore it in the presence of the parties deputed, telling them that it was the most friendly act he could do for them, as such a petition was an insult to the Government, and they would be looked upon as conspirators. The memorialists on this determined to present one to the Captain General direct, on hearing of which the Governor of Matanzas, Don Antonio Garcia Ona, called some of the principals, and told them
 1166 1167 1168 1169 1170 l. l.; l. l. l. l. 1171 "The storm yet sleeps, the clouds yet keep their station— The bloody earthquake yet is in the womb— The unborn chaos yet expects creation, But all things are disposing for their doom. The elements are waiting but the word— Let there be darkness—and they grow a tomb." 1172 "That the course pursued by Great Britain, since 1814, for the suppression of the Slave Trade, has been attended by large expenditure of the public money, and by serious loss of life to the Naval Forces of the Country, and that it has not mitigated the horrors of the middle passage, nor diminished the extent of the traffic in Slaves."
 Viscount Howick  entirely concurred with the hon. Member for Gateshead in the views he had expressed; but in the present state of the House would not advise him to press his Motion. As to the promises held out by the right hon. Baronet, and his expectations from the new system, he must confess he had the smallest possible faith in them. For the last thirty years, Parliament had, at intervals, been assured, by one Government after another, that some new scheme had just been devised which would effectually put an end to the Slave Trade; former plans, it was always admitted in such cases, had
 1175 1176
 Viscount Palmerston  rose to address the House; but
 Mr. J. S. Wortley  expressed his satisfaction at the introduction of such a Motion, as well as the manner in which it had been received by the Government, for the time had arrived when it became necessary to take some steps in this matter; but as it was only a subject for inquiry into all bearings of the question, he did not conceive the hon. Member for Stockport (as he was understood) ought to omit the part of his Motion which was suggested.
 Mr. Williams  said, as the hon. Member (Mr. Liddell) had already made a very liberal concession in withdrawing the penalty of transportation from the clause, he did not think there could be much difficulty in allowing it to pass.
 Mr. Liddell  said, he had advisedly constituted the offence of dog stealing a misdemeanour in the clauses. He did not agree with the hon. Member for Winchester (Mr. Escott), in thinking that the distinction in the law, which refused to admit dogs or other animals kept solely for the pleasure and gratification of the owners to be regarded as property, was a wise one, especially as dogs were, from their utility and sagacity, to be in many cases considered in a very different light.
 Mr. Liddell  was quite prepared to take the advice which had been so kindly offered to him by his hon. Friend opposite, and by his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary, with respect to the propriety of withdrawing the penalty of transportation for seven years. He was very glad that the right hon. Baronet had alluded to the anomalous state of the criminal law in reference to dog stealing, as that was one of the reasons which had induced him to bring in the Bill. There was also another motive which influenced him in doing so. It should be recollected that the penalty of transportation would be the maximum penalty, and that it would not reach casual offenders, but the members of the gang of regular dog stealers who existed in this metropolis in order to commit these thefts, and then extort exorbitant sums from the owners for their restoration. It was when the character of these persons was known to the judge and jury through the police, that the penalty of transportation for seven years would apply for a repetition of the offence. He did not, however, conceive that penalty essentially necessary for the success of the Bill, as there were other portions of it which he thought would amply effect the object which he had in view; and he had, therefore, the less objection in giving it up. One of the reasons why search warrants were not alone sufficient was, that stated by his hon. Friend the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley), that dogs were frequently destroyed when it was known that search warrants for their recovery were issued; and another reason was the extreme difficulty of knowing in which of the many receptacles for stolen dogs that existed in the metropolis the animal was probably detained, so as to be able to state the matter on oath in the information. He did not profess to provide a remedy in that Bill for all cases that might occur; but he believed his Bill would give facilities for the detection of offenders which did not now exist. Without trespassing farther on the time of the House, he hoped the Bill would be then allowed to proceed in Committee.
 Lord G. Somerset  was understood to concur generally in the view taken of the subject under discussion by Sir G. Clerk.
 Mr. Hawes  moved the omission of the clause, as he thought the law as it at present stood sufficiently stringent.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that this and the following clause appeared to him to be so objectionable, that he should divide upon it.
 Mr. Escott  thought the distinctions in the law of property, which that Bill sought to do away with, had been originally introduced for very wise and beneficial purposes; and that if the alteration made by the present Bill were hereafter carried further, it would produce very bad effects in the criminal jurisprudence of the country. He would, therefore, wish to resist it at
 1188 l.
 Mr. Shaw  also concurred in the necessity of establishing such an inquiry as that recommended by the hon. Member for Stockport; but considered it very essential for the public benefit that no time should be lost, if it were once commenced, in coming to a decision on this important subject. It was of great moment that as little delay as possible should take place in conducting it to a termination.
 Mr. Curteis  said, as a sportsman and a farmer, he should stand up to support the value set upon dogs. He could assure hon. Gentlemen that the loss of a valuable sporting dog was a very serious matter indeed. Without giving any opinion as to whether the penalties proposed to be fixed by the Bill were too stringent or not, he wished, as one who kept a great number of sporting dogs, not only for his own amusement, but for that of his friends and tenants, to bear testimony to the great value which was, in many cases, set upon them.
 Mr. Ricardo  also advocated the necessity of instituting a full inquiry into the subject of the best gauge to be established, as well as for the purpose of obviating the acknowledged inconvenience of different gauges on railways in communication with each other.
 Mr. Henley  said, in his neighbourhood the crime of dog stealing was very little heard of; but still he had been informed that there was a difficulty in procuring search warrants in instances where dogs had been stolen. It was thought that the cases were such as to render it hardly worth while to take that course, and it was also feared that the issue of a warrant would induce the parties to cut the dog's throat.
 Mr. Borthwick  considered that the dogs which this Bill was intended to protect, were the very worst species of dogs. They
 1189
 Mr. Cobden  briefly replied.
 Mr. Cobden  said, in rising to bring forward a Motion of which he had given notice, for the purpose of issuing a Commission to inquire into the propriety of establishing a uniformity of gauge for all railways, it was not his intention to go into any theoretical views, for the present, as to the comparative merits of the broad or narrow gauges. He referred briefly to various petitions which he had received on this subject from different parts of the country, and read a few extracts from the same, pointing out the evils and inconveniences
 1183 "That, it having been represented to this House by petitions from various public bodies, as well as from merchants, manufacturers, and others, that serious impediments to the internal traffic of the country are likely to arise from the 'breaks' that will occur in railway communications from the want of a uniform gauge; and these representations not having been fully inquired into by any of the Committees of this House upon Private Bills, and it being desirable that the subject should be further investigated, an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying Her Majesty to be graciously pleased to issue a Commission to inquire whether in future Private Acts for the construction of railways, provision ought to be made for securing a uniform gauge; and whether it would be expedient and practicable to take measures to bring the railways already constructed, or in progress of construction, in Great Britain, into uniformity of gauge; and to inquire whether any other mode of obviating or mitigating the apprehended evil could be adopted, and to report the same to this House."
 Mr. Watson  thought the penalty inflicted by the clause too much for stealing all the dogs in England.
 Mr. David Dundas  wished to call the attention of Her Majesty's Government to this Bill. One of the provisions introduced in the measure was, to make a man liable to transportation for seven years for stealing a dog; but after the recent amendments which had been made in the criminal law, he thought it ill became any one who wished well to the criminal jurisprudence of this country, to permit such violent penalties to be rashly introduced into our criminal code. He fully concurred in all that could be said in praise of the motives which induced the hon. Member (Mr. Liddell) to bring in the Bill; but he, at the same time, thought it was the duty of the Government to step in and prevent the passing of any provision which would impose a penalty of transportation for seven years for the stealing of such an article as a dog. He also thought that the law, as it at present stood, quite sufficient for all exigencies that might arise. By the Statute of the 7th and 8th Geo. IV., a penalty of 20 l., 1186
 Mr. F. T. Baring  would be sorry if the Government objected to the fullest possible investigation into all the merits of a subject which was so important, and upon which it was so expedient to arrive at a satisfactory conclusion.
 Sir G. Clerk  did not wish to offer any opposition to the Motion of the hon. Member for Stockport, because the question of which it treated was one which had assumed so much importance as to render it very desirable that it should be examined into by a proper tribunal, whose decision might carry weight with it in the opinion of that House. But, at the same time, he would throw out a sugges-
 1184
 Mr M. Philips  seconded the Motion.
 Mr. Ward  highly approved of the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Stockport; but at the same time he confessed, he feared it would be impossible to obtain a uniformity of gauge now throughout the country. His suggestion, however, for drawing certain lines of demarcation through the various districts of the king-
 1185
 Sir J. Graham  said, he would advise his hon. Friend not to persevere in fixing the penalty for dog stealing at transportation for seven years. But he wished, at the same time, to remark to the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Dundas), who had objected to that penalty, that there were some strange anomalies in the law as it now stood. He had been credibly informed that in one case, where a dog worth 25 l. l. s. d. l., s. d. s. d., l.
 The Solicitor General  rose to move, in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee, that in the case of "Howard  v. 1209 1210 v. 1211 1212 1213 1214 l. 1215 1216 1217 Hume: 1218 1219 l.; l. v.
 Mr. Wynn  observed that his hon. Friend could not at that stage propose his Resolutions as an Amendment.
 Mr. J. Stuart Wortley  said, he regarded the question before them as one of such importance, so far as the privileges of the House and their constitutional rights as citizens were concerned, that he could not allow it to be decided without rendering all the assistance which he was capable of affording in order to enable the House to come to a proper decision. He did not consider the question before them to be merely whether they were to submit their privileges to the decision of a court of law, or whether they should refuse so to submit to them. If that were the question, he would very easily decide it so far as his views were concerned; namely, by maintaining that in no case whatever, whether directly or indirectly, should they submit their privileges to the decisions of a court of law—that in no case should they allow the courts of law to have an opportunity of considering or deciding upon the privileges of the House of Commons; for he looked upon it as essential to the functions of that House, which was itself one of the elements of the Constitution, that its privileges should be maintained. That was not now the question which they were called upon to decide;
 1246 habeas corpus habeas corpus habeas corpus 1247 1248 1249
 Colonel Peel  stated, that his hon. and gallant Friend had no objection to the course proposed to be taken. It happened, however, that the decision respecting car-
 1305
 Lord John Russell : I do not feel that I can altogether avoid taking a part in the discussion of this question, after the statements of my hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford, and of the noble Lord the Member for Hertford. Had the only question to be discussed been that which was proposed by the Solicitor General, I should have been satisfied to rest upon the statement of the hon. and learned Gentleman, clear and able as it was, and to have voted with him, without intruding upon the House any observations of mine; but the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, and the noble Lord opposite (Lord Mahon), have expressed opinions with respect to the powers and privileges of this House, which, agreeing as I do with the Solicitor General, I cannot allow to pass unnoticed. The noble Lord told us of various instances in which the privileges of the House had been abused; and the hon. Baronet advises us to acquiesce in a judgment which has been stated to be conformable to the law, and to submit in future to the judgment of the Court of Queen's Bench. That is inconsistent with the view which I take of the privileges of this House; inasmuch, as I consider it as necessary for this House to maintain the law and privileges of Parliament, as it is for the Court of Queen's Bench to interpret and maintain the Common Law of the country. If I refer to authorities, I find this statement made by Lord Tenterden, and by the noble Lord who is now deservedly Chief Justice in the Court of Queen's Bench. That noble
 1250 1251 1252 1253 1254 1255 1256 1257 1258 1259 1260
 Mr. Hawes  said, that he rose
 1303 1304 ex-parle,
 Mr. Hawes  said, that not ten minutes ago he had spoken to the gallant Member for Chippenham, on the subject, who informed him that he had no objection to the course which he (Mr. Hawes) proposed to take.
 Mr. Escott  observed that if he thought the House had submitted the question as to the validity of the warrant to the judgment of the Court of Queen's Bench, and that that Court had decided on that point, the question would stand on a very different footing to what it did. He perfectly recollected the debates which took place in 1843, when the House directed its Officer to plead to the action; and he was convinced, from what then took place, that it never
 1234 1235 1236
 Mr. Speaker  said, that the hon. Member could not then propose his Resolutions by way of Amendment, as the House had decided on the recent Amendment, that the words proposed to be left out stand part of the Question.
 Mr. Speaker  observed, that when the conduct of a Member of that House was impugned, it was the rule to ask the hon. Member whether he objected to the printing the petition until an opportunity had been afforded him of explanation.
 Mr. C. W. Wynn  was understood to say that he felt it would be exceedingly difficult for him—even with the indulgence which had been granted to him of speaking from his seat—to do justice to the arguments which pertained to the question before them. He should, however, be sorry, considering the situation which he had held in the Committee, to appear to shrink from stating his opinion to the House. If he could agree with the noble Lord who had spoken last, that this question was one of little importance, and that the decision of the Court of Queen's Bench could be passed by, he might be disposed to think, with him, that it would be more expedient to reserve their strength for a more urgent occasion. But the present case appeared to him to strike at the very root of their privileges, and to have a tendency to destroy that bulwark by which alone they could be maintained—viz., that that House, and that House alone, was competent to consider questions of this nature. If he were inclined to go into details, he could easily show that if they were to submit to a law court examining into the validity of one case, they would have to submit in another. It was almost their daily practice to sum-
 1243 1244 "The defendant, he says, being an officer of the House of Commons, is protected by an Order of the House, directing him to do to the plaintiff, the identical act complained of. Such an order of itself, and without more, is an answer to the action. Now, this is the leading proposition maintained by the defendant in the case of Stockdale and Hansard, and it was upon examination deliberately denied by the unanimous judgment of this Court. To this doctrine, established by that judgment, I fully adhere; unquestioned as it has been in any Court of Error, strictly conformable as I am firmly convinced it is to the principles of our law, and essential to the existence of a free constitution." 1245
 Mr. Fitz Roy Kelly  begged to express his entire concurrence with the noble Lord who had just sat down, in the proposition that the privileges of that House should be determined in that House, and in that House alone, and that the privileges of the House, as established by the deliberate Resolution of the House, became part and parcel of the laws of the land. He conceived, however, that it was from misapprehension of the true meaning and effect of this undoubted legal proposition, that so many, so unjust, and so unfair attacks had been made upon the judgment of the Court of Queen's Bench. He could not but persuade himself, if any hon. Gentleman in that House would deliberately sit
 1261 1262 1263 1264 habeas corpus, 1265 1266 bonâ fide 1267 1268 habeas corpus, habeas corpus, 1269 dictum 1270 l. l., l., 1271 1272 1273
 Mr. Serjeant Murphy  could not suppose that the country at large could be induced to regard the privileges of that House with particular anxiety, when it saw from the state of the House that it appeared that it set so little regard on them itself when a question arose between the authority of the tribunals of the country as to the maintenance of their privileges. At that moment there was exhibited in the thin attendance of Members such a state of things that, if it was to be taken as an indication out of doors of the feeling of the House on the subject, it would lead to the inference that it was utterly indifferent to the maintenance of its privileges. Although there was a paucity of Members in the House at that moment, yet, from the presence of the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury, they might expect to hear from him a declaration on the part of the Government as to the course which it intended to recommend the House to adopt. When the first question of privilege arose connected with the case in 1837, namely, that of Stockdale and Hansard, he had not the honour of a seat in that House; but he was not insensible to the importance of the question which then agitated the country, and of the conflict which had arisen on it between the House of Commons and the tribunals of the land. He had had the advantage and satisfaction of hearing the arguments addressed to the Court of Queen's Bench in vindication of the privileges of that House, and although he attached considerable value to those arguments, he could not help feeling at the time that a precipitate step had been taken which should not have been; and that, notwithstanding the ability of the learned persons engaged for the House, still the tendency of that course was to fritter away the privileges of that House. His hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General had stated to the House the present state of the case, and the proceedings which had
 1237 1238 1239 l.,
 Mr. Roebuck  explained. What he had stated was, that the House should, if the emergency arose, commit every person who should have interfered with their privileges, and who were not exempted from arrest by being privileged parties—namely, Peers of the realm.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, the Amendment having been disposed of, the matter of fact now remained for them to decide whether they were to pursue the course proposed to be taken by his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General, or whether any bet-
 1221 1222 l. 1223 l. Member: 1224
 Mr. Hume  said, that the debate had not been resumed, inasmuch as the hon. and learned Gentleman had made a specific Motion. He had admitted that the House had committed a great error, and that all who had recommended the step which had been taken, were disappointed;
 1220 "That it is inexpedient to entrust the maintenance of the Privilege of this House to any other authority than that of this House itself."
 Sir Robert H. Inglis  said, in one point he agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman who had last addressed the House, that whether to-day or to-morrow, whether this year or five years hence, that ultimate decision must be attained, to which the hon. and learned Gentleman had specially called the attention of Her Majesty's Government. The House must make up its mind to the alternative, not of a writ of error—not of an appeal to the House of Lords, but—supposing these tribunals were adverse to what are called the privileges of that House, to the course
 1225
 Sir R. Inglis : In that case the hon. and learned Gentleman would go to the extent of committing to custody such men as Mr. Justice Wightman and Mr. Justice Patteson—[Mr.  Roebuck: 1226 habeas corpus, Roebuck: 1227 ipse dixit, 1228 Times, habeas corpus T. Wilde: habeas corpus, T. Wilde: habeas corpus 1229 pro re nata. 1230 1231 Escott: "1. Whereas, it is the privilege of every subject of the realm, when imprisoned under any authority, warrant, or colour of law, to sue out his writ of  habeas corpus; 1232 habeas corpus, habeas corpus "2. And whereas, it is nevertheless essential for the due discharge of the functions of the House of Commons, as the grand inquest of the nation, that it should possess summary powers for enforcing the attendance of their fellow subjects—the commonalty of this realm, before the House; while yet it is not essential that such powers should be exercised otherwise than in a form and manner recognised by law; and whereas, the form of the warrant which constituted the subject of the action, Howard  v. "3. And whereas, it hath appeared in evidence before the Committee, that there is no collection of formulas of warrants to be issued, and no complete record or entry of warrants which have been issued. Resolved, that this House will cause certain formulas of warrants to be prepared, in blank, under the advice of the Law Officers of the Crown, and Her Majesty's Counsel, being Members of this House, and with the sanction of Mr. Speaker, which
 1233 "4. Whereas, this House did, on the 15th March, 1843, order that the Atorney General do defend the action brought by Thomas Burton Howard against the Sergeant-at-Arms attending this House, the cause of which action was alleged to have been an illegal imprisonment of the said Thomas Burton Howard by the said Sergeant-at-Arms, under a certain warrant issued by Mr. Speaker, by the authority of the House; and whereas, this House did thereby submit the validity of such warrant to the judgment of the Court of Queen's Bench; and whereas, the judgment of the said Court hath been passed against the validity of the said warrant, and in favour of the plaintiff on the record; and whereas, this House did, by the Order made on the 6th of February, 1840, for bringing Thomas Burton Howard to the bar of the House imply, as aforesaid, that Mr. Speaker's warrant, of the 4th of February, 1840, was not valid for the purpose to which it was applied, namely, for bringing the said Thomas Burton Howard to the bar, and that accordingly the said warrant was, in the opinion of the same House, under the authority of which it was issued, invalid, as it was subsequently held by the Judges in the case in question; Resolved, that the House will not take any steps for reversing the said judgment."
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that if that were the case, he was sorry that he had taken up so much of the time of the House in reading them, but he certainly should request the opinion of the Speaker on the subject.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that in the course of his speech the hon. and learned Gentleman had given a solemn exhortation to the House, that they should adopt no step of their own inherent authority for the vindication of their own privileges, unless they first carefully considered all the consequences of the first step, and unless they were determined steadily and perseveringly to go through with that determination. It was because he agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman—because he thought it of the utmost importance that, if the House chose to take a step upon its own authority to vindicate its own privileges, he came to the conclusion that every other course should be adopted before he would call upon the House to vindicate its privileges by its own authority. He looked at the constitution of that House, and he saw a popular assembly divided on this question, men of high authority disposed to support the authority of the courts of law—he saw the probability that the proposal to act by their own authority would meet with great opposition—he looked back at the course which the House had pursued, and he saw the noble Lord, who was prepared to vindicate the privileges of the House engaged in a similar contest, and he had assisted the noble Lord, the leader of a party, in the course which had been taken, by which the Sheriffs were committed. He remembered the determination of that contest, and the release of the Sheriffs, and all he then wit-
 1295 1296 1297 1298 v. "If this return were the commitment of an inferior court, it had been nought, because it did not set out a sufficient cause of committal: but this return being of a commitment by the House of Commons, which is superior to this court, it is not reversible for mere form." "It is objected that by Magna Charta no man can be taken or imprisoned except by the law of the land." "The  lex terræ Lex Parliamenti. 1299 "The prisoners were committed by another law, and therefore, can't be discharged by the law according to which they were not committed." "It has been settled by many precedents brought forward at different periods in the Courts of Westminster, and finally in Burdett  v. "In a great many cases of Shaftesbury, Patey, &c, there is decisive authority to show that the courts cannot judge of the law, custom and usage of Parliament, and consequently cannot discharge a person committed by Parliament for contempt." "We cannot inquire into the force of the commitment, even supposing it to be open to the objection of informality." "We can't inquire into the particular words of the warrant, or into the circumstances of the execution. It is our duly to presume these were the orders of the House, and that they were carried into execution according to law." 1300 v. T. Wilde 1301
 Sir Thomas Wilde  was not, he said, at all surprised to find that his hon. and learned Friend who had just sat down should be willing to concur in the recommendation of the Committee, because he stood precisely in that situation in which it was to be expected that such an opinion would be entertained by him. He did not very well comprehend how his hon. and learned Friend could reconcile that part of his argument in which he maintained that the Court of Queen's Bench would, upon all occasions, decide in favour of their privileges wherein they exercised them in case of an extreme emergency, and yet would not do so in the present instance. He thought there was a variance in that part of the argument, and that the statements made in the one case and the other were not very consistent. His hon. and learned Friend had adverted to some remarks that had been made upon the fact of his having been counsel for one of these parties. His hon. and learned Friend asked, was that House to entrust to some of its Members to support its privileges, and were others not to contest against its privileges? He did not apprehend why it should not do so. He did not understand, if they were correct, and he thought they were, in maintaining the privileges of the people—those privileges which they had in trust—that they had received on that condition and under those circumstances, that the people had confided them to the House, and in which they had been given to them ever since the last election; and if the House were prepared to maintain itself in that state and condition in the Constitution, he said, that in that case, he could understand, when a Member of Parliament was elected for the purpose of maintaining the powers of the Commons of England, that it was not reasonable that a Member elected for the maintenance of these powers, should be found acting as the advocate against these very privileges. Yet that was the condition of his
 1274 1275 Blackstone, 1276 1277 1278 1279 1280 v. v. v. 1281 1282 1283 1284 1285 1286 1287 1288 1289 "Neither can I advise the House to appeal from the judgment of the Queen's Bench to the Exchequer Chamber, or to the other House of Parliament, for by so doing you further recognise a breach of privilege." "Suppose we had persevered in pleading, and had carried the case in error before the fifteen Judges, and they had decided against us, we should have manifested no desire to vindicate our privileges." "Our next step would be to carry the question before the House of Lords, and if they decide against us how many more of our privileges might not be endangered by their decision!" 1290 1291 1292 1293 1294
 Viscount Mahon  said, it was with great pain he beheld their old debates on the question of privilege revived. When he remembered what had passed in the House—and out of it—a few years since, and how little the course we then took had added to our real power and reputation, he had hoped that no occasion would have arisen again to kindle the flame of discord and animosity which had died away after the former discussion. But while he referred to the former discussion, he could not help adding the expression of his deep regret at the absence from the present discussion of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Exeter—of him whose eloquent voice had been so often heard on this subject—that eloquent voice which they might never hear again. With respect to the question immediately before the House, he did not think that the course proposed by the Solicitor General, and approved by the majority of the Committeee, involved any violation of principle. It was perfectly open to us, as it was open to the meanest suitor of the realm, to appeal to a superior court, if we thought ourselves aggrieved by the sentence of an inferior tribunal. In this there could be no violation of principle. But he (Lord Mahon) still objected to the course proposed, not indeed on point of principle, but on the ground of its being inconsistent
 1240 1241 Constitutional History, "The privileges of the House of Commons—those privileges which, in 1642, all London rose in arms to defend, which the people considered as synonymous with their own liberties, and in comparison with which they took no account of the most sacred and precious principles of English jurisprudence—have now become nearly as odious as the rigours of martial law." 1242
 Captain Berkeley  said, that he would withdraw his Motion, and give notice of another Motion on the subject on Monday next.
 Captain Berkeley , pursuant to the Notice he had given, begged to call the attention of the House to the great hardship and injustice to which parties opposing railways which were to cross or interfere with any tidal rivers, arms of the sea, or creeks, over which the Board of Admiralty had control, were exposed in appearing before Committees of the House on Private Bills, without the Bills having first obtained the sanction of that Board, according to the provisions of the Act 8th of Victoria, cap. 20. An instance of this kind occurred in the case of the South Wales Railway, the opponents of which had been put to great expense by not knowing in the early stage of the Bill, that the Admiralty had refused its assent to carrying a line of railway across a bridge to be built over the Severn. Had the parties been informed of this intention of the Admiralty at an earlier stage, it would, he repeated, have put a stop to much needless expenditure. He hoped that the House would take some steps to remedy the evil; and with that view he would now move that the question be referred to the Committee Orders.
 Mr. Fitzroy  said, that the changes of
 1316
 Mr. H. F. Berkeley  said, the case was one of great hardship on the parties, and he hoped that some means would be taken to remove the evil.
 Mr. Williams  said, after the three charges which were brought against the Post Office Department, he thought the Government were bound to grant the Committee of Inquiry. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cardwell) had not denied these charges, he had merely endeavoured to palliate them; but he (Mr. Williams) would ask seriously were such grave accusations to be dismissed in such a manner? The heads of public departments made it a rule, on all occasions, to defend the acts of their subordinates; but in this, the most important branch of the public service committed to the care of the Government, he trusted such a course would not be persevered in without an inquiry being instituted.
 Mr. Baring  would not trouble the House with more than two or three words. Though he was not prepared to go the full length of assenting to the appointment of the Committee, he still thought the subject one which the Government ought to take under their consideration. He did not agree in terming the Post Office Directory a job; but he would not at the same time say that a better arrangement than the present system might not be adopted.
 Mr. Bernal  said, the inquiry called for by the hon. Member was absolutely necessary. There was, unfortunately, too great an apathy in this country, with regard to such subjects as these, because they had not the interest of personality and strong political feeling. If the state of the Treasury did not allow the right hon. Baronet to give the public money for the promotion of these objects, a public subscription ought to be opened for the purpose. We were the only country in the world which left these matters to private enterprise and taste. At the Louvre there was a large collection of middle-age relies; but we had no such public collection. He thought that the Motion of his hon. Friend was somewhat too confined—that it ought to extend to antiquities generally, which were analogous to and coeval with the antiquities of this country—for instance, those which were to be found in Brittany. There ought to be an institution where the student could see the dresses, weapons, costumes, and antiquities of past ages. It was true that there was the Geological Museum, but it was confined in its objects. And at the British Museum there were vast collections of most interesting objects, which, however, either from want of room, or want of good will on the part of the conductors of the institution, were not properly accessible. He was satisfied that if a national museum were once established, private individuals would at once contribute to it. Such an institution would have the best effect on the manners and morals of the people.
 The Earl of Lincoln  observed, in answer
 *1335
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, the proposal for depositing them in the New Houses of Parliament had been abandoned, and the matter had been referred to Sir F. Palgrave.
 Mr. Bernal  called the attention of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government to the fact of a picture having been purchased for the National Gallery for 600 l., l. soi-disant
 Sir R. Ferguson  said, the complaint was that the Commissioners did not perform their duties so as to give general satisfaction; and he hoped that in the next Session a thorough investigation into the whole matter would take place.
 Captain Boldero  was understood to say, that measures had been adopted for the actual prosecution of that important work.
 Captain Boldero  said, the present was the first time since he had a seat in that House that he had heard anything in disparagement of this splendid corps. If they did not keep up the number of the Horse Artillery, they would weaken their cavalry, because it covered the movements of the cavalry. A great advantage in maintaining this corps in a state of efficiency was, that if they found it necessary to double their Horse Artillery force, they could do so by merely providing horses. It was a poor economy to disband this fine corps for a saving of 1,700 l.,
 Captain Boldero  was understood to say, that there had been some difficulty in deciding upon a proper site; but that, this being supplied, a new church would speedily be commenced.
 Captain Boldero  was understood to say, that in the works now under execution for barrack accommodation, provision had been made for those important purposes.
 Captain Boldero : I think, Sir, that I shall, in rising to second the Motion, best perform my duty by following the example of the hon. Gentleman. At the same time, I cannot forbear stating that both Mr. Bonham and myself are extremely anxious that the investigation shall be of the most searching character.
 Mr. Liddell  observed, that it was just that the State should defray the expenses of the Commission, as the whole community benefited by its labours.
 Mr. Hawes  wished to put in one word for the modern school of painting by our own countrymen. Their works, he believed, if wisely selected, might form a collection which would compare with any gallery that had ever existed.
In answer to a question from  Mr. Hawes ,
 Mr. Hawes  remarked, the question had been so long under consideration, that, before it was settled, in all probability the records would be burnt.
 Mr. Hawes : I am glad to hear the expressions which have fallen from the hon. and gallant Member. I trust that neither will there be any opposition to the order of reference for which I also mean to move. My object is to extend the inquiry to the circumstances connected with the progress of this Bill through the House in 1836. If there be any objection, I shall probably be in a condition to present a petition on the subject. I should rather have the order of reference, if not objected to; but if it is, I shall take futher steps on a subsequent day.
 Mr. Hawes : As Her Majesty's Government have consented to the appointment of the Committee of which I gave notice, viz., "A Select Committee to inquire into the allegations of the Petition of the South Eastern Railway Company, under their common seal, presented on the 26th of June," and as the hon. and gallant Captain the Clerk of the Board of Ordnance is present, I think I shall best discharge my duty by simply moving for that Committee, unaccompanying the Motion by any further statement. The hon. Member accordingly made the Motion.
 Mr. Hawes : I meant to proceed on well-founded information; but I can present the petition.
 Mr. Cardwell  said, notwithstanding his great respect for the hon. Member for Montrose, he was afraid he could not consent to adopt his advice by granting the Motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury. [Mr.  Hume: 1325 1326 l.
 Mr. Protheroe  asked if any plan had been adopted for the more perfect custody and preservation of the records?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the Commission was appointed for the
 1339
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  (who was most indistinctly heard), said that the hon. Gentlemen who had brought forward and seconded this Motion, did not appear to have taken into consideration that the works of foreign countries were under the influence of the Crown or the Government, whereas a great deal had been left in England to the exertions of private individuals, or companies of persons associated together for the promotion of art. It was quite true that our national galleries and public collections would not compare with many foreign galleries; but, at the same time, it should not be forgotten that there were very valuable collections in the possession of many members of the nobility and gentry of this couuntry; and he was persuaded that, could it ever happen that, by any extraordinary circumstances, those works should be accumulated into one gallery,
 1333
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the hon. Gentleman was probably aware that the form of the annual financial accounts as rendered to the House was that which was settled after the union of the Exchequers of Great Britain and Ireland, and continued up to the present period. The greater portion of the information desired by the hon. Gentleman in a separate form was contained in those accounts. To alter their form he thought would be attended with great inconvenience, as it was a great advantage to have the opportunity of making a comparison of one year with another. If any additional details were desired by the hon. Gentleman, he should be happy to grant them. Respecting the second question, he was not at all disposed to deny that for some statistical purpose such an account as the hon. Gentleman wished for might be advantageous; but, in order to make it so, it should be accurate, and, in order to make it accurate, it should be taken at the Custom-house, a step which would at once deprive Ireland of the benefit of having her trade with this country upon the footing of a coasting trade. It did not appear to him that the statistical advantage would compensate for the real evil that would result.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that in proportion as the power of the Admiralty was great in stopping great undertakings, so ought to be its prudence and caution in the use of it. Due notice should be given of every objection made by it.
 Mr. Warburton  trusted that the right hon. Baronet would be prepared, in the
 1338
 Mr. Curteis  thought it was a very great hardship that he should receive his letters an hour and a half later than other persons, merely because he would not submit to pay an illegal fee. If his constituents received answers to their letters from him later than they might wish, he hoped they would know that the blame rested not with him, but with the Post Office.
 Dr. Bowring  said, the Post Office was a public establishment, paid for by equal contributions from the community at large; but, he would ask, did it contribute equal benefits to all parties? Fees had been destroyed in other departments of the public service; but they were unjustly retained in this, and thus he who could go with a fee in his hand to the Post Office was enabled to obtain benefits which were denied to the poor man. It was often as necessary for the less opulent merchant to receive early intelligence from the Continent or elsewhere as for the wealthy man; but by the present
 1327
 Dr. Bowring  wished to know if there were any hope of improving the external appearance of the National Gallery. If any proposition were made for that purpose, he was sure that all parties would cordially concur in supporting it.
 Dr. Bowring  expressed his concurrence in the objection taken by the hon. Member for Coventry.
 Mr. J. O'Connell  put the following question to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer:—Whether the Government will take into consideration the propriety of adding to the statement of the Expenditure of the United Kingdom, given in the Finance Acccounts of each year, a special statement of the local expenditure of Ireland; that is, of all disbursements out of the revenue of Ireland, of whatever nature they may be, and a statement of the balance remitted to England? Also, whether the Government will take into consideration the propriety of establishing some means of registry, for statistical purposes, of the nature, quantity, official and real values of all articles of traffic passing between Great Britain and Ireland; and thus supply a deficiency much complained of by the Irish Railway Commissioners of 1838; by Mr. Porter, in his  Progress of the Nation; 1317
 Mr. Hume , in seconding the Motion, said, that the question was one of great importance to all who had embarked capital in railways. In the case to which his hon. Friend had called the attention of the House, certain parties had not come up to defend their interests, for they had no idea that a refusal would be given by the Admiralty to erect a bridge over the Severn. Now, as no bridge could be erected after this refusal, the only way of carrying the line across, would be by a tunnel under the river; but here a new difficulty presented itself, for it was well known that the navigation of the Severn could be much improved by cutting the bed of the river twenty feet below low watermark; but if this were done, it would require to go to a depth of fifty feet to make a tunnel; and this would cause a total change in the plans, sections, and levels.
 Mr. Hume  wished to say a few words on the subject of the Motion before the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Cardwell) commenced his reply. He was strongly of opinion that the Committee ought to be appointed, even from the consideration of saving the Government much trouble which the Post Office Department now gave them. No hon. Member could visit the city without being astonished at the number of complaints made in all quarters against the Post Office. In every department of the public Revenue the payment of fees formerly existed to a great extent, and a Committee was appointed on his Motion for the purpose of inquiring into them. From the difficulties, however, which were found to exist in the way of a proper inquiry before the Committee, the Government of the day consented to issue a Commission having the same object in view. The Report of the Commission was in favour of doing away with these fees altogether, and the consequence was, that the payment of fees was abolished in every department of the State with the exception of the Post Office alone. The efforts of a Committee, if appointed, to inquire into the state of that establishment, would, he was satisfied, be of considerable service to the Post Office itself, as well as of great use to the public at large. It was
 1324
 Mr. Borthwick  thought it extremely desirable that increased care should be bestowed upon the preservation of the religious and ecclesiastical monuments of this country, even to the comparative
 1334
 Mr. T. Duncombe  rose to move, pursuant to notice—
 "That the Returns, No. 72 and 248, made by the General Post Office, be referred to a Select Committee, with a view of inquiring into the accuracy of those Returns; also into the present mode of remunerating by fees and perquisites certain officers of the General Post Office, and how far the duties of that establishment may be rendered more satisfactory to the public, and less unequal and oppressive to the persons engaged therein." 1320 s. s. s. l. l. l. Post Office Directory. l. s. d.; 1321 l. l. Post Office Directory s. s., s. s., s. l. l.; l.; l.; l. l. Post Office Shipping List, Packet List 1322 Directory l. Directory "Fellow-men, read the order emanating from your superior, and wonder by what authority he has imposed such conditions on you! Who has sanctioned this monopoly? Will you submit to have this slavery fastened on you, to serve the private interests of an individual? Are we the servants of a bookseller or of the Queen? Too long have these interests been cultivated at our expense. Men, be firm! Strike the hand that would forge your fetters. Shall you be the slaves of monopoly? — slaves to interests which are fostered by official resources? Let the devil take all dishonesty, and be honest to yourselves. Redeem yourselves by forming a capital of 1,000 l. 1323
 Mr. Redington  thought that the expenses of the Commission should be paid out of the funds in the hands of the Commissioners, before they applied any money to the increase of endowments.
 Mr. Redington  said, it was well worth while that the House should know how the Poor Laws had operated in Ireland. In many parts of that country they had not operated as had been anticipated. Inquiry into the operation of the law, and the manner in which the Assistant-Commissioners had performed their duties, was extremely desirable. He was not one of those who were entirely opposed to a Poor Law; but all the facts attending the working of the system should induce the Government to institute a proper investigation.
 Mr. Redington  thought the inquiry ought to originate with the Government.
 Mr. Redington  said, the Government might have sufficient information; but it was from the very parties of whom they complained. They wished for the inquiry, that the House might be informed on what was the state and operation of the law. The Irish Members at present believed themselves to be better acquainted with the state of the question in that country than the Government; the Government having sufficient information for itself, had never made a reply to a request by an English Member for an inquiry into the English Poor Law: and if any inferences should be drawn by others from it, it was not the Irish Members who would be responsible for it.
 Mr. Wyse , pursuant to notice, rose to move
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, that She will be graciously pleased to issue a Commission for the purpose of considering the best means for establishing and maintaining a Museum of National Antiquities in conjunction with a Commission for the conservation of National Monuments." 1330 1331
 Mr. Wyse  having replied,
 Mr. Ewart  said, it was a mistake to suppose that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Wyse) wished to have existing monuments dispoiled; he only desired to have them concentrated in one establishment, instead of mouldering in various public edifices. He entirely concurred in the view which had just been taken in reference to cathedrals. Forming, as cathedrals did, part of the history and religion of the country, it was the duty of the Government to do all in its power to secure their being open to the public without any charge whatever.
 Mr. Ewart , referring to the dispute which occurred in the School of Design, and which had resulted, he said, in the dismissal of the second master, and the withdrawal of the pupils almost without exception, wished to know whether the discord still continued, or whether there was any hope of its being settled?
 Mr. W. Williams  said, that the only vote which had been taken on these Estimates on a former occasion had been voted at a late hour of the night, and at a time when he had not an opportunity of making the few observations he was desirous of offering to the House upon them. He was sorry to see that there was so great an increase in this department of the public service in the present year. The Estimates consisted of nine votes, and in seven of those nine votes there was an increase of 284,000 l., l. 1335
 Mr. Williams  opposed the Vote; for he thought it unjust to tax for any such purpose those who did not conform to the doctrines of the Established Church.
 Sir Charles Lemon  said, the Papers before the House furnished a satisfactory answer to the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cardwell). It was plain that the Post Office authorities had been deceived by their subordinate officer in Cornwall, as that was the only manner in which he could account for their seeing the question in a different light from every other person who knew anything whatever about it.
 Sir C. Napier  inquired if a Supplementary Vote was intended to be brought forward for the retired Navy list this year?
 Sir G. Clerk  said, a difference of opinion unfortunately arose in the early part of this year between the director of the school and some of the masters, regarding the principles upon which the education of the pupils should be conducted. Several of the students joined warmly on the side of the master, and expressed themselves disrespectfully of the character and attainments of the director. The council, considering this to be a gross act of insubordination, felt it to be their painful duty to interfere, by suspending the pupils who had so erred until they made an apology. The disagreement still continuing, the council felt themselves under the necessity of changing the second master;
 1318
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that no doubt the Admiralty possessed the power of pulling down any erections made without their permission; but the parties connected with any railway or other undertaking should apply to the Admiralty in the first instance, and then they would be made acquainted with the alterations to be proposed, and would thus be saved much time and expense. But the Standing Orders' Committee had nothing to do with the case, if the parties neglected what was an obvious duty.
 Sir G. Cockburn  thought he might venture to promise as much.
 Sir G. Grey  concurred in thinking that it would be very desirable that as early a notice as possible should be given by the Admiralty Board of any objections which it had to make to lines crossing rivers or arms of the sea over which they had control.
 Captain Pechell , in seconding the Motion, complained of the abuses in the mail-packet department of the Post Office in regard to irregularity and expense. The mails had been detained as long as six months together at the Scilly Islands; and as to expense, the Government had expended in employing two vessels to carry the mails from Penzance to Scilly 1,300 l. s. d.
 Sir H. Douglas  wished to know whether any, and what, measures were adopted for the purpose of prosecuting the Ordnance Survey of Scotland—the elementary and secondary triangulation of which had been so long contemplated?
 Sir H. Douglas  would take that opportunity of asking whether any, and what, measures were adopted in the erection or enlargement of barracks, at home and abroad, to provide chapels for Divine service, and which might likewise be used as school rooms; and which he (Sir H. Douglas) thought should be provided wherever barrack accommodation for the head quarters, or for any considerable detachment of a regiment, might be permanently provided for.
 Sir H. Douglas  entreated the Committee not to be led away by the hon. Member's regard for pecuniary economy, to interfere with this splendid and efficient corps—the Horse Artillery. The hon. Member said it might be dispensed with in peace, and speedily reconstituted for war. This was not so. No corps of this description and scientific character could be suddenly formed. Nothing in our military system had contributed more to the success and renown of our arms, than that power of concentration, celerity of movement, and active combination of artillery with the other arms, which attended the introduction of horse artillery. The efficiency of the horse artillery was the result of many years of improvement and experience. He (Sir H. Douglas) would not attempt to take up the time of the Committee to trace this. For this, it would be necessary to go back to the time of Frederick the Great, who introduced horse artillery in that war, in which, by celerity of movement, he defeated, with the same army, enemies on every frontier of his States. He might show the prodigious advantages reaped in all the armies of Europe from the adoption of this arm—the important uses made of it by Dumourier, Pichegrue, and
 1336 *1333
 Sir H. Douglas : With reference to what had been said by his hon. Friend the Secretary of the Admiralty, on a former occasion, respecting the insufficiency of space on the breakwater at Plymouth, for the erection of a battery, he (Sir H. Douglas) thought it indispensable to the defence of
 *1334
 Sir H. Douglas  wished to ask his hon. and gallant Friend whether any, and what, measures were adopted to provide for the building of a church at Corfu, consequent upon the demolition of that which, standing in the way of improvements in the military defences, had been taken down?
 Sir J. Graham  said, that considering the peculiar circumstances of society in Ireland, which at first rendered the application of a Poor Law to that country a doubtful experiment; and remembering that in many respects the law framed for Ireland differed from the English law; not conferring, for example, any right to relief, even in circumstances of extreme destitution, and exhibiting the absence of any law of settlement, he did not think that inquiry into the operation of the system hitherto would be altogether inexpedient. The ultimate success of the measure must mainly depend on the co-operation of the resident gentry of Ireland. There were great difficulties to be overcome, and there was much opposition to be met, both as regarded the payment of the rate, and the general administration of the law. In a future Session he should by no means be disposed to resist inquiry; but he could assure the hon. Gentleman that the Commissioners relied chiefly on the co-operation of the gentry for the success of the measure, and infinitely preferred such co-operation to the exercise of the powers with which they were invested.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that in October or November, it was likely that a library and reading room would be ready, in which the public might consult the State Papers, an index to which had been completed. l.,
 Sir J. Graham  said, the Government had sufficient information for the execution of its duty; this was the first time this
 1341
 Sir R. Peel  admitted the justice of the hon. Member's claim on the Government to provide adequate accommodation for Members whilst engaged in close attention to their duties.
 Sir R. Peel  said, when the grant for the present National Gallery was made, there were so many claims on the public purse, that Parliament was not disposed to vote a large sum for the purpose. The result, from whatever cause, was, that they had thrown away a most magnificent site. It was impossible to stand on the steps of the present building, and not be convinced of that fact. Very little good, however, would be done by laying out money on the external improvements, such, for instance, as the enlargement of the turrets. In fact, the interior of the building required great alteration before it could be effective for the purpose for which it was designed. For example, a great deal depended on the way in which the light was thrown on the pictures. If the angle of incidence, and the angle of reflection, were not duly attended to, great injustice might be done to a picture of great merit. The erection of a new National Gallery would be much better and cheaper than any attempt to modify or improve the exterior of the present building. This subject was under the consideration of the Government of the country; and he thought, before many years elapsed, we should have a National Gallery worthy the reception of works of art, and calculated to encourage their possessors to bequeath them to the public.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that as one of the Trustees of the National Gallery, he would be happy to give the hon. Member every information. He thought that, speaking generally, the pictures bought by the Trustees were of very high repute. They had procured some of the very finest paintings. He admitted, however, that there were in the National Gallery pictures of an inferior character; but these were not
 1337
 Sir R. Peel : I beg it may be clearly understood, that I did not make the suggestion for the purpose of throwing any impediments in the way of inquiry. I know nothing whatever of the facts of the case.
 Sir R. Peel : I think there should be some foundation for a Motion of this sort. I think it would be better if the hon. Member had a foundation for the extension of his Motion.
 Mr. Hutt  complained of the state of the Committee-rooms, and said that the Members who attended day after day to their duties, ought to have some protection from the dangerous state in which imperfect ventilation left the Committee-rooms.
 Viscount Mahon  suggested the propriety of procuring a collection of portraits of eminent men distinguished in the history of this country. Such a collection might exercise a most beneficial influence upon the rising generation, whilst it could be procured probably at little expense.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he should not consider that he discharged his duty if he allowed the Bill to go into Committee without
 1356
 Lord J. Russell  said, that various Amendments had been proposed or suggested in the progress of the measure; but certainly the subject to which the hon. and learned Member for Cork had alluded was one that ought not to be overlooked. He considered that matter to be of the greatest importance, especially after they had the authority of a Roman Catholic archbishop for calling the measure as it now stood a penal and revolting enactment. These were certainly strong phrases, which might perhaps not have been used by all the members of that body; but it should not be forgotten that the Bill was described as being dangerous to the faith and morals of youth, and that these words had
 1359 O'Connell:
 Lord J. Russell  said, he had an Amendment to propose in the seventeenth line, to the effect that these words be inserted, "including the building of the halls hereinafter mentioned." He had also to move the omission of the words "not exceeding the sum of 33,333 l. s. d. l.
 Mr. V. Smith  supported the Amendment of his noble Friend. The professorial
 1361 J. Graham:
 Lord J. Russell  said, that he did not assent to the argument of the right hon. Gentleman, that the two clauses must be taken together; but he was willing to explain his intention to the Committee. But, first, what was the proposal of the Government? Their original measure had been to provide secular instruction, and to take no notice whatever of religious instruction; but this had subsequently been altered, and by the clause affecting the management of the halls, the Government had
 1362 l.;
 Mr. Bernal  said, if the Government had attempted to make this Bill a religious Bill by the force of compulsion, they would have excited the feelings of the people against them. He, therefore, exhorted
 1366
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he had never been more astonished than by an attack made on him by the hon. Member for Belfast on a former occasion. The report of the hon. Member's speech had, however, no sooner reached Ireland than the hon. Member stated, as indeed, he subsequently mentioned to him (Mr. O'Connell) personally, that the report of what fell from him was not accurately given. All that he (Mr. O'Connell) had said in reply to the hon. Member was, that the hon. Member had shown himself no great witch in his knowledge of public opinion in Ireland. He had made use of no harsher terms.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he was not responsible for the press. Nothing harsher than what he stated fell from him in reference to the hon. Gentleman.
 Viscount Clive  said, that as a great number of pupils must reside at these boarding-houses, and it was important that a sufficiency of them should be provided, he would vote in support of the Amendment.
 Lord J. Russell  thought that the present discussion had gone far beyond the Amendment itself, and had extended to the principle of the Bill; and, in endeavouring to defend the Amendment, he could not altogether avoid touching upon the general argument. He did not at all wonder at the support which the hon. and learned Member for Bath gave to this clause and to the Bill generally. The hon. and learned Gentleman had always contended that it was wise for the State to give secular education; that secular education should be given in common; but that, as there were so many religious differences in this country, that it would be unfair and unjust to single out one, one only, to be favoured by the State; and as it would be impolitic, if not impossible, to provide for all, it was, therefore wise to neglect religious instruction altogether, and to leave such entirely in the hands of the parents and guardians of the young men
 1376 1377
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he had intended to take the opinion of the House on this clause, if he had not been anticipated by the Amendment of the hon. Member for Waterford, and he thought that it would be better if the hon. Member brought in his Amendment as a specific clause. He wished, at all events, to call the attention of the House to the immense power conferred on the Government by this clause. He fully concurred with the noble Lord who had just spoken, that instead of giving the Government unlimited power in these appointments, they ought to fetter their discretion as much as possible. He thought that this was the only chance of gaining credit and confidence for the Bill. It was the duty of the House to keep as close a watch as possible to limit the power of the Government on this subject. The right hon. Gentleman had a little while ago boasted of the success of the Charitable Bequests Bill. Now, he (Mr. O'Connell) denied that the success of the measure was so great as the right hon. Gentleman anticipated. The only chance of success the
 1381
 Mr. M. O'Connell  was glad to bring back the House to the grave subject before them, after the jests and anecdotes with which they had been amused by the hon. Members for Kendal and Perth. All parties in Ireland disliked the appointment of the professorships being vested in
 1385
 Lord J. Russell  thought that the question of the Dublin University required some further examination, because if, as stated by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Shaw), that was the only University to which young men of the highest classes would go, would it be fair that that University should continue to bear its present exclusive character? He was quite as ready as any one to give to the opinion of his hon. Friend the Member for Kendal all the weight to which it was so justly entitled; but he could scarcely go along with his hon. Friend in imputing to the Government a wisdom of decision little short of infallibility; and he felt the less disposed to subscribe to the doctrine of his hon. Friend when he recollected that the greater part of the appointments made by the present Ministers in Ireland had been made in favour of a class of politicians who took the narrowest possible view of
 1389
 Captain Boldero  could not inform the noble Lord how many muskets there were now in store; but he could state that there were manufactured last year, and would be also this year, 40,000 stands of arms, besides swords and other weapons.
 Mr. Fox Maule  took the same view as his hon. Friend the Member for Kendal. He thought, as Government were responsible for the due discharge of their functions to Parliament and the country, it would be better to leave the responsibility of their appointments with them. They could be called to account if they did what was wrong. As regarded, however, the leaving the appointment in the hands of the governing body, he thought no arrangement could be more objectionable. He was very glad to find the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir James Graham) agree with respect to this principle of election. The right hon. Gentleman once filled the office of Lord Rector of Glasgow University, and when in that capacity was of course one of the governing body. He (Mr. Fox Maule) remembered an anecdote which he would tell the House illustrative of the right hon. Gentleman's past experience in this matter. When the Divinity chair became vacant, Dr. Chalmers was a candidate; and there was also another individual, who, though since a distinguished divine, was at that time an unknown country clergyman. They rejected Dr. Chalmers, with his distinguished reputation, and chose his unknown competitor. That was illustrative of the principle of election by the governing body in a College.
 Lord J. Manners  said, that as the House had decided to proceed with the Bill, it only remained for those who objected to such a measure to use their best endeavours for the purpose of making it as little objectionable as possible. They were called upon to consider and decide whether the proposition of the Government or the Amendment of the right hon. Member for Waterford ought to be preferred. For his part, he was decidedly adverse to leaving these appointments in the hands of a majority of that House. He drew a broad distinction between that which gave power to the Crown to be exercised by the Queen, and that which gave power to the Ministers, who, in effect, were appointed by a majority of the House of Commons.
 Mr. Lefroy  could not support the present proposition as a resting place for religion, without going further, and requiring the endowment of chaplains. If, however, Her Majesty's Government were to take a step in support of particular religious views, they would be opposed by many who now supported the measure as it stood.
 Mr. C. Buller  said, he had hailed with great delight the Bill as it was originally brought in by Her Majesty's Government; he thought it a wise policy to found a liberal system of education in Ireland; but every alteration that had been made in the Bill since its introduction had interfered with its original intention, and had deteriorated the measure. The defect of the plan was, that the Government did not complete it by founding a new University in Ireland. The value of a university education was that it gave degrees, which were useful in after life; and unless those degrees were given, they might depend on it these Colleges would fail to produce their proper effect. He did not support the proposition of the Government as one for giving that scholastic education proper for youths, but as part of a system of university education.
 1363 1364
 Mr. Ross  said, it was perfectly true that he denied the accuracy of the observations attributed to him; but there had been no retractation of what fell from the hon. Member for Cork, or of the attack made on him by the public press.
 Mr. Ross  wished to take that opportunity of denying the truth of a statement which had been made, to the effect that the Professor of Greek in the Belfast Institution had taken advantage of the position
 1350
 Mr. Ross  said, that the feelings of his constituents were divided upon this measure. Several respectable Roman Catholics signed a petition which he presented from Belfast in favour of the Bill; but he believed that the great body of the Roman Catholics followed in the train of their prelates. He had been denounced by she hon. and learned Member for Cork, because he was not, in the first place, a Repealer; and in the second place, because he said that the hon. and learned Gentleman did not represent the mass of the educated and middle classes in Ireland on the subject. He had stated that as his honest opinion, and for that he was denounced by the hon. and learned Gentleman, as the hon. and learned Gentleman was in the habit of denouncing others, in no very handsome terms. He might lose his seat in that House; but he was
 1373
 Mr. Shaw : The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Sheil), as well as the hon. Members who had preceded him, had referred to the fellowship examination in Trinity College, Dublin, as a precedent for opening the professorships under the present Bill to public competition. He (Mr. Shaw) entirely concurred in the value and excellence
 1387 l. l., l. 1388
 Mr. Shaw  said, he saw that the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had notice of another Amendment to Clause 12—the Endowment clause—proposing to add the word "chaplains" before the other officers endowed by that clause, that seemed to him (Mr. Shaw) intimately connected with the present Amendment. For if you put the halls in which the pupils were to reside, under the charge of the State, along with the Colleges themselves, and thus give the character of a domestic system to the institutions, domiciling the pupils there—then, indeed, it would be impossible to omit religious instruction as an essential part of the education to be imparted. And chaplains of the different persuasions must be appointed; that would open the whole question of endowment by the State of professors of creeds adverse to the Established religion, to which he (Mr. Shaw) had, throughout, objected; it would change the whole principle on which the Bill was founded; and to which—as the best that, under the difficult circumstances of Ireland, could be practically adopted — he (Mr. Shaw) had assented. He must, therefore, oppose the Amendment of the noble Lord.
 Sir H. W. Barron  moved the following Amendment:—
 "That previous to the first appointment of any rector, president, head of college, or professor under this Act, the Board of Education in Ireland shall have power to present three names to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland who must select one of the said persons to fill such office."
 Mr. Warburton  said, that of the three plans which had been proposed, he was decidedly of opinion that that adopted by the Government was the best, and he considered the plan of the noble Lord was the worst. The plan the Government proposed was to vest the appointment in the Crown. The noble Lord wished to give it to the professors in office when the vacancy occurred. He thought this latter plan most objectionable. Physiologists had laid it down that the breeding in and in of animals vitiated the race. And the account they gave of the cause was this—
 1384
 Mr. Roebuck  said, in answer to the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Dungarvon (Mr. Shell), that they could not expect to govern Ireland well, by positively creating any ill feeling
 1374 1375
 Mr. B. Osborne  thought it would be as well, before the right hon. Gentleman answered the question which had just been put to him, for the hon. Gentleman to state the particular parts of Ireland to which he referred. It would otherwise be unfair that such a statement should go forth to the public.
 Mr. Bellew  said, that under all the circumstances of the case, and considering the great importance of providing increased means of education, the Bill would be received in Ireland as the best plan of mixed education that could be brought into operation.
 Mr. Sheil  would take Trinity College as a perfect model, and would recommend it to the attention of Ministers on this occasion. In Trinity College the Crown appointed the Provost; the head was appointed by the Crown. What was the case with respect to the Fellows? That body, which was in the enjoyment of large emoluments and of elevated position, were not elected by the Crown, and they never had been. The benefits they conferred on the University and on the country were chiefly owing to the fair and impartial mode in which they were elected. During his whole collegiate career he had never heard the slightest breath of suspicion against one of their decisions. Their integrity was unimpeachable; but there was an efficient aid to its support—competition ensured purity. There were present, besides the examiners, many spectators during the time the trials were proceeding, and each of them was able to appreciate the accuracy or extent of the information displayed by the minor competitors. A race decided often by such narrow lengths provoked the keenest rivalry; and a proportionate confidence was reposed in the decisions of the judges. Why did not Government follow this example? All the objections which had been urged against
 1386
 Mr. Sheil  said, that a very important principle was involved in the Amendment of his noble Friend the Member for the city of London. The Government appeared to think that if they agreed to the Amendment of the noble Lord, and made the concessions which he required, they would thus abandon the ground which they had taken; whilst on the other hand, those who were anxious to make the Bill really useful, thought that such a concession was desirable. The Roman Catholic bishops of Ireland had unanimously repeated the statement of the views which they entertained upon this subject; and they had been supported by every Irish Roman Catholic Member—by every Irish Member at that side of the House. [Mr.  Ross: 1367 l. l. 1368
 Mr. Wyse  thought that the adoption of the Amendment would greatly facilitate the success of the measure, and at the same time would not alter the principle of it.
 Mr. Wyse  rose to explain. He mentioned Glasgow College as an instance of a collegiate body where the appointment of officers was vested in the governing body. He did not intend to cite it as an exemplification of what he had insisted on with regard to the three qualities in his opinion essential for a perfect mode of procedure.
 Mr. Wyse  moved as an Amendment—
 "That on any future vacancy occurring in the Professorships of the intended Colleges, such vacancy be filled up by such candidate as, after due public examination before competent examiners, hereafter to be appointed, shall be declared by them (being otherwise qualified by character and conduct) to be the most competent to discharge the duties of such Professorships." 1378
 Mr. Smith O'Brien  suggested that it would be better to withdraw the Amendment, and move it as a distinct proposition.
 Mr. W. Smith O'Brien  said, if he had thought there would have been any chance of success, he should have been prepared to submit a series of Resolutions before the Speaker left the chair; but he was so convinced that his labour would have been in vain, that he should best consult the convenience of the House by taking that opportunity of stating generally his objection to the Bill then under consideration. Ireland had presented a picture of misery which had no parallel in this or any other country, and yet another Session was permitted to pass without any effort for improving the material condition of the Irish people. He was not on that account, however, disposed to overlook the importance of providing for their mental improvement. He tendered the Government his sincere thanks for the progress which they had already made in this matter; but when it was said that 400,000 children had been provided with the means of education by the national schools, it must be remembered that there were from 1,020,000 to 1,050,000 who ought to be at school. With reference to the proposed Bill, his great complaint was, that there was no provision for religious education; and the Irish were essentially a religious people. A memorial from the Catholic prelates stated that they thought there ought to be a chaplain, with a suitable salary, in each of the Colleges, who should be recommended by the Roman Catholic bishop of the diocese, and should be removable by him. The Government were afraid to concede this point, inasmuch as they would have to encounter the outcry of the million and a half who had petitioned against Maynooth. The prelates also demanded for all Roman Catholic students protection from interference with their religious opinions; and it was natural that they should make such a demand, as there was not one Roman Catholic connected with any superior department of the Government in Ireland. The proportion of Catholics in the districts where the Colleges were to be established, as compared with Protestants, was nearly ten to one. The Roman Catholic prelates demanded that Roman Catholic tutors should be provided for instruction in history, logic, metaphysics, moral philosophy, geology,
 1351 1352 Senatus Academicus, ex-officio 1353
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  said, that he felt jealous of the interference, on the part of the clergy of any persuasion, with secular education. He was opposed to the clergy of his own Church doing so, and would never consent that the clergy of other denominations should have the power of interference. He would oppose the Amendment of the noble Lord.
 Sir Charles Lemon  asked the Vice-President of the Board of Trade whether it was the intention of the Government to bring forward, with a view to its enactment in the present Session, a Bill to prevent excessive dredging for oysters during the breeding season, by which practice, as had been abundantly proved, the oyster beds were often seriously injured, and might be entirely destroyed?
 Sir Charles Napier  was desirous of asking whether it was the intention this year to organize the coast-guard and fishermen along the coast, in the same manner as had been done in former days, in order that they might be ready to act in defence of our coasts in case of any sudden emergency? He looked upon this as a matter of great importance. We understood she hon. and gallant Officer to suggest, that in addition to the returns made by all the Government steamers, there should be obtained a statement of all the merchant steamers belonging to this country. He thought an arrangement might be easily made with the various steam companies, by which such information might be obtained.
 Sir E. Hayes  said, that he of course alluded to those parts of Ireland in which it was well known that frightful scenes had lately been enacted.
 Sir E. Hayes  rose, pursuant to notice, to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department what course the Government intended to pursue with reference to the system of outrage, intimidation, and murder now prevailing in some of the counties in Ireland. He wished to know whether the Government were under a conviction that the powers which the Executive now possessed were sufficient to put down the system of which he complained, and which had been allowed to go on for a considerable time in a large portion of that country, creating fear, dismay, and, he might almost add, despair in the hearts of the peaceable inhabitants. If any power existed which had not been exercised, he should
 1349
 Sir G. Clerk  said, it was not the intention of the Government to bring in any Bill on the subject at present. It was a matter of considerable importance, affecting the present and future supply of oysters, and it was well known that the practice which the hon. Baronet complained of prevailed. It was a question, however, whether the preventing the removal of oysters to other beds, where they increased in size, would not be prejudicial to the trade. On the whole, it was a subject worthy the consideration of the Government; and the hon. Baronet might be sure that attention would be given to it.
 Sir James Graham  having moved the Order of the Day for the House to go into Committee on the Colleges (Ireland) Bill,
 Sir J. Graham  said, the Government had viewed with the deepest anxiety and regret the spirit of insubordination and crime which existed in certain portions of Ireland—in Leitrim, Cavan, and adjacent counties. Every effort had been made, and would continue to be made, by the Government, according to law, to repress those outrages. A large increase to the military and police force had already been made, and placed at the disposal of the local authorities, in aid of the civil power. His hon. Friend was correct in stating that neither politics nor religion had had anything to do with this unhappy state of affairs. On the contrary, he had been assured that on Wednesday next, in the county of Cavan, there would be a county meeting of the laity and clergy, without distinction of political parties or religious sects, for the purpose of considering the best means to be adopted for repressing the outrages complained of according to law. He hoped that every effort would be made to put an end to this unhappy state of affairs. As yet, he did not despair that the existing law, aided by the united effort to which he had referred, would be sufficient for checking the evil. It was the resolution of the Government to exhaust every means now in their power for obtaining that end; and at present he was not prepared to announce any other intention on the part of the Government.
 Sir J. Graham  had hoped, after the full and ample discussion that had taken place on the principle of the Bill, and after the explanations which he had found it necessary to give on the subject on former occasions, especially as the hon. Gentleman had expressed himself favourable to the general objects of the Bill—that they would have been permitted to go into Committee upon
 1354 seriatim 1355
 Sir J. Graham  said, he could not consent to the proposal of the noble Lord, as he thought it to be decidedly at variance with the principle of the Bill.
 Sir J. Graham  said, before the discussion went further, he thought it right to answer the question addressed to the Government by the right hon. Member for Dungarvon (Mr. Sheil); and before he did so, he would assure the Committee that Her Majesty's Government did not tender the present measure, or any measure, as a panacea for the evils of Ireland. They were decidely of opinion with the noble Lord (Lord Bernard), that although it was a matter of the utmost importance to spread throughout Ireland, and give to all classes in that country the benefits of improved education, yet the peace of Ireland could only be secured by improving the physical condition of the people; if, indeed, by legislation it was possible to effect so difficult an object. But, to return to the question of the right hon. Gentleman. He thought it desirable, even in Committee, that they should, as far as possible, stick closely to the subject-matter in debate; but still he agreed with the right hon. Member for the University of Dublin, that the point about the halls, which they were then discussing, was necessarily and intimately connected with an ulterior Amendment intended to be proposed by the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), with respect to the appointment of chaplains, to which the right hon. Gentleman's (Mr. Sheil's) question more particularly adverted; and he agreed with the reasons assigned by the right hon. Member for the University, that if the State favoured the foundation of halls, and adopted the domestic system of education, as contradistinguished from the professorial system, the State could not fail to give their support to some scheme of religious education intimately connected with the domestic system. This question, therefore, of halls was immediately blended with the consideration of the question of the appointment of chaplains. Now the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Sheil) appealed to the Government, and asked them
 1370 1371 1372
 Sir J. Graham  said, that the noble Lord had made an unintentional mis-statement in saying that Trinity College was confined to Protestants. This was not so. The education of that College was open to the Roman Catholic gentry of Ireland. He disagreed with the argument of the noble Lord, because the principle of the Bill was, that all religious instruction should be voluntary; and though an alteration had been made in the Bill, any attendance on religious lectures was still to be voluntary.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that on grounds he had before stated, he could not, consistently with his sense of duty, consent to the hon. Baronet's Amendment. He believed a large majority of the Members of that House entertained the opinion that the Government ought to have the power of recommending to the Crown the persons they deemed most competent to fill the offices to which the hon. Baronet's Amendment referred. He concurred in the statement of the hon. Baronet (Sir W. Barron), that the Board of Education in
 1392
 Sir J. Graham  said, that on the part of the Government, he was bound to say that, in allusion to the hon. Member's statement, the Government did not ask for any confidence from the hon. and learned Gentleman. The hon. Gentleman stated, that the Government had appointed no Liberal to any situation, but that, on
 1382 concursus, 1383
 Sir R. Inglis  thought it unfair that in the present debate, without any notice, the hon. Member should have brought so many accusations against the two English Universities; but as there would be other opportunities of referring to that point, he should reserve himself till such time as he could give a detailed answer, which he was fully enabled to give, to the allegations of the hon. Member. In one respect, at least, the hon. Member had not profited by the experience which he might have gained; for he was desirous that the House should receive from him a statement, in 1845, of the state of Cambridge at the time he was a member, instead of referring to the state of the University at this time. In answer to the hon. Member's statement, and to the cheers of other hon. Members, he had no hesitation in stating that no improvement in society had been greater or even equal to that which had taken place in these Universities. He could only say that his hon. and learned Friend had been peculiarly favoured during his residence in Edinburgh; and that it was not one out of twenty young men who were so lodged during their academical residence in that city: he had always
 1365
 Sir R. Peel : The scheme originally proposed by the hon. Member for Waterford was to make the contributions of Government for religious instruction greatly dependent upon local assistance. The hon. Gentleman took, as the very basis of all such aid upon the part of the Government, the contributions which were to be raised
 1360 l.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that no University constitution could afford so effectual a guarantee for the moral education of the people as that which existed in the improved feeling of the people on such subjects, and the greater desire of parents and guardians to see to the moral and religious training of the younger persons under their care. This improved state of the public mind afforded a guarantee which did not exist thirty years ago. With regard to the University with which his hon. Friend (Sir R. Inglis) was connected, he believed it to be quite consistent with true friendship for that institution for him to state, that at the University of Oxford the expense of education was so great as materially to lessen the benefit that might be derived from it. He wished that some system could be adopted which would extend the advantages of academical education at the two Universities of Oxford and Cambridge to classes which were now excluded on account of the expense. He could not help adding that, in his opinion, the laxity of discipline which prevailed in some of the Colleges, constituted a great objection to the system of education at the Universities. With respect to the question immediately before the House, he must declare that he had such confidence in the solicitude of parents for the welfare of their children, that he could not doubt that they would make the most beneficial regulations for their religious instruction.
 Sir R. Peel  said: I think it desirable that we should treat each question separately, and that we should consider each proposition on its separate merits. I do not think it advisable that the argument of the right hon. Gentleman's propositions should be mixed up with that of the hon. Member for Limerick, or that of the noble Lord. It does not appear to me that there is any material difference, in point of principle, between the opinions of the Government and those of the right hon. Gentleman with respect to the particular points which he has urged. We do not dispute that it may be desirable to merge those Colleges into one, and to establish a University. I think that this is a question which we are not even called upon to discuss. I think that the question is premature. We agree in thinking that it is desirable that hereafter these Colleges shall be made into an University, and that that University shall, as of course, have the power of granting degrees. However, in whatever manner it may be advisable hereafter to appoint the professors, I think it advisable that, between the interval that must elapse between the establishment of those Colleges and the establishment of a University, it is desirable that the Crown should possess the power of appointment. But whilst the Government ask that, in the beginning, the Crown shall reserve to itself this power of appointment, there is nothing to deprive the Crown from getting the best assistance to enable them to decide upon the efficiency and suitableness of the persons to be appointed. Nothing is to prevent the Crown from availing itself of the best assistance, in taking the best means, to make the most useful appointments. Now, I agree with the right hon. Gentleman that the success of these
 1379 1380
 Sir Robert Peel  said, the matter was one which had not escaped the attention of the Government. He concurred in the opinion that the coast guard might be made an efficient force in case of necessity.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that provision had already been made both in the Ordnance and in the Navy Estimates, for both those objects during the present year. He could not exactly state the details; but with respect to the dockyards at Sheerness, at Portsmouth, and at other places, there had been, both in the Ordnance Estimates and in the Navy Estimates, sums voted, founded upon the Report of the Navy Commissioners appointed to inspect the dockyards. With respect to harbours of refuge, engineers had been employed at Dover and other ports along the coast; and (we understood the right hon. Baronet
 1395
 Viscount Bernard  was ready to admit the great wants of the lower orders in Ireland, but they did not want University education; they wanted industrial education. The lower orders in that country required to be taught the most improved modes of farming, and the manner in which the science of geology might be made available to practical agriculture. He was convinced that education ought to be based on religion, and religion on the sacred Scriptures, for no other would be of real advantage. He was in favour of the Amendment of which notice had been given by the hon. Member for Devonshire; and he thought that it ought to be extended to Colleges, and that no education ought to be given which was not founded on true religion. Whatever religious concessions were made with respect to Ireland, must stand or fall by their own merits. If they were bad, let them be rejected, and if they were good let them be approved; but let it not
 1369
 Viscount Ebrington  was not willing to place any unnecessary confidence in the Government on a question of this kind. He thought that it was most desirable that the House of Commons should strictly limit their appointment to those situations. Let the House remember the course the present Government had pursued with respect to the appointments in the Church in Ireland. They had appointed to bishoprics in Ireland some of those who had shown the most decided enmity to the national system of education. He could place no confidence in the Government with respect to this matter; and thought that their power of making those appointments ought to be restricted.
 Viscount Palmerston  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet whether it was his intention in the course of the present Session to propose a vote on account of providing for the better defence of our dockyards, and with a view to the formation of harbours of refuge? It was perfectly well known that the dockyards were not defensible against any attack made by surprise by a force embarked in steamers. The improvements in steam navigation and the multiplication of steam vessels, had entirely altered the nature of attacks against any defences that might be provided. This appeared to him to be a question of most urgent importance; and he wished to know whether the right hon. Baronet meant to allow the Session to pass by without establishing a better system of defence for our dockyards, and also making provision for harbours of refuge?
 Viscount Palmerston  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet, or the hon. and gallant Officer connected with the Board of Ordnance, what progress had been made in manufacturing muskets for the army upon the percussion principle? When the late Lord Vivian was Master of the Board of Ordnance, he took infinite pains to ascertain the best kind of musket for the use of the British army; and that manufactured on the percussion principle was considered the best, and it was determined that the whole army should be
 1394
 Captain Berkeley  replied: His argument was, that the Admiralty should have the power of protecting the public, and individuals also; and he would give the House an illustration. Supposing an individual had a right to a ferry over a navigable river, and that a projected bridge would destroy his interests, as well as the navigation of that river. He was too poor to prosecute an opposition before that House, but he memorialised the Board of Admiralty, and they took measures for that purpose. He should take the sense of the House on the subject.
 Captain Berkeley  moved—
 1398 "That the Resolution—'That no private Bill for the construction of Railways, or other Public Works, to which the consent of the Admiralty is required, will be committed, until the decision of the Admiralty shall be communicated to the House,' be made a Standing Order."
 Mr. Williams  would vote for the Motion, and if it were lost, he hoped the subject would not be lost sight of by the Government.
 Mr. Sidney Herbert  would not trouble the House at any great length, while he stated the reasons why he could not accede to the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member. He would state the reasons both for and against unlimited enlistment in the briefest possible manner, and then leave the House to decide on which side the weight of argument preponderated, and whether sufficient grounds had been shown for taking the imposing step which was advocated by the hon. and gallant Officer. The hon. and gallant Gentleman relied on the authority of Mr. Fox to show that enlistment for life was not consistent with the spirit of the Constitution; but he (Mr. S. Herbert) believed that objection applied rather to other countries, where enlistment was compulsory, under the conscription system. With that condition, enlistment for life would certainly be contrary to the spirit of our Constitution; but it should not be forgotten that here it was the voluntary act of the individual who enlisted. The gallant Officer stated, as another objection to enlistment for life, that it tended to disseminate immorality; but the same complaint was made against the conscription in France, where young men were taken away for the army at eighteen years of age—the very period when their habits of life were to be formed, and when their character was most pliable, and they would be otherwise preparing to embrace the various professions to which their after-life should be devoted. But it should not be forgotten that the system for which the gallant Officer contended, had already had a trial in England. Enlistment for a limited period was provided for under Wyndham's Act; but the military authorities of the day found it to work so badly that they induced the Government to modify, and afterwards to repeal the measure altogether. The result of the trial under the limited service system proved that there was not that value attached to it by the private soldier which the gallant Officer had alleged. In 1821, when enlistment both for limited and unlimited service went on  pari passu, 1407 1408 1409
 Lord G. Somerset  thought the House ought not to agree to this proposition, because it was, in fact, asking the House to suspend its proceedings until a Government Board gave its opinion on the railway schemes brought before it. This was the most extraordinary proposition he had ever heard. Certainly the Committees had the means of arriving at a more correct estimate of the value of the Bills before them than the Board of Admiralty could possibly have. He was quite opposed to the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member.
 Captain Layard  rose to move—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to direct inquiry to be made how far the reduction of the period of service in the Army, from the present unlimited term to ten years, would tend to procure a better class of recruits, diminish desertion, and thus add to the efficiency of the Service." 1399 1400 "E. Pigott was enlisted in the East India Company's service; he was transferred to Cork, where self-made ulcers appeared on his legs, and when this scheme failed in procuring his discharge, he seemed to become an idiot. In September he arrived in Chatham, when he had the aspect of a genuine idiot. He was placed under observation for five weeks, during which period he never uttered a word distinctly. His looks were wild, his manners almost savage. He appeared to have lost all regard to decency, and became perfectly helpless; for he required to be washed and dressed like a child. He refused to take food when offered him; but, if it was set by him, he devoured it clandestinely, and occasionally would neglect it for a whole day. He was at first treated with great kindness; but, after some time, he became ferocious, and endeavoured to bite the orderlies, and used missiles, so that it was deemed necessary to confine him in a strait waistcoat. On the 3rd November he was examined by a board of medical officers, who stated that in their opinion Pigott was a
 1401 United Service Gazette 1402 s. 1403 
 
 Period. Cavalry. Infantry. 
 Under 7 years' service £. £. 
 30 20 
 After 7 years' service 25 18 
 After 10 years' service 21 15 
 After 12 years' service 15 10 
 After 14 years' service 12 5 
 After 15 years' service 6 Free discharge at home, and in addition, three months' pay abroad. 
 After 16 years' service Free discharge Free discharge, and, in addition, three months' pay at home, and six abroad 
 After 17 years' service Free discharge, and 3 months' pay Free discharge, and six months' pay at home, and one year's pay abroad 
 After 18 years' service Free discharge, 6 months' pay Free discharge, one year's pay at home, and one-and-a-half abroad. 
 After 21 years' service "Nothing can be worse than the materials of which the Army is composed, I do not mean that they are all bad men, but a great portion are taken from the worst ranks; they enlist from necessity alone." "Do you think if the soldier was enlisted for a more limited period it would tend to promote recruiting?—Yes, I found men who enlisted for limited service the best men, and I was always anxious for them to re-enlist—they came from a better class of society." "If giving commissions to privates would improve the description of recruit?" said, "All improvements in the service would facilitate recruiting. We should get a better description of men." 1404 1405 the Formation, Discipline, and Economy of Armies." "Limited service has a tendency to augment the defensive strength of a country, and perhaps to improve economical and moral habits among the people. Unlimited service, which adds little to the defence of a country, has a tendency to dissipate national sympathies, and corrupt moral character; for as it separates the soldier from the mass of the people, it alienates him from the interests of his own country, and thereby commits him to the will of a military commander as his lord and master for life." "He (Sir Henry Hardinge) had, in 1839, introduced a system of allowing soldiers to obtain their discharge at a price in proportion to their length of service; and although it was feared by many officers that the plan would very much disturb the regiments of the line, it was found to operate most beneficially. Speaking from the experience of the last ten years, he (Sir Henry Hardinge) must confess that he agreed with the gallant Officer (Captain Layard), that perhaps a shorter period of service might be advantageously introduced; the question was deserving the consideration of Her Majesty's Government." 1406
 Captain Layard  thought no answer had been made to the case he had laid before the House. Sir Henry Hardinge, an authority on military matters equal to any in or out of the House, had emphatically declared the subject to be one calling for the serious consideration of Government. There could be no doubt that the practice of enlisting men at the age of eighteen led to a vast extent of mortality in our army. If he followed his own inclination, he should divide the House; but as hon Gentlemen seemed averse to his doing so, he would bow to their wish.
 Mr. Warburton  did not see why the House should be precluded from going into the evidence on any railway project until they had received the consent of the Board of Admiralty.
 Mr. Hume  thought that there was much more involved in the Motion of the gallant Officer than the right hon. Gentleman seemed to consider. He had asked for Returns respecting the desertions in regiments on foreign service; but he had been unable to procure them. He believed that most of them occurred in consequence of the regiments being ordered to India, Ceylon, and other tropical climates. He thought that a soldier should be allowed to demand his discharge at the end often years; and if this were done it would be beneficial to the character of
 1410
 Mr. M. Milnes  rose "to call the attention of the House to the evils attendant on the present mode of conducting the public execution of criminals." He said, that his object was to give the Judges authority to appoint
 1413 1414
 Sir Howard Douglas  said, he concurred with his right hon. Friend the Secretary at War, that a case had not been made out for reverting to the practice of enlistment for a limited period. This was rendered unnecessary by the provisions of the warrant of 1829, which enabled soldiers to purchase their discharges for sums varying from 20 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1411 l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.; l. l. l. l. l. l. l. d. d. 1412
 Mr. Cowper  was willing to abandon the 19th Clause, on the intimation which he had received from the right hon. Gentleman. The object of the Bill was to provide allotments of ground for labouring men to cultivate as small gardens, so that they might have the benefit to be derived from such cultivation. The hon. Member for Manchester had designated the Bill as rather romantic than practicable. No doubt the measure was a mere romance to him; but it was not so to the poor man. In many parts of Leicestershire and Northamptonshire the poor were in the habit of employing their leisure time in cultivating gardens, and such a measure would be of vast benefit to them. He believed that all persons who were practically acquainted with the subject were in favour of garden allotments. Although it might be true, as had been stated by the hon. Member, that the Poor Law Commissioners were opposed to the measure, still it was a fact, that all who ware really acquainted with the allotment system and with political economy were in favour of it. The tendency of the Bill, so far from depressing wages, went to raise them; because, by giving the labourer the possession of a little property under his own control, it would make him more independent of his employer.
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  said, that there was no subject with respect to which the testimony was so conclusive as the success of the scheme. Wherever the plan had had been adopted, it had been successful, not merely as regarded the physical, but also the moral condition of the labourers.
 Mr. W. Cowper  denied that the effects of the measure were such as had been described by the hon. and learned Member for Bath; on the contrary, all experience showed that the result of the system, wherever it was adopted, was to ameliorate the condition of the labouring classes; and its tendency, so far from lowering wages, was to increase them. Complaints had been made that there was a compulsory interference with the landowners; now it was notorious that in many parts of the country the labourers were most anxious to obtain allotments of land, but they could not get them from the landowners; therefore, the voluntary system in such districts would be perfectly inoperative. It should be recollected that this was not to be a gift on the part of the landlord, but the full value was to be paid for the land.
 Mr. Cowper  objected to the Amendment.
 Mr. Collett  objected to the officiating minister being appointed in that capacity, and moved that the words "officiating minister" be omitted.
 Mr. Cowper  resisted the omission, and the Committee divided on the Question, that the words stand part of the clause:—Ayes 37; Noes 7: Majority 30.
 Mr. Cowper  said, that in parishes where it was wanted, the Bill would be put in force. Where it was not wanted, it would not be enforced.
 Lord Ashley  did not expect to have been called upon to enter into the subject on moving a dropped order. The whole discussion could be taken on the clauses. The hon. Member for Finsbury had spoken of the measure having been hurried on with indecent haste. He did not see how such a charge could be made, inasmuch as the measure had been introduced on the sixth of the last month, and the subject had been discussed at various times during the last three years. If the hon. Member would allow him to go into Committee, he would undertake to satisfy him of the propriety of the grant being made. The Bills had been submitted to, and had received the sanction of, the Government and the Poor Law Commissioners; and as both the the principle and details of the measure could be discussed fully hereafter, he hoped the hon. Gentleman would not press his opposition in the present stage, but allow him to go into Committee, when he had no doubt he should be able to dispel all his objections to the measure. He hoped he would consent to such a course out of kindness to the unfortunate individuals for whose accommodation the provisions of the Bill were intended.
 Lord Ashley  moved the bringing up of the Report of the Committee on the Lunacy Salaries and Expenses.
 Mr. Escott  said, all the advantages of the allotment system on which the hon. Member who had just sat down, had spoken, were those which existed without the interference of the present Bill, and which he believed the Bill would tend to destroy. He objected to allotments, being made a parish system, and part of the parish payment to the poor. The moment they established a parochial Board to distribute these allotments, it would become a mere parish proceeding, and nothing else. His object in rising was to state, that he thought the proper course to take would be to endeavour to improve the Bill as much as possible in Committee, and then to divide upon the third reading. He would, therefore, advise the hon. and learned Member to withdraw his Amendment.
 Mr. Newdegate  rather concurred with the hon. Member for Rochdale, who wished to give the labourer some degree of independence, than with those who desired to keep him in a condition of entire subservience.
 Mr. Divett  had a petition to present, which required the immediate attention of the House. It was from Mr. Parrott, the late Member for Totness, and stated that in the course of last year he had been summoned before a Committee on medical relief to the poor, of which the noble Lord the Member for Dorsetshire was chairman, to give evidence of transactions which had taken place in the Union of which he was chairman; that he attended and gave such evidence; and that very recently he had received a communication, stating, that he was about to have an action brought against him for giving his evidence on that occasion. He had, however, taken no notice of it, and further proceedings had been adopted, a declaration having been filed on the 26th of last month, to which he had eight days to plead. He further stated, that he had not said anything against the individual who had brought the action in any other place than before such Committee. The declaration stated, that he had been guilty of giving false evidence and libelling the individual referred to: this the petitioner denied, and from inquiries which he (Mr. Divett) had made, he believed that the evidence of Mr. Parrott was in strict accordance with the truth. The petitioner prayed, that the House would take the matter into its consideration, and grant him protection against the said action. If the House was not prepared to shield
 1418
 Mr. Darby  denied the correctness of the statement of the hon. and learned Member for Bath, that most of those persons to whom a few years ago allotments were made ultimately took refuge in the poor-house. He had the authority of the late Mrs. Gilbert, who had carried out this system so extensively, to state that the plan had been entirely successful, and that hardly a case ever occurred in which a person having an allotment was taken before a magistrate on any ground of complaint. He was convinced from his own observation that the plan had been productive of much good, and had bettered the condition of the labouring classes. He, however, preferred having a volun-
 1425
 Mr. Darby  said, that there were some clauses of the Bill which must undergo
 1417
 Mr. Curteis  objected to the 1st Clause, which empowered three ratepayers of any parish to call a meeting on the subject of the allotment of land for gardens; he thought the number ought at least to be six.
 Mr. Bright  felt bound to give his vote to the Amendment of the hon. Member for Bath, as he was satisfied that the effect of the Bill would be to increase the dependence of the labourers, and therefore add to the mass of pauperism in the country districts. Attaching small gardens to the cottages of agricultural labourers was desirable; but the present measure was intended to afford aid to persons in a state of distress. He had no objection to giving relief, but let it be given under that name.
 Mr. Bright  said, that the voluntary system of arrangement would do all the good which was expected to accrue from the allottment system, without doing any of the evils which he thought that system would introduce, He did not see how the hon. Member for Hertford could persevere with this Bill, and try to carry it through a third reading. It could not, by any possibility, be put into action; and if it passed the House, it would to all intents and purposes fall as dead as if it had been thrown out upon the third reading.
 Mr. Manners Sutton  said, it was obvious that they could not discuss the merits of the measure in its present stage.
 Mr. Roebuck  understood that the Government entertained some objections to the Bill, on account of its interfering in some measure with the Poor Law. He wished, therefore, to know whether the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department was prepared to give his sanction to it?
 Mr. Roebuck  said, he should beg to move at once that the Chairman do report progress, and ask leave to sit again. There was no denying the fact, that the working man in England was maintained by wages; and they had the example of a neighbouring country, Ireland, where the
 1420 l.
 Mr. Roebuck  wished to know on what ground the hon. Member charged him with being desirous to make slaves of the poor men, or what act of his life could allow such a construction to be put upon his conduct? He was merely anxious to save the people of England from being reduced to the position to which the Irish poor had been brought by the cottier farm system.
 Mr. Trelawny  should support the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Bath, as it was an unnecessary interference with labour. The hon. Member for Hertford said, that the effect of this measure would be to raise wages. Now, he was satisfied that it would have the effect of lowering them.
 Mr. Henley  thought that the Bill held out expectations to the labouring classes which it was certain never could be realized. He should support the Amendment.
 Mr. Henley  moved, that the qualification of the wardens should be their being rated to the poor 10 l.
 Mr. R. Vernon Smith  thought it would be better to defer all discussion of the principle of the Bill until they were in Committee.
 Mr. Mangles  expressed his perfect readiness to meet the case on which the hon. and learned Member for Bath rested his argument. He did not know on what ground the hon. and learned Member should lay down as a principle that the labouring man should live by his wages, when it was well known to all who were conversant with the subject, that, in the agricultural districts, the labourers were unable to get wages. He did not state whether the facts which he mentioned supported the views of the hon. Member near him (Mr. Cowper), or of the hon. and learned Member for Bath; but he stated what he knew of his own knowledge to be the case. It was only last Sunday fortnight that he met one of the best labouring men of his own parish, who told him that he had been unable to get a single day's work in the preceding week. The hon. and learned Member could look out of his window in some of the fashionable squares, and tell the poor that they should live on their wages; but would he tell them, at the same time, how they were to get any wages? The hon. and learned Gentleman only showed how little he knew of the state of the agricultural districts when he put forward such arguments. He would undertake to show, in opposition to the statement of the hon. and learned Gentleman, that one of the greatest evils of the present condition of the agricultural labourers, was the utter hopelesness, as a general rule, of their raising themselves in their position. He was convinced that there might be fifty shopkeepers' apprentices, or fifty
 1422
 Mr. T. Duncombe  wished the Bill to be postponed until next Session, in order that an inquiry might be made as to the manner in which the Commissioners had discharged their duty. He had a duty to perform to the unfortunate creatures who were the objects of this Bill, and he was determined to persevere in his Motion of postponement. He would divide the House on every stage, if the noble Lord persisted in pressing on the Bill this Session.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  objected strongly, and complained that the whole affair bore the appearance of a job, by which certain Commissioners were to be rewarded with salaries of 1,500 l. 1415 "The Board of the Metropolitan Commissioners in Lunacy is, in practice, contrary (as your petitioner believes) to the intentions of and without the real knowledge of Parliament—a closed and secret court, where persons confined in asylums, without the knowledge of the charges brought against them, and without even any one specific charge amounting to a proof of insanity, have their cases inquired into behind their backs, without notice being given to them of the day on which such inquiry is to take place; without the power of being present by attorney, or of sending a friend to watch the proceedings, without any knowledge of the evidence produced against them; and consequently without power to cross-examine, refute, or answer the same. That the delays necessary to such a course of proceedings are very great, but that they are cruelly aggravated by the long intervals of time that elapse between each inquiry. "The present Bill tends to continue and to sanction this system, which is foreign to and hateful to the Constitution of these realms, and furthermore tends to erect another Committee with their Commission, still more secret, for the inquiry into the cases of persons confined as of unsound mind in private houses." pro formâ 1416
 Mr. M. Gibson  thought the Bill ought not to be allowed to pass the present stage as a matter of form. It was said they might agree to every stage excepting the last, as they had the power of rejecting the measures then; but he did not think that hon. Gentlemen, who objected to give money to the Commissioners, could agree to the grant of the power to the Commissioners.
 Mr. M. Gibson  looked upon this Bill as a species of romance—there was nothing sound or real about it. It was not calculated to do good. The opinion of the ablest men in the country, including the Poor Law Commissioners and other public officers, was opposed both to the principle and details of the measure; and it was trifling with the time of the House to proceed with it any further, unless there was a  bonâ fide
 Mr. Milner Gibson  hoped that the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government would assist the Committee with his advice upon this Bill. The right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary had lent every assistance in his power. The Bill before them he (Mr. M. Gibson) had every reason to believe was opposed by the Poor Law Commissioners. They would do but little good to the poor by the allotment system. The right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) was not present at the early part of the night's proceedings, and the legislation of the Committee had partaken of a romantic and sentimental character, and his advice would be very seasonable. He did not think the right hon. Baronet would consent to the introduction into this country of a system which would reduce the labouring people of this country to a condition similar to that of a large portion of the Irish population. Let the right hon. Baronet give his advice now, and not by his silence, perhaps, hold out expectations to the hon. Member for Hertford (Mr. Cowper), which expectations might, after all, never be realized.
 Mr. Wakley  said, he would support the original proposition.
 Mr. Wakley  thanked the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department for the manner in which he had assisted in this matter. The hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) made an appeal to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, and he had got his answer, and he hoped the hon. Gentleman was satisfied. He hoped also that
 1428
 Mr. S. Crawford  explained. He did not intend to make any charge against the hon. and learned Member, but had merely stated what he believed to be the necessary effect of the policy which the hon. and learned Gentleman advocated.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  thought the hon. Member (Mr. Cowper) had been very unfairly treated in having his Bill allowed to advance to the present stage without these objections being urged against it. He believed that the House would make a move in the right direction in giving the labourer some other means of subsistence, and not leave him entirely dependent on wages. He did not understand what the hon. and learned Member for Bath meant by reprobating the idea of a poor man being his own master; but certainly the course which the hon. and learned Gentleman advocated would go, in his mind, to make the labourer a slave. He objected to the Bill as not going far enough, because it limited the quantity of land to be given to the poor man. He considered the granting of half an acre of land to a labouring man as a beneficial course; but he
 1421
 Mr. Stansfield  thought that the whole success of the scheme depended upon its being voluntary. He approved of the principle of allotting garden fields; but it was most objectionable to adopt a system of enforced charity.
 Mr. F. T. Baring  hoped his hon. Friend would not press his opposition to a division; but would allow the Report to be brought up. Such a course would not bind the House to any decision on the subject. He hoped his hon. Friend would not stand on a point of form.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that the hon. Member who had brought in the Bill had substituted the highway rate instead of the poor rate, which removed the objections of the Government. The hon. and learned Gentleman was probably aware that since the last discussion on this Bill it had been re-committed, and all the clauses relating to the Poor Law had been withdrawn. To the 19th Clause he had several objections; but he had reason to believe that the hon. Gentleman who had introduced the Bill, was willing to consent to the omission of that clause. If he did consent to its omission, then his (Sir J. Graham's) insuperable objections to the measure would be removed. His mind, however, was undecided as to the
 1419
 Sir James Graham  agreed with his hon. and learned Friend who had just sat down, that they ought to proceed in Committee upon the Bill. It was a matter of serious importance, and one for the fullest deliberation, whether the measure now
 1423 1424
 Sir R. Peel  thought, that it would be premature for him to discuss, now that the Bill was in Committee, whether or not it was desirable that it should finally pass into a law. He had consented to the Bill going into Committee, under the impression that the views of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper) were pure and benevolent in undertaking to bring in a Bil which he thought would conduce to the welfare and comfort of the labouring classes; and these views entitled the Bill to a favourable consideration, in order to ascertain whether it could not be brought into a shape which would make it consonant with the public interests. He (Sir R. Peel) was not prepared to apply to the rural population of this country those
 1427
 Lord Clements  objected to the Bill. He considered that the adoption of the system of conacre in Ireland had been productive of a great portion of the distress which unhappily prevailed in that country.
 Mr. Oswald  moved, as an Amendment, "That the House do resolve itself into the
 1443 l. l. l. d. 1444
 Mr. Ellice  said, it was a very serious matter for the House to determine whether, after the Report of the Commissioners who had been sent to inquire into this subject last year, it was possible for them to remain in the position in which they were, or to leave the poor of Scotland any longer subject to the kind of assistance which was now afforded them. But if he was not prepared to go the entire length with his hon. Friend who had brought forward the proposition before the House, he was, on reflection, equally unprepared to support the principle of the measure brought forward by Her Majesty's Government. It appeared to him that the Report of the Commission appointed last year made it indispensable for the Government to bring forward some measure, both for amending the law as it at present stood with respect to the poor of Scotland, and also for taking some steps to fortify the powers that at present exist for their relief, or to supply others if these powers were found to be inapplicable. The Bill, however, which they had brought in was deficient, as a remedy for the condition of the poor. It left many matters connected with the law as undecided as they were before the hon. Member opposite brought forward his proposition; and it, at the same time, afforded no assurance to the poor of Scotland that sufficient means would be afforded of ensuring them relief in an efficient and charitable way. It appeared to him that the proper course to be taken on this occasion towards any final settle-
 1445 1446 1447
 Mr. E. Ellice , jun. said, that as the Bill, since its committal, had been extensively altered, he wished to say a few words in reference to its general merits. He was the more anxious to do so because he had before expressed certain opinions with regard to an extensive practice in Scotland, which were controverted, and which had been supposed to press particularly on certain parties. He had stated that he believed that a great deal of the distress, which existed in the Highland districts, arose from occasional causes, but that much also arose from causes which might by good and prudent legislation be removed. He had observed that one of the greatest evils and curses under which the country had laboured, was what was called the clearance system; and he still entertained the opinion that such was the fact. Having made that statement, he declined to say that anyone individual had adopted the system more than another. It had prevailed generally over the whole of the north of Scotland. The statements made in one of the daily journals, putting aside the deductions drawn from them, he knew to be, generally speaking, statements of facts; he referred
 1464 1465
 Mr. D. Dundus  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, had referred in terms of disapprobation to the defence which his hon. Friend (Mr. Loch) had made as to the county with which he was connected, and of the proceedings which were placed—and honourably placed—in his hands. He did not think that he ought to entertain any doubt whetever that that defence—that generous defence—of his hon. and learned Friend had been satisfactory to all the just and generous Members of the House; and, although the hon. and learned Gentleman, with some notion of taste and good feeling which he (Mr. Dundas) could not appreciate, had introduced the names of ladies connected with the county of Sutherland—[Mr.  Escott: Escott: Escott 1470 1471 s. d. s. s. s. s. 1472 1473 1474
 Mr. E. Ellice , junr., said, that in the English Act he found that medical aid made a most necessary part of the relief given to the poor; and it would be a perfect mockery of relief, if the same thing were not done with regard to this Bill. He should therefore move, as an Amendment, that the following words be inserted at the end of the 1st Clause:—
 "Aud the words 'relief,' 'support,' and 'maintenance,' shall be held to include necessary medical aid."
 Mr. E. Ellice  wished it to be remembered, that the suggestion which he made was founded upon the Report of the
 1477
 Mr. Gladstone  wished for a more authoritative statement of the existing law of Scotland, as regarded the relief of the poor, than they had yet heard. He should be glad to know whether general relief included medical relief?
 Mr. F. Maule  considered it to be physically impossible that a medical man could successfully undertake the care of a district thirty miles in extent. The country should certainly be divided into districts; but the space which a medical man could take under his charge in one part of the country might be much greater than he could venture upon in another.
 Mr. F. Maule  would vote with the hon. Member for Glasgow. He thought if they delayed the Bill for another Session, they might arrive at a better measure. He hoped the object of the Bill was to make the assessment compulsory all over the country; but while they did that they must not leave, the indefinite term, "means and substance," as the basis of it; it would give rise to a flood of litigation. In Glasgow, and Edinburgh, and other towns, large meetings were being held, headed by no uninfluential men, to form associations for the protection of the poor. When he (Mr. F. Maule) was applied to to join them, he said he could belong to no association of the kind, because he thought the best association for the protection of the poor was the Legislature of the country. If they passed this Bill in its present shape, and made it more difficult for the poor to obtain access to the legal authority when they considered themselves aggrieved, these associations would startup in all the great towns, working on a central system, with an effect exceedingly detrimental to the good government, peace, and tranquillity of the country.
 Mr. F. Maule  said, that the law did not include medical in general relief.
 Mr. F. Maule  moved as an Amendment—
 "That the words, commencing line 37, 'And the Kirk Session of each parish shall nominate not exceeding four members of such Kirk Session to be members of the parochial board,' be omitted."
 Mr. Francis Scott , thought they had better reserve all discussion on the point involved in the 73rd Clause until that clause came under consideration. It was preposterous to suppose that any invidious distinction was intended with regard to Ireland and Irishmen; there was no ground whatever for such a supposition.
By  Mr. James S. Wortley : I received a communication made on the part of the plaintiff before this action was commenced, but it had no reference at all to an action. I have never received any demand for reparation. I was not aware for what the action was brought until I received the declaration.—Witness withdrew.
 Mr. Escott  said, the real question was, whether this Bill was calculated to remedy the admitted evils attending the present state of the poor in Scotland? It appeared to him that it was not; on the contrary, the old law was much better, if it were properly administered, and what they really wanted was a short Act giving force to its provisions. There was a clear case, as it seemed to him, for delaying the further progress of the measure, in order to give the Scotch Members time
 1468 1469
Examined by  Mr. Speaker : I am a solicitor; I am agent for Jasper Parrott, Esq. I have not the declaration with me in the action "Phillips  v.
 The Lord Advocate  moved, that the House do resolve itself into Committee on the Poor Law Amendment (Scotland) Bill.
 The Lord Advocate  hoped the Bill would be allowed to go into Committee; the Bill was brought forward in the first week of May, and he did not believe there was a parish in Scotland unacquainted with its details. There were certain principles involved in the measure from which he could not depart; but he was ready to receive any suggestions for the improvement of the details.
 The Lord Advocate  had no objection to allow the boards to take the question of medical relief into consideration whenever they were called on by a parish so to do.
 The Lord Advocate  thought the 6th Clause would provide for all that was requisite as to medical relief. As he understood the proposition of the hon. Gentleman, it would be obligatory on the parishes to give medical relief; but that would be impossible, unless they had a paid medical officer.
The Motion of  Mr. Divett  withdrawn; and on the Motion of the same hon. Member, it was ordered that Mr. Augustus Henry Moore do attend the House forthwith.
By  Mr. Divett : I can obtain from a Judge an order for time to plead, at all events for four or five days; but I shall be placed under terms to take short notice of trial. The commission-day is the 19th. The names endorsed on the declaration are "Keddell, Baker, and Grant, 34, Lime-street, agents for Edwards and Bryan, Totness, the plaintiff's attorneys."
 Mr. Divett  said, that Mr. Parrott might, by a summons before a Judge, obtain a short additional time to plead.
 Mr. Divett  said, that it was with great reluctance he took upon himself a duty which he was aware would have been more properly confided to hon. Members more conversant with subjects of this nature; but he had taken it up with the earnest and natural desire of protecting his friend from the injury which he would otherwise sustain for having given evidence before a Committee of that House. In the discharge of the duty thus undertaken, he had moved that the petition of Mr. Parrott be printed with the Votes. It was now in the hands of Members; and he trusted that, after its perusal, they had all come to the same conclusion to which he had arrived, namely, that all the parties who had taken any share in the proceedings against Mr. Parrott, were guilty of a gross breach of the privileges of that House. He believed, though it was necessary to act with caution, they must act also promptly, and they ought to take care that individuals were not unnecessarily harassed by matters arising out of proceedings before that House. Mr. Parrott had been summoned by the noble Lord to give evidence before the Medical Relief Committee; and, from all the inquiries he (Mr. Divett) had made, there was no doubt of the truth of that evidence. But it was not for the House at that moment to comment on the evidence: what they had then to determine was, whether it was in the power of any individual to prosecute a person for evidence given before that House. If there were no truth in the evidence, it would be for him to come before the House as a right tribunal to obtain redress; and if any individual should state that any proceedings there had been injurious to him, he for one, was ready to give every redress. There was a precedent for the course he was about to recommend to be found in the time of William III., long before the Election Act passed, where an action was brought against two individuals by Sir George Meggott, for evidence given before the
 1437 "A complaint being made to the House, that Sir G. Meggott had prosecuted at law several persons for what they testified the last Session at the Committee of Privileges and Elections, upon the hearing of the matter touching the election for the borough of Southwark, it was, on the 23rd of November, 1696, ordered that it be referred to the Committee of Privileges and Elections to examine the matter of the said complaint, and to report the same with their opinion thereon to the House; and on the 4th of December, Colonel Wharton reported from the Committee of Privileges and Elections, that to prove the complaint, was produced Mr. J. Huggins, an attorney, who said, he was employed to appear for Mr. Malyn and Mr. Ladd, at the suit of Sir G. Meggott, Mr. Lake, the attorney, having taken a writ out against them; and accordingly he did appear, and received a declaration severally against either of them, copies of which were produced to the Committee; and in those declarations it is taken notice, that Anthony Bowyer, Esq., and Charles Cox, gentleman, were returned to serve in Parliament for the said borough; that he, the said Sir G, Meggott, thought himself aggrieved by the said return, and petitioned the House of Commons for relief in the said matter; that the said petition was referred to the Committee of Elections, at which Committee the said Malyn and Ladd did falsely and maliciously say and affirm, that Sir G. Meggott did say, 'if it cost him 500 l. l. l. l. l. s. 1438 l., l., l. 1439 "That Frederick Keddell, Thomas Baker, and Joseph Humphry Grant, of Lime Street, in the city of London, attorneys, do attend this House to-morrow."
 Mr. Divett  observed, that the parties who were agents of the country attorneys were resident in London, and might be proceeded against directly. Mr. Parrott was then in attendance to give any evidence that might be required; and, as the time for pleading would expire to-morrow, the House was at least bound to guide him in the steps he should take.
 Mr. Warburton  thought the advice of the right hon. Gentleman the best that could be given. He agreed that the first person necessary was Mr. Parrott's attorney, to deliver in the declaration, and it was important also they should see that Mr. Parrott came before them with clean hands; and he declared in his petition that "he had never, upon any occasion, except that of giving his evidence before the said Committee, as aforesaid, spoken or published the words charged against him in the said declaration, or any words to the same or the like effect." And it was possible that the parties might know of this evidence independently of the Report of the Committee, or any information from any officer of the House. Mr. Parrott, it would be remembered, had come forward on the defensive, to justify the appointment of a medical officer, made by the board of guardians. The first thing, how-
 1442
 Mr. Loch  was understood to say, that it was with considerable embarrassment he proceeded to address the House; but having followed the hon. Gentleman on a former occasion, when he made statements of a similar nature, he felt it to be his duty, as it was in his power, to give them that contradiction which he now repeated. The view taken by the hon. Gentleman related to the Poor Law in general, and particularly to its administration in the county of Sutherland. No person was more aware of the defects of the Poor Law in Scotland than he was. No person was more anxious to improve the condition of the poor, and no one would give a more hearty support to the measure of the Lord Advocate, as he thought that the law could not remain in the state in which it now was. Having stated this, he would proceed to discuss the points which the hon. Gentleman had restated. The hon. Gentleman had again said, that the relief given by the Duke of Sutherland in several parishes was limited to the amount of 6 l. 1456 " Dornoch, s. s. s. " Creech, " Golspie, " Rogart, 1457 " Lairg, " Tongue, l. s. d.; l. s. d. l. l., l. 1458 l.,
 Colonel Rawdon  objected strongly to the portion of the Bill which went to deprive Irishmen of a right to relief in Scotland. He thought that Irishmen ought to be placed by this Bill in the same position, with respect to relief in Scotland, which a Scotchman would occupy under similar circumstances in Ireland. If a Scotchman in Ireland became destitute, he would have no difficulty in obtaining relief; and why, then, should not an Irishman be placed in an equally advantageous position in Scotland? This measure, however, so far from giving the
 1467
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  wished to say a few words in explanation of his reasons for voting, as he should do, for the postponement of this Bill. He had presented several petitions from Scotland, praying the House and the Government to postpone this measure until next Session; and he would ask, whether any one petition had been presented praying that it might be carried? What was the reason of such undue haste with regard to the Bill before the House? The people of Scotland had no confidence in the Bill. They viewed with great apprehension the proposed appointment of a central board with such terrific powers as were given to it by the Bill. The central board were to have the power of nominating the number of representatives the ratepayers were to have at the parochial board. The ratepayers surely ought to choose their own representatives. Again, by the 71st Clause the central board were to have the sole jurisdiction in cases with respect to the claims of the poor which were brought before them. Their decision was not liable to be interfered with by the courts of law. These were highly objectionable powers to give to the central board. There were other parts of the Bill to which he objected. Why should not the clergy of the Established Church be assessed to the poor, as they were to be members of the parochial board? Non-assessment to the poor-rate was made a ground of exclusion (in the case of baillies and other authorities) from the parochial board. The Bill ought not to be hurried in this way through Parliament. Time ought to be given for full inquiry. All the petitions, or nearly all, were against the Bill; there was scarcely one for it. In the name of the petitioners be protested against the Bill, and he should support the Motion of his hon. Friend.
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  wished to remind hon. Members that, since the recent division in the Church of Scotland, there was in some parishes no kirk session; and he thought they ought to care, before they adopted the Bill, that there was machinery in existence to carry out its provisions.
 Mr. M. Bellew , as an Irish Member, felt the impolicy and injustice of the Bill towards natives of Ireland resident in Scotland. The great evil of Ireland was want of employment; and the only remedy which a large portion of the population had for that was to seek in England and Scotland for that employment which they were deprived of in consequence of the non-residence of such large numbers of wealthy Irish proprietors. There were from 150,000 to 200,000 Irish in Glasgow, Dundee, Paisley, and Greenock; and it would be most unjust to deprive them of a claim to relief under this measure. They were obliged to pay poor rates, and, therefore, they ought not to be deprived of the right to relief. A most objectionable clause of this Bill was that under which a stranger seeking work was to be rendered liable to be treated as a vagabond.
 Mr. Sheil  begged to know whether the principle of the Bill that affected Ireland was one upon which the Lord Advocate was prepared to give way? There was one most important clause in this Bill, one which, if carried into a law, he was almost justified in saying would have a fatal operation. They provided by this Bill that no Irishman should obtain a settlement by residence in Scotland; they might tell him that this proposition was too broad, that he was not borne out by the words of the Bill in making that statement, because no Englishman, or native of the Isle of Man, could so acquire a sttlement in Scotland; that the clause was not directed against Ireland; and that he was getting up a case for clamour about justice to Ireland. But in Ireland a Scotchman did not gain a settlement by residence, because no one could acquire a settlement in that manner; in Ireland no settlement could be gained by residence. Therefore, Scotchmen, Englishmen, and natives of the Isle of Man, were in Ireland perfectly on a level. There were there no odious distinctions. Charity made no distinctions of country. But if an Irishman had resided in Scotland twenty years—if he had worked for that time in a factory at Glasgow, when he had lost his health and was worn out, when too old to work, and "to beg ashamed," what was the expedient they adopted? They sent him back to his own country, because he was not born in Scotland; because to Scotchmen alone was relief to be given. They would re
 1462
 Mr. Redington  said, the clause would have a peculiar operation upon Ireland; he wished he could augur from the silence of the Lord Advocate to the question of his hon. and learned Friend, that he would consent to his demand. He was sorry to
 1463
 Mr. S. Crawford  felt it necessary to make some observations on this question,
 1448 s. s., s. "Mr. Duncan Ross, General Assembly's teacher in Creech, being examined, said—'The usual allowances to people on the roll vary from 2 s. s. s. s. s. s. s. d. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. d.; s. d. s. "Those whom we consider paupers in this county are those who are disabled from in-
 1449 "The pauper classes have a small allowance from the kirk session, which in most cases, however, is not more than sufficient to provide them with shoes. I certainly think that the poor who are necessitous from age or infirmity ought to be better provided for than they now are, and that the heritors of Scotland generally ought to contribute more largely for this purpose than they are now in the habit of doing. I wish to state that the Duke of Sutherland feels it to be a duty to contribute to the poor funds in each parish in which he has an interest. To each of the parishes in this district he makes an allowance of 6 l. "The great assistance the poor get in my parish is from their poor neighbours, and that makes them all poor together. We have a good deal of begging in the parish; the people go about among their relations and friends, but at the same time they dislike to be considered as common beggars." "I do not approve of the system of supporting the poor by allowing them to beg. We tolerate the practice as a necessary evil under the present state of things. If our poor were not to beg, they must starve, as we have no adequate supply for them." "The poor on the roll often beg; indeed, begging is a necessary means of their existence." "There is a good deal of begging in the parish. The poor on the roll go about begging from place to place. Many do so with difficulty, they are so old and weak. However, they must do it, inasmuch as if they were debarred from this means of subsistence they would starve. The Duke of Sutherland is the only heritor. He sends 6 l. s. d. s. s. 1450 "'There is not a wealthy individual in the whole district.' 'For paupers and all cottars in general the principle food is potatoes and herrings. Their lodgings are wretched. The cottages are generally built of stone and turf mixed; the roof is always turf, with a covering of heather. Those recently built have a lining of clay, and sometimes lime in the inside. The old cottages have nothing but the bare earth for a floor; indeed, there are very few now which have anything else for a floor. The cottages have generally no chimneys; they have merely a hole in the middle—sometimes, however, at the end.' 'The greater part of Assynt is laid out in sheep farms, but the greater bulk of the population is confined to the shore,'" "A great proportion of the population in my parish consists of persons who have been located in villages along the coast, having been previously inhabitants in the interior. The land in the interior has now been converted into sheep walks." "I am very positive, and have not the slightest doubt, that the condition of the people has been very much deteriorated by the change. There is more money going about us now, but there is much more poverty, and not the same substantial comforts as formerly. It is true that when they were in the interior they were badly off in seasons when their cattle died. They used to subsist principally upon flesh, fish, milk, butter, and curds, and cream. They used to eat no vegetables. They had a few spots of oats and bear (barley), but they bought very little meal. Potatoes were only introduced when I was a child, and now it is their general food." "I am inclined to think that, in a majority of cases, the comforts of the labouring classes have been diminished by their removal to the coast. This is chiefly owing, I think, to the small extent of the allotments made to them, and partly also to the inferiority of the land, which is in many cases pure moss. I may also add, as indicating the effects of the change
 1451 "I remember very well the change which took place on removing the small tenants from the interior to the sea-shore. In my opinion the people have been decidedly losers by the change. They cannot command the same amount of the comforts of life as they did formerly. Their condition has been deteriorated both in food and in clothing. They used to keep many cattle, and they had an excellent supply of milk and of butcher's meat. They likewise manufactured their own clothing, and they were far better supplied with bedding and clothing than they are now. These are facts, to my certain knowledge. I came to live in the parish in 1813, and I have resided there ever since. The first partial change took place in 1814, the second and more important change in 1818, and the alteration was completed in 1819. I am certain, from my own personal observation, that the food and clothing of the small tenants is more scanty than formerly." "I have had various opportunities of becoming acquainted with the condition of the working classes in this district; and I am likewise generally acquainted with the condition of the paupers who receive relief from the kirk session. I consider that the poor on the kirk session roll are in a most miserable, destitute state. They are wholly depending on the contributions of their neighbours." "The tenants are but poorly off; their lots of land are too small to give them full employment, and it is but seldom that they can get other work in our locality. They are prevented from prosecuting the white fishing to
 1452 "He had been for twenty-three years an extensive dealer in fish. In 1844, the total produce of the fishing was under 25,000 barrels by 250 boats; but of these only 120 boats belonged to Sutherland, and the gross produce of their catch was under 7,000 barrels. The rest were caught by fishermen from other parts, and the whole produce of Sutherland fishing did not exceed 10,000 barrels." l., 1453 1454 s. s. d. 1455
By  Mr. D. Dundas : The declaration was delivered on the 26th of June, after I had left my office; I received it on going there the next morning, The time to plead will be out to-morrow.
 Sir G. Grey  said, that in the precedent quoted, the petition was not acted on by itself: it was referred to the Committee on Privileges and Elections, which at that time was a Committee of the whole House, and they called upon John Huggins, who was employed as the attorney for the defendant, to substantiate the petition, and he laid the declaration before the House. The first step now was to call the attorney of Mr. Parrott, who would have a copy of the declaration, by which the House would become aware in a formal manner of the facts of the case. With regard to any advice the House should tender to Mr. Parrott, his case was different from that of an officer of the House, and he did not think they were called upon to advise him whether he should plead or not.
 Sir J. Graham  said, he was so much gratified that the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Dundas) had taken that part in the debate which his talents and eloquence fitted him to take prominently, that they must rejoice in any circumstance which could stimulate him to address the House; and he would, therefore, be the last person to complain that the hon. and learned Gentleman had entered so much more into the discussion than he should perhaps have otherwise thought desirable. The hon. Member for Winchester said, that there appeared to be some reluctance to defend the Bill; but the principle of it had been so much discussed on the second reading, that he did not think it necessary to discuss it on the present occasion; and he was rather surprised that the hon. Gentleman himself should have complained of the absence of discussion, when he said, that all he thought necessary, was a short Act to give effect to the law already existing in Scotland. He (Sir J. Graham) admitted that the present law of Scotland was an excellent one.  Cadit questio, 1475
 Sir J. Graham  suggested, that the hon. Member opposite might propose some substantive addition to the 66th Clause, in preference to altering the interpretation clause.
 Sir J. M'Taggart  was aware that some improvement was necessary in the Poor Law of Scotland; but he regretted that a Bill of such importance should have been
 1461
 Sir R. Peel  confessed, that he thought this a question of great importance. As he collected the facts, here was a gentleman called upon to give evidence before a Committee—not coming forward voluntarily — as to the medical relief afforded to the poor in the Union in which he was chairman of the Board of Guardians; he had been compelled to give evidence on a matter deeply affecting the medical treatment of the poor. It appeared, and the House had every right to assume, that this evidence was perfectly consistent with the truth. Although the subject was referred to vaguely, in the words of the petition, it appeared highly probable that the action was commenced for words spoken in the Committee, particularly as there was a reference to Mr. Bramston. But they might have been spoken in the lobby of the House, or in Palace-yard, when Mr. Bramston was present, and then Mr. Parrott would not be entitled to any protection. It was more probable that they were used in evidence before a Committee of that House, and that Mr. Bramston was on the Committee. If so, he could not conceive a stronger claim to the protection of that House. Presuming the evidence of the truth to be clear, so far as Mr. Parrott was concerned, he had a claim, in justice and in equity, to any protection which the House could give him; and, so far as the House of Commons was concerned, he could not conceive a more serious impeachment of its privileges. He thought they ought to consider well the course they should pursue. He would not be precluded by the course taken in the case of Mr. Howard, but take that which, after recent events, should appear to be upon the whole best. He thought they ought to require the presence of the principal parties, and inquire of them to see whether they could possibly say the words were spoken on any
 1441
 Sir R. Peel  said, nothing was more important than that medical relief should be given in every practicable case; but he entertained a strong objection to giving to the people of Scotland a positive assurance that the poor should at all times be supplied with medical relief. He thought they should be cautious how they excited expectations which could not be realized. Everything that was possible ought to be done; but fallacious hopes should not be raised.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  thought parties were desirous of trying experiments in acts of contumacy; but before they proceeded further in this case, they ought to ascertain the facts as stated in the petition. There was no doubt of the respectability of the person petitioning; but it was necessary to prove that the action was brought on account of words spoken by a witness in the evidence given by him before a Committee of that House. Having this proved, they would have the choice of two courses—either immediately to pronounce this a breach of the privileges of the House, or to allow the action to proceed, and the defendant to plead the fact of a justification as an answer to the action. If a party should be proceeded against for words spoken in evidence given before Thomas Lord Denman, and twelve gentlemen, the action must proceed till the party justified the words as evidence given before the Court of Queen's Bench; so here, where the words were alleged to be spoken in Palace-yard, in the hearing of Mr. Bramston, the action must proceed till it was made to appear to the Court of Queen's Bench, that the words were spoken by a witness, in his evidence before a Committee of that House. There was no doubt, in this case, that the plaintiff could not stir without proving that the words spoken were in evidence given before a Committee of that House; and though the plaintiff might subpœna the shorthand writer to prove the words, the House would not allow him to attend. The House, however, ought to take the matter into their own hands, where any person acted contumaciously. The principal doubt was,
 1440
 Mr. Wynn  observed, that the attorney might be examined for the purpose of information; but the House could not adjudicate upon the case until Mr. Phillips or his attorney had been brought to the bar, to admit or deny the charge.
 Sir T. Fremantle  said, that he had received an account of the affray at Ballinhassig, in the neighbourhood of Cork. It appeared that a number of persons had assembled on the evening of a fair, and that the affray was caused by an attempt to rescue a man who had been taken into custody by the police. He had not received the accounts in detail, but he regretted to say that the circumstances, as they appeared in the public papers, were in the main correct. Several lives had been lost. As to whether the police were deserving of blame or not, he could not give an opinion until he had received further information. From that which he had already received, it would appear that they were not blameable; for when they fired at the people he was given to understand that they did it in order to preserve their own lives. As he had before said, an attempt was made to rescue a prisoner, who was removed to a place of confinement, the doors and windows of which were broken, and the roof was nearly demolished, when the police were driven to the necessity of firing on the people.
 Mr. Sheil  asked if any inquiry had been directed to be made into this unfortunate transaction?
 Sir T. Fremantle  said, that the coroner's inquest was to take place, and great care would be taken that it should be conducted with all the necessary formalities.
 15
 Mr. Bernal  said, that the circumstances out of which this trial and petition arose were these:—In the year 1837 or 1838 an application was made to the hon. Member for Cheltenham (Mr. C. Berkeley) to become a director in the Steam Navigation Company to India by the Cape of Good Hope. That offer Mr. Berkeley declined, and he heard no more of it for a time; but at length it came to his knowledge that a private Bill had passed through the House, and that his name had been inserted in it as a director, in (as we understood) the same company; but his hon. Friend had assured him (Mr. Bernal) that such a proceeding was without his sanction or knowledge. The speculation did not succeed, and not long after an action was brought against his hon. Friend and others for a sum of 30,000 l.,
 The Earl of Lincoln  would not detain the House for more than a few minutes, from coming to a division; but having taken upon himself to conduct this Bill, with the concurrence of his noble Friend, he thought that the House might expect him to refer to some of the objections which had been raised against it; but, after what had fallen from the noble Lord who had just sat down, he felt that he should have very little to say. Two reasons had been stated why they should not proceed with this Bill into Committee that evening. The hon. Member for Montrose said that
 29 30 31 32
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, that the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard had stated his objections so candidly and fairly, so entirely without allusion to remarks made elsewhere, suggesting that the alterations which had been made in the Bill were of a personal nature, that he was happily relieved from the necessity himself of adverting to those absurd suggestions. He could safely say that if any other existing board could be named as eligible for carrying out the Bill, exempt from those objections which he considered applied to the Tithe Commission in the matter, he should be very glad to relieve himself from the onerous and disagreeable addition now proposed to the already onerous duties involved in the office he had the honour to fill. At the same time, he begged to point out to the House how very differently hon. Gentlemen had viewed this subject on former occasions. When the noble Member for Lincolnshire introduced his first Bill on the subject, two years since, he introduced it with this clause in blank, a most unusual course. At the same time, the hon. Member for Berkshire also introduced a Bill for the general drainage of the country; and both of these hon. Gentlemen applied to him to sanction, on the part of the Woods and Forests Department, that the Woods and Forests Board should be the board to carry into effect the duties which it was now proposed to entrust to a board, of which the Chief Commissioner of Woods and Forests was to be a member. He represented to these hon. Gentleman what he considered would be grave objections to such an arrangement, arising out of the landed property of the Crown, cases affecting which would, to a large extent,
 36 37
 The Earl of Lincoln  begged to remind the noble Lord opposite that the opinions which Mr. Frankland Lewis had expressed were in reply to questions put by the noble Lord, having reference, not to the proposition of the Chief Commissioner of Woods and Forests being a member of the Commission under consideration, but to the proposition that the Board of Woods and Forests should be the Commission itself. The opinions of Mr. Frankland Lewis had been referred to, but those opinions were against the appointment of the Tithe Commissioners; for that gentleman stated, that as soon as the Commissioners had discharged the particular duty for which they had been appointed, the Commission ought to be at an end. If that opinion of Mr. Lewis were true, then it was quite evident that the Tithe Commissioners would not be the proper tribunal to decide upon those questions which would arise under this Bill. It was necessary that a Commission to decide on claims of this nature would require to have the perfect confidence of those whose rights would be effected by its decisions; and, therefore, seeing how much engaged the Tithe Commissioners had been in proceedings the very nature of which necessarily caused them to be unpopular with parties who would be affected by this Bill, he did not think that they would form the best tribunal to decide upon those claims.
 Mr. Clive  thought that, considering the important questions of property which the Commissioners would be called upon to decide, it was desirable that one of them, at least, should be a lawyer of considerable standing in his profession. He thought that there would be a great advantage in having the head of the Woods and Forests connected with the Commission; as by this arrangement a great deal of practical knowledge would be brought to the assistance of the Commission, and an additional security given for impartiality in the decisions of the Commission.
 Mr. Williams  said, it was proposed to saddle the country with additional and unnecessary expense in carrying out this Bill; and he was strongly opposed to that part of it. Why were the public called upon to contribute the funds to meet those expenses? He had not, for his own part, the slightest doubt as to the justice and impartiality of the Head Commissioner of Woods and Forests; but he agreed in thinking that a differently constituted tribunal would be preferred by those who would be more immediately affected by the decisions of the Commissioners; and he should, therefore,
 42
 The Earl of Lincoln  proposed to fill up the blank with the sum of 1,500 l.
 Mr. Williams  wished to know whether the expense was to be permanently fixed upon the public, or whether a charge was to be levied on the enclosures which should in the course of the year pay the whole expense of the Commission and the Commissioners. If the noble Lord would not consent to the latter arrangement, he (Mr. Williams) would take the sense of the House against granting any salary to the Commissioner.
 The Earl of Lincoln  did not intend to fix the salary on the enclosures, but that it should be defrayed, not only in the first instance, but ultimately by the public. The other expenses would fall legitimately and properly upon each particular enclosure; but he thought it was justifiable that this small sum should be defrayed by the public, looking upon the measure, as he did, not as a measure for the exelusive benefit of any class, but as one of national importance and advantage.
 Mr. B. Denison  did not consider 1,500 l.
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, the distinction was this — the expenses which properly attached to each particular enclosure, those
 46
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, he was anxious to give every information in his power, and if he could form anything like a calculation, he would give it. He would lather, however, run the risk of a division than mislead any Gentleman, and, therefore, beyond the 1,500 l.,
 Mr. Williams  would call attention to line 38 in the clause then before the Committee. In that, and in the two lines which followed, he found these words, "all lands in which the property or right of or to the vesture or herbage, or any part thereof, during the whole or any part of
 49
 The Earl of Lincoln  would first observe, in answer to the hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley), that the difference between the two classes of land described in the clauses referred to was this, that the eleven descriptions of property alluded to property which might be enclosed without coming to Parliament for previous sanction for such enclosure. The 12th Clause defined those lands which could not be so enclosed without first coming to Parliament for sanction so to do. As to the question of the hon. Member for Coventry (Mr. Williams), the definition would not include Lammas fields. It was not proposed to exempt any class of land under this Act; but the land which the hon. Gentleman alluded to came under the 12th Clause. Lammas fields being generally in the neighbourhood of large towns, came under the provisions applicable to the neighbourhoods of such towns.
 Mr. Williams  said, that it was desirable to place all such lands as he had alluded to under the operation of the Act, whereas by the Bill as it at present stood some of these lands would be enclosed and some not.
 The Earl of Lincoln  observed, that, with a view to prevent the enclosure of lands within a certain distance of large towns, it was intended that no enclosure of such should take place without the attention of Parliament being directed to it. All lands coming under the three descriptions referred to by the hon. Member for Oxfordshire must have the previous sanction of Parliament to enclose them, otherwise they could not be enclosed; and the lands luded to by the hon. Member for Coventry came in under the clause containing these three descriptions.
 Mr. Williams  inquired what was the process to be observed in obtaining the sanction of Parliament?
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, that the process was this: Whenever an enclosure was intended to take place, the parties seeking such enclosure must, in the first instance, apply to the Commissioners, and answer certain printed forms with which they would be furnished. If the Commissioners
 50
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman misunderstood the whole of the explanation he had given. By 6 and 7 William IV. he would find that provision had been made for enclosing certain lands without the consent of Parliament; these were the lands that were accurately comprised in one clause, and all these lands might be enclosed by the Commissioners. The reason why they were included in this Bill, was, that lands might now be enclosed by a private agreement, and great security of title had been found. It was intended to remedy that; and it was most desirable that facilities should be given under this Bill for remedying that defect. Parties would be enabled to enclose under this Bill, who could enclose under 6th William IV.
 51
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, if the hon. and learned Gentleman would look to the 37th Clause, he would find the matter perfectly clear. The 37th Clause stated that the Act of Parliament by which the lands were to be enclosed should be a public Act.
 The Earl of Lincoln  repeated that none of the classes in Clause 12 could be brought into operation without a public Act of Parliament.
 The Earl of Lincoln : Yes.
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  moved for Copies of the Reports, Valuations, and Surveys of the Estates of the Provost, Fellows and Scholars of Trinity College, Dublin, made by Maurice Collis, Esq. He stated that the Board of
 53
 Lord Worsley  said, it was difficult to estimate the expense, as the circumstances of each enclosure must regulate the expense. He would suppose a case where, for the convenience of occupation, allotments had been already made, but where the parties agreed that it would be better to have different allotments, and to have the land enclosed. In such a case the expense would be but small; but the case would be different in a place where, instead of 100 acres, there was a common of 20,000 acres, of which only 1,000 acres were to be enclosed, where there were a variety of claimants, and many of those who made claims had no rights. The consequence of this would be repeated adjournments and increased expense. It was of the utmost importance that the paid Commissioner should be a man in whom all parties had confidence. He would also impress upon his noble Friend the absolute necessity of having, as one of the Commissioners, a person who was a good lawyer. Independently of other considerations, a great saving of expense would thereby be occasioned.
 Lord Worsley  said, that as to the Woods and Forests being entrusted with the management of this Bill, the opinions of Mr. Frankland Lewis, as they appeared
 38 "You think it more desirable to create a new Commission? Yes; that you should create some new and appropriate power, unless you give the business to some one of the existing officers of State; I have not had time to think much upon the matter, but I have no doubt it would be far better to annex it to some such Department as that of the Woods and Forets.—Do you think it would give satisfaction in Wales, that the Board of Woods and Forests should have the control? I do not think they would feel the slightest dissatisfaction, if you could define what is to be done with the Crown manors.—Is there not some jealousy in Wales as to the Crown property? Yes; particularly in North Wales, where there are mineral rights; there is property in dispute there, and it is not known what the Crown's rights are; there are disputes of that kind: but setting apart the difficulty that arises connected with the Crown property, I should entertain the impression myself, that where the Crown's interests were not concerned, the Woods and Forests would be a very good tribunal; and wherever the Crown is concerned, I think some particular step should be taken to deal with its rights in that respect."
 Lord Worsley  hoped the House would direct its attention to what he conceived to be the grounds on which this Bill rested. He had not had an opportunity of being present in the House when the Bill had been introduced by the noble Lord (the Earl of Lincoln); and he would, therefore, wish briefly to refer to what had already been done with respect to this subject. Hon. Gentlemen would, perhaps, recollect that
 19 20 21 22 23
 Mr. C. Berkeley  was quite willing that the Motion should be carried, as far as he was personally concerned, but positively denied that his name had been inserted in the Bill with his approbation.
 Mr. C. Berkeley  added that he had no wish to stand in the way of the most searching inquiry. His name had been used without any authority from him.
 Mr. Escott  observed, that the most efficient means of any to check improper practices on the part of a Commission such as this, would be, that a Member of
 39
 Mr. C. Buller  said, that he intended to move an Amendment to the 1st Clause, although he did not object to the principle of the Bill. There was, however, a matter involved in the 1st Clause, which appeared to him to be so objectionable that, if persisted in, it would almost induce him to oppose the Bill. His opinion had always been that the greatest facilities should be given for the enclosure of the common land of the country, after the maintenance of any right or compensation in lieu of it; and he believed, that no class of persons were so much interested in carrying out a sound system of enclosure as the poorer classes. He should now endeavour to induce the House to adopt alterations in the machinery of the Bill, which, if he succeeded in doing, his main objections to the Bill would be removed. The Bill of his hon. Friend the Member for Lincolnshire proposed that the inquiries respecting enclosures should be referred to a Board of Comissioners now existing, and which was conversant with questions connected with the land of this country, and was wholly unconnected with politics. He thought, that the great objection to this Bill was, that such great powers under it
 33 34 35 "The Tithe Commissioners of England and Wales shall be the Commissioners under this Act."
 Mr. C. Buller  wished to know why a distinction was made as to classes of land, some of which, it appeared, were to fall under the operation of the 11th Clause, and some under the 12th Clause? As he understood, there never was to be an enclosure made without an Act of Parliament; but why was there some inquiry not to be applicable to the three last classes of commons, which required, it appeared, a different machinery from eleven other classes? What was to be the difference between them? Suppose he wanted to have an enclosure under the 12th Clause, was there then to be a previous application to Parliament, as under the old form? What was there that should exempt those three classes of commons from the general provisions of the Bill? The exceptions seemed to him so large as to defeat the intentions of the Bill. Perhaps the noble Lord would explain the reason for making this distinction?
 Mr. C. Buller , in reply, would ask hon. Members if the House would act with more perfect freedom as regarded a Report laid on the Table of the House, which Report was prepared by gentlemen for whom the Government were not responsible, or a Report prepared by a Commission connected with the Government of the day? He had not the least suspicion as to the honour and impartiality of the noble Lord (Lord Lincoln); but he regarded with great alarm the exertions which were every day making to place powers which affected the rights of individuals, in the hands of the Executive
 44
 Mr. C. Buller  observed that in the Clause 12, it was said by the noble Lord that none of the classes comprised in it could be brought into operation without a public Act of Parliament. As he understood the Bill, no commons of any kind could be enclosed without the direction of Parliament. The noble Lord then said nothing of those three other kinds of commons referred to in Clause 11 (as we understood); and the ambiguity which would arise from this was, that there seemed to be some other kind of commons besides those in the 12th Clause, which might be enclosed without an application to Parliament. He took it that there was only one class of commons—that in the 11th Clause—which might be enclosed without an application to Parliament.
 Mr. C. Buller  considered that it would be impossible for any one to read those two Clauses, the 11th and 12th, without falling into an error. That which the 12th Clause required, was something different from Clause 11. That now, however, seemed not to be the meaning of the Act. It seemed to him that the clauses were misplaced.
 Mr. C. Buller  observed that, by the 12th Clause, it was stated that lands should be enclosed under this Bill. He referred to line 7, Clause 12. What, then, was the meaning of the 11th Clause, as to lands that might be enclosed? Were they, too, not under the operation of this Act?
 Mr. Newdegate  thought that it was impossible there could be any well-founded suspicion of the decisions and motives of the Board on such matters as those that would come before them; and, in a constitutional point of view, he did not think that there was any danger to be apprehended from the appointment of a Minister of the Crown to the Commission.
 Colonel Sibthorp  was no friend to Commissions, and should object to keeping up the Tithe Commission, which had already cost the country 220,000 l.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, he fully agreed with the hon. Member for Rochdale, who had just sat down, that it was better to postpone the consideration of the Bill for another Session. There were so many interests concerned in the provisions of this Bill, that he confessed he thought the present was not a period of the Session when they could satisfactorily take the matter into consideration. He confessed he thought that the Bill was a vast improvement upon the measure that had been introduced by his noble Friend opposite, the Member for North Lincolnshire (Lord Worsley); but still there were many parts of it to which he had the strongest objection. It would, for instance, give great powers to men who were wholly unacquainted with the various parts of the country with which they would have to interfere, and where these inclosures would take place. Besides, he had no great predilection for Commissioners; and, he believed, the country agreed with him in that. They had sufficient experience already of the expenses of Commissioners, and of the little good which they effected. They had instances of that in the Poor Law Commissioners and in the Tithe Commissioners. These latter originated in the year 1836, and from that time to the present, they had cost the country some hundreds of thousands of pounds; and, after all, had done little or nothing for it. This Bill would give great powers to the lords of the manor. It would enable those individuals to take good care of themselves; and he had some misgivings about the manner in which they would exercise the power given to them. On going into Committee, he should endeavour to do his duty in improving the measure, and he certainly should aid his noble Friend (the Earl of Lincoln) as far as he possibly could.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, he observed that the Lord High Commissioner, or Commissioners, might allow to any commissioner, assistant commissioner, secretary, clerk, messenger, or other officer, such reasonable travelling and other expenses as might be incurred in the performance of their duty, in addition to his salary or allowance. He did not like this uncertainty. He hoped those persons would travel by second-class carriages; but they might travel very expensively, and he thought this was a power that ought not to be given.
 Colonel Sibthorp  moved the omission of the clause.
 Mr. Darby  did not think that the Tithe Commissioners would form a proper tribunal for the decision of the claims under this Bill.
 Colonel Dawson Damer  appeared at the bar, and stated that, in reply to an Address which had been presented to Her Majesty, he was commanded to present the following Answer:—
 "I have received your Address upon the subject of securing an uniformity of Gauge for Railways in Great Britain. "My consideration shall be given to the matter to which your Address refers."
 Mr. G. A. Hamilton  said, as the Motion was of a peculiar nature, it was his duty to state, in confirmation of what the hon. Member had said, that it was made with the assent and concurrence of the Board of Trinity College. The information which was sought for, had already been given in substance, though not in detail, by Mr. Collis, in his evidence before the Land Commission. The details, however, were important, and the Return moved for by the hon. Member would afford some interesting information with regard to the occupation of land in Ireland. It had been obtained at a very considerable cost by the Board of Trinity College. He understood the survey, and valuation, and inquiry, had cost no less than 3,000 l.;
 Mr. Warburton  agreed with the noble Lord in thinking that there was no fear that political influence would interfere with the working of the commission. But to the objection of the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard, as to the Crown lands, and the impropriety of the Woods and Forests being on the Commission, the noble Lord had given no answer. It was a general principle that no individual body should adjudicate on cases where they were interested. He objected on this ground to a Commissioner of the Woods and Forests being a Member of the Commission under this Bill. With regard to the proposition of the hon. and learned Gentleman, that the Tithe Commissioners should work this measure, he was inclined to support it, partly because of the experience they must have acquired, and partly because it would get rid of the objection to the Woods and Forests being connected with the Commission.
 Mr. Warburton  did not think the House would be justified in stopping the progress of a cause merely because an hon. Member was concerned in it as a defendant. He imagined that the hon. Member would be anxious that the whole matter should be fully investigated.
 Dr. Bowring  concurred in the view taken by the hon. Gentleman as to reducing the sum. The principle on which they should act in a case of this kind was, to maximise aptitude, and to minimise expense. [ Laughter.
 Mr. Trelawny  said, his hon. Friend who had just sat down, had commenced by saying, that this was a landlords' Bill; and he asked, why should they not come before Parliament in every case in which it was desirable to effect enclosures of waste ground? But would the House bear in mind the great expense of getting one of these Enclosure Bills passed? They would require to have some 4,000 Enclosure Bills passed, each of which would cost the parties from 1,000 l. l. 26
 Mr. Wawn  said, he should move as an Amendment that the proposed salary should be 1,000 l. l.
 Mr. Wawn  wished the noble Lord would state what he really meant with regard to the expenses.
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that the Bill was better calculated to preserve and defend the rights of the poor, than the existing law. It was impossible, under the present system, for a poor man to defend his rights, whilst a Commission would give him very great facilities in that regard, which he did not at present possess.
 Mr. Henley  regarded the objections stated to the appointment of the Tithe Commission as in no degree valid; but there was this very valuable difference between the Bill of the noble Lord opposite, and that before the House, that the latter allowed an appeal to the House in the more important matter of disputed enclosure cases.
 Mr. Henley  wished to put a question to the noble Lord. He found in this clause eleven definitions of property liable to come under the operation of the Act; and in the clause which followed it three descriptions of property exempted from its operation, and which it was provided were not to be enclosed without the special authority of Parliament. Now it so happened that the three descriptions of property which were so exempted did not agree with the eleven descriptions of property which were to come under the operation of the Act. Why give power to do eleven things, and then proceed to exempt three, without using, as to those exempted, the same kind of language as was employed in reference to the others?
 Mr. Hume  urged that whatever was usually done in such cases, ought to be done in this case.
 Mr. Hume  was sorry to feel it to be his duty to oppose this Bill; but he was bound to give his support to the Amendment on the same grounds on which he had resisted the measures of the noble Lord (Lord Worsley) in former years. The noble Lord might recollect that he had invariably opposed his Motions on this subject; and in adopting a similar course on the present occasion, he felt bound to express his surprise at the manner in which so important an enactment was allowed to proceed, as if it were some mere every-day occurrence, and not deserving of any particular attention from the House. He considered that, generally speaking, all lands that were worth enclosing had already been enclosed, and any which were not, ought to be interfered with only by special application to the House and on its own merits. He objected to the Bill because it was a landed proprietors' Bill, be they large or small; and because it would take away from poor men—from those who constituted the great mass of the community—the advantages which they now possessed in the enjoyment of air and exercise on these commons. He was sorry to hear from a legal Friend near him, that commonages were all private property. In his opinion, and as he interpreted the law, they comprised lands never granted to any individuals; but belonging to the Crown for the benefit of the public. He, therefore, regarded this Bill as one for taking away the little public property which still remained available for the health and enjoyment of the community, in order to divide it amongst the landed proprietors. It was true that some persons who possessed small spots of land would obtain a proportionate share of the common to be enclosed; but still the great advantage would clearly be derived by the large proprietors; while the poor, who now had the privilege of going through the lands, were to be entirely excluded, as the whole would be enclosed. He, therefore, considered the question as politically of importance; and if he had
 24 25 l. l. l.
 Mr. Wakley  had voted against going into Committee on the Bill, because he did not believe that it had been sufficiently long before the public; and that, consequently, it was not well understood out of doors. There was a strong feeling against it outside that House; and he was perfectly satisfied it was a feeling which would not be so strong if the Bill were properly understood. He was of opinion that the principle of the Bill was good, and he looked upon it as a measure which was calculated to confer considerable advantage on the working people. He was in favour of the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard; for he thought the appointment of new Commissioners for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of the Bill, was quite unnecessary; and he was the more inclined to have the Tithe Commissioners appointed to discharge these duties, in consequence of the satisfactory manner in which they had performed that which had already been assigned to them. What necessity existed for the appointment of new Commissioners? The noble Lord (Lord Lincoln) had replied to his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Buller), but he had not answered any of his arguments satisfactorily. He objected to the appointment of a Minister of the Crown as one of the Commissioners; for he did not conceive that real responsibility would attach to the Minister in consequence of that appointment, whilst at the same time it would give to the Government such influence as would enable it to carry any measure it pleased; and then the Minister could come down to the House, and say that it was not his individual act, but the act of the Commissioners generally. If more time were granted before the Bill were carried, it would be a very great advantage; as an erroneous impression, which very generally prevailed at present, might be removed. There was an impression abroad at present, that this Bill was an outrageous attack upon the rights of the poor; but he could say that, so far as his experience had gone in that House, when an Enclosure Bill was proceeding under the present system, a poor man had no chance in the conflict; and he never could find in the result of the proceedings of this nature, that the poor man had any rights at all. It was supposed by great numbers, that those who lived around a common were generally a happy population; but there could not be a greater mistake. They
 43
 Mr. Wakley  thought, that in every respect the public would be greatly the gainers by this Bill. They would not only thereby acquire a vast amount of additional labour for the unemployed poor, but they would also facilitate, by means of the Bill, the bringing into market of an immense additional supply of food—a consideration which, of itself, should weigh
 47 l. l. l., l.
 Mr. Baine  presented a petition from two persons of the name of Scott, praying; that the House would give leave to Mr. Paskin and three other officers of the House to attend as witnesses in the Common Pleas, in an action brought by Messrs. Scott against the hon. C. F. Berkeley.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  rose to move the postponement of the Bill until next Session. It appeared to him that the Bill would take away the rights of common from all future generations, and that the benefits of such rights of common would be taken away from the poor without any adequate compensation. The provisions of the Bill would offer a bribe to those who had the present use of those rights to sell that which they had no power to dispose of, namely, the rights of future generations. Ten acres was the utmost amount of common allowed for a population of from ten thousand to thirty thousand. He did not object to enclosures of commons on just and equitable terms, but the interests of the poor were not provided for by the Bill before the House. If the pasturage of cows on commons was subject to proper regulations, it would be of great benefit to the poor man. The experience of past Enclosure Bills, proved to him that the interests of the poor were not cared for. It was said, that the poor would benefit by the employment which the enclosure of commons would give rise to; but he thought that was very doubtful—he did not think the evidence of the past was very encouraging on this point. From the reign of Queen Anne down to the reign of George the Fourth, upwards of 6,000,000 acres of land had been enclosed; he did not, however, think that the employment of the poor and the improvement of their means would bear any proportion to the quantity of land which had been enclosed. Waste land, if applied to the purposes of small occupation, would be of great benefit to the poor, both by increasing their employment, and their supply of food. The House did not seem to like small occupancies, and the example of Ireland had been referred to. It was, however, unfair to say that the distress of the people of Ireland arose from small occupancies. The following was the average size of farms in different counties, computed on the number of arable acres in each county, and taken
 16 d. d. "The farms in Belgium rarely exceed 100 acres; the number containing fifty acres is not great; those of thirty and twenty acres are more numerous; but the number of holdings of from five to ten fifteen and twenty acres is very considerable, especially those of the smaller extent, and to these I chiefly confined my inquiries." "The productive powers of the soil are inferior to the soil of Ireland. To the soil and climate, therefore, the Belgian farmer did not owe his superiority in comfort over the Irish cultivator, but to the system of cultivation, and the habits of economy and forethought of the people." "He had a wife and five children, and appeared to live in much comfort. He paid for house and land 9 l. s, d. 17 "As far as I could learn, there was no tendency to the subdivision of the small holdings. I heard of none under five acres held by the class of peasant farmers: and six, seven, or eight acres is the more common size." "Notes of a Traveller," "The first operation in reclaiming land from a state of nature is certainly to plant it with men." … "It is the time only, and that time not valued, of the small proprietor, which can fertilize, bit by bit, such land;" "They do not consider the somewhat important difference of people being the owners or not the owners of the land divided." 18
 Sir G. Clerk  did not see how the officers of the House could be wanted to identify a Member, as was alleged in the
 14
 Viscount Ebrington  saw little objection to the appointment of the Tithe Commissioners for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of the Bill. Those Commissioners had at present a great deal of time on their hands, and he thought it would be well to occupy that time with some kindred work for which they were eminently fitted. He looked upon the appointment of new Commissioners as perfectly needless.
 Viscount Palmerston  fully concurred with the proposal of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Liskeard, not in consequence of any doubt which he could possibly entertain of a Board of Commissioners with the noble Lord (Lord Lincoln) at their head; for he should, with the greatest pleasure, submit any private right in which he was concerned to the decision of the noble Lord. It was not enough that a tribunal of the nature of the Commission which was to be appointed under this Bill should have the confidence of the House in the justice of its decisions, or that the House should have an opportunity of calling for explanations of its proceedings from a responsible Minister of the Government; the object was to inspire the country with confidence in that tribunal.
 40 41
 Viscount Palmerston  said, he should support the general principles of the Bill; but he would reserve to himself the right of thinking that some of the details might be improved. He felt anxious, before the House came to a division on the Amendment, to say a few words on the argument of his hon. Friend. The hon. Member conceived that the Bill was a landlords' Bill—that the object of it was to take away from the people of this country lands which he seemed to think were now vested in the Crown for the use of the population at large. Now, he differed entirely from his hon. Friend as to his legal theory, as well as from his view of the Bill. Nothing, he believed, could be more indisputable in point of law, than that the common land of the country does not belong to the community at large, but to a certain number of individuals resident in the neighbourhood. There was no question, but that all the commons in the country were the property of some one, or some set of persons. As to this Bill being to the prejudice of the labouring classes, he considered that it was a Bill essentially for the interest of the agricultural labourers. There was altogether in England and Wales about 37,000,000 of acres of land, and of these 10,000,000 would come under the operation of this Bill. It was in evidence before the Committee, that, taking one description of land with another, and setting aside the temporary employment that would be afforded before the enclosures could be completed, in the draining, the fencing, the ditching the lands, and in the erection of the
 27 28
 Sir J. Y. Buller  rose to present a petition from Theodore Divett, of Totness, Devon, attorney, who stated therein that Charles Edwards was his partner, and had brought an action against Mr. Jasper Parrott, on behalf of one David Phillips, without ever having consulted the petitioner on the subject. Petitioner had never interfered in the proceedings, they being entirely conducted by the said Charles Edwards. The petitioner, therefore, prayed that he might be discharged from further attendance on the House. The hon. Baronet said, that the petitioner had assured him privately that these statements were true. He moved that the petition be laid on the Table of the House, and trusted that its prayer would be granted.
 Sir J. Y. Buller  also presented a petition from Charles Edwards, of Totness, and Thomas Baker, of Lime Street, attorneys, stating, that they had brought the action against Mr. Parrott on account of giving evidence before a Committee of that House, which evidence was stated in the declaration to be wilfully and maliciously false; that, in so doing, they were not aware that they were committing a breach of privilege, as they did not suppose that privilege would be extended to evidence not given  bonâ fide.
 Sir J. Y. Buller  asked the witness whether, being now aware that he had committed a breach of privilege, by calling in question evidence given before a Committee of that House, he was now willing to instruct his agents to withdraw the action?
 Lord J. Russell  doubted whether, before going further, they ought not to take into consideration the answer of the last witness to a question put by the hon. Baronet the Member for South Devon (Sir J. Buller). The witness had stated that he was willing to withdraw his action, and submit himself to the House. If that
 88
 Lord J. Russell , after what had been said, thought there was little doubt except as to the mode of proceeding. If it was more regular that a petition should be presented to the House, he thought it better they should not proceed further without deliberation. He would move as an Amendment, that "to-morrow" be inserted in the Motion instead of "to-day."
 Sir J. Y. Buller  said, he had such a petition. It expressed the petitioner's regret that the action should have been brought. It stated, that at the time of commencing the action, he was not aware that he was committing a breach of the privileges of the House, but that he had since been informed that it was; and he now expressed his humble regret and contrition, and assured the House that no further proceedings should be taken in the said action.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that in moving his Amendment, his object was to enable the House to come to some arrangement with respect to Mr. Phillips, before dealing with the case of Mr. Edwards and the others. He would withdraw his Amendment, if the hon. Member for Exeter would withdraw his Motion, the question as to the other parties being still left open.
 Sir J. Y. Buller  presented the petition of Mr. Phillips, expressing his regret that he had unknowingly violated the privileges of the House, etc., which was read.
 Mr. Bernal  said, that although he was disposed to concur in what the hon. Member for Finsbury had said, he was also disposed to agree with the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir Thomas Wilde), who suggested that that question could not properly be brought forward on the present occasion. Unless they were prepared to say that the parties should be at once discharged, he was not disposed to have their attendance at the bar immediately.
 Sir John Yarde Buller  presented a petition from Charles Edwards, Thomas Baker, and the other parties summoned to appear before the House, stating that they were not aware, in bringing the action complained of, that they were guilty of a breach of the privileges of the House, expressing their contrition at having violated its privileges, and throwing themselves upon the indulgence of the House.
 Sir T. Acland  moved after the words "or
 110 "Provided always that any person appointed to be president, vice-president, or member of the governing body of each of such Colleges, shall, before he enter upon the duties of any of the said offices, make and subscribe the following declaration:—'I, A. B., do solemnly and sincerely declare that I acknowledge and receive the Holy Scriptures of the Old and New Testament as containing the revealed will of Almighty God.'" 111 Reminiscences of Dr. Arnold,
 Mr. Cowper  rejoiced in having an opportunity of supporting the Amendment of the hon. Baronet, as it comprehended a principle in which he thought that all who deserved the name of Christians might agree.
 Lord C. Hamilton  did not think there was any country in which there was so much religion and so little infidelity as in Ireland.
 Mr. Gladstone  said, that the high character of the hon. Baronet who had proposed this Amendment, and of those Gentlemen who supported it, was such as to render it incumbent upon those who entertained objections to his proposition, and who yet had a sincere regard for religion, to say something in support of their reasons for disagreeing with it. He must say, then, that he thought there was much force in the objections which had been advanced by the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) as to the ambiguity of this test. His hon. Friend must be aware that between Protestants of different sects, and certainly between the Church and the Unitarians, there were many differences with respect to the original version of many portions of the Holy Scriptures. Now, as to matters of general principle, he must say, that it was undesirable for parties engaged in the selection of a test to choose words which they not merely suspected, but which they knew must be used by different classes of persons in a different sense. It was difficult to secure perfect  bona fides 116
 Mr. John S. Wortley  moved the Amendment of which he had given notice, with a view to connect the Colleges with religious instruction as much as possible—
 "To insert after the words, 'lodged and boarded therein,' the words, 'and also the provisions and regulations proposed to be made for securing to the said student the means of due attendance upon such religious instruction and divine worship as may be approved by his parents and guardians, and recognised by the governing body of the College.'"
 Lord J. Manners  said, that the closing observations of the right hon. Baronet brought him to a different conclusion from that at which the right hon. Baronet had arrived. In referring to the responsibility of the Ministers of the Crown upon this subject, he must add, without wishing to say anything which might cast suspicion upon the present, or upon any Government, that he could not help reflecting upon what was taking place in France upon questions of this sort, where a system of education which was upheld by the whole weight of a Government, of which M. Guizot was a leading member, was stigmatized as an infidel system. From the best investigation which he had been able to give to this question, and the statements which had been made upon it, he must say, that when they were about to introduce a similar system in this country, it behoved them to weigh with the greatest care every proposition which was brought forward of so dangerous a tendency. With reference to the proposition of the hon. Baronet (Sir T. Acland),
 114
 Lord John Russell : The Bill alluded to by the right hon. Baronet—the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill—is one of which I took charge, on finding that my right hon. Friend the Member for Devonport (Sir George Grey), who was far better qualified to conduct it through the House than I am, was not able to do so. I thought the right hon. Baronet would have been enabled to say, with respect to that Bill, that there was a sufficient number of Government days on which it might go through the House, either for its acceptance or its rejection. If he had done so, I should be prepared to go on with it; but I do not conceive that any purpose would be answered by proceeding to the second reading of a Bill nearly similar to that which was introduced by Her Majesty's Government in 1843, and the second reading of which was affirmed. I should hope, however, that in the course of the next Session Her Majesty's Government will undertake to bring forward such a Bill; and certainly if they do not, either I or my right hon. Friend will undertake it, and in that case I should hope that the right hon. Gentleman will give it that support which I gave
 81
 Mr. Adderley  said, that if the Colleges to be established were to be confined to the teaching of the natural sciences, the religious tests would be unnecessary; but as they would trench on this field of moral duty, the case became altered. He had voted for the Maynooth Bill because it recognised the duty of the State to provide for the religious instruction of the majority of the people; and he should vote for the Amendment, because the Government proposition was a retreat from that principle.
 By Mr. Baldwin : Witness had lost all his parish business; but could not say how far his private practice had suffered.
 Mr. Hindley  said, the House ought to consider whether the allegations contained in the statement of Mr. Phillips were correct or not, before they engaged in a contest with the attorneys in the case. He thought that gentleman had stated a case which it was incumbent on them to investigate; they ought to do their utmost to ascertain the truth, but not allow any one to make statements injurious to private character.
 Mr. Hindley  contended it involved a violation of liberty of conscience, for it precluded students from resorting for instruction to tutors of their own religious creed, while it compelled them to receive the tuition of professors appointed by the Government. He had, therefore, to move that the clause be omitted.
 Mr. Hindley  opposed the clause, as contrary to the spirit of the Mortmain Acts in this country.
 Mr. Speaker  observed that the right hon. Baronet had reminded him of a case which supported the views which he had originally entertained of the matter, that it was not absolutely necessary that the parties should petition the House. If the parties should appear and submit themselves verbally at the bar of the House, that, he apprehended, would be sufficient. In this case it was necessary that the House should come to some determination as to what he should address to the parties when they were called to the bar.
 The Speaker  having put the Question,
 Colonel Sibthorp  wished it to be understood that in opposing this Bill he was influenced by no uncharitable feeling towards the Roman Catholics of Ireland. He entertained great respect for the talent of the Government, but deeply regretted their inconsistency. Consistency was the strongest and greatest virtue of a Government. But the present Government had exhibited a subservient expediency, and a strong desire to go to the opposite side. He regretted to see such Bills as this and the Maynooth Bill emanating from parties professing the Protestant religion. He could not place much reliance on the professions of men who acted so inconsistently; for he judged of men by their conduct and not by their professions. There were times when he could not believe that the right hon. the First Lord of the Treasury and the right hon. the Secretrary of State for the Home Department could be capable of bringing forward such measures; but now those Gentlemen were playing expected. He had opposed this Bill at its introduction; he should oppose it at he bringing up of the Report, and also at the third reading, and no modification of it would reconcile him to it. He regretted very much that the Government were acting with two faces under a hood, and not in the manner which they had led the country to believe they would act.
 Mr. Divett  said, if it was the wish of the House that he should give way, he had no objection; but if he did so, it would be with the reservation of the right to call the attorney and the other parties to the bar.
 Mr. Divett  moved that Charles Edwards be brought to the bar.
 Mr. Divett  would be very sorry to divide the House on a minor point of this description. If he could gather the general feeling of the House, it was in favour of postponement until to-morrow. ["No, no."] Some hon. Members, at all events, were opposed to proceeding that evening; and with the consent of the House, therefore, he would withdraw his Motion, and move instead, that the parties should be ordered to attend at the bar to-morrow.
 Mr. Divett  could not agree with his noble Friend; it was evident that the party they had had before them knew very little of the privileges of the House; but his attorneys did, and, if they advised him, were the culpable parties. He must persist in his Motion that Mr. Charles Edwards be called to the bar.
 By Mr. Divett : Witness gave instructions to his solicitors to commence the action, he thought, about October, November, or December last: he left to his attorney to determine in what court to bring the action. After calling on the board of guardians to inquire respecting this matter, he wrote a circular to all the guardians; and he took the liberty, on the 22nd of November, of directing one to the noble Lord (Ashley) who presided over the Medical Poor Relief Committee. 87
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that in the first petition which they had presented that evening, these gentlemen stated that they apprehended that the state of the law was that a witness was protected, except when he maliciously and slanderously stated facts which were not true, in giving his evidence; and that, as a witness was not pretected, under such circumstances, in a court of justice, they had argued that the protection of the House of Commons extended no further than that afforded to witnesses by a court of justice, and that it was under that impression that they had brought the action against the defendant. He had himself looked into the law on this matter, and found that there were strong opinions on the one side as well as on the other, as to whether witnesses were or were not to be protected who gave evidence in a court of justice of matters not true, with a slanderous and malicious intent.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he wished to move certain Resolutions to be embodied in the Bill. The object of the first was to place grocers who were dealers in spirits in Ireland under the same supervision of the police authorities as other dealers were subject to. The other Resolution had reference to the importation of spirits from Guernsey and Jersey into this country. At the present time those islands enjoyed advantages which were not allowed to any other part of the United Kingdom. The introduction of compound spirits from Scotland and Ireland was prohibited, and that prohibition ought to be extended to Jersey and Guernsey. He, therefore, proposed, that a duty of 9 s. 121
 Mr. Warburton  hoped the hon. Member for Exeter would withdraw his Motion, so as to enable the House to dispose of Mr. Phillips's case, leaving that of Mr. Edwards and the other parties to be dealt with afterwards.
 Mr. Roebuck  observed that the noble Lord had suggested that the matter should rest where it was until to-morrow, and that the parties should, in the meantime, find out what the House had resolved upon. Now the dignified, straightforward, simple, and manly course was to bring them forward to the bar immediately, and to say to them that they (the House) had read their petition, and had resolved that the action which they had
 98
 Mr. Roebuck  said, he could not see any use in delay. The whole matter might be got through in half an hour.
 Mr. Roebuck  admitted that the House had received reparation as far as regarded the witness himself; but he was not the only offender. The real offender was behind; the person who had really offended was the attorney. The House ought to have from him the same assurance that he
 89
 Mr. Hume  said, he wished to have some understanding with regard to the tax upon coals. He would be glad that the Government should fix some day for discussing that subject. He objected to the tax of one penny a ton being fixed on coals, to be expended under the control of the Commissioners of Woods and Forests.
 Mr. Hume  was for proceeding immediately. It appeared to him that they would be lowering their own dignity by delay.
 Mr. Hume  hoped the right hon. Baronet would, under those circumstances, either move that the order for the attendance of the parties be discharged, or that they should be summoned to appear without delay.
 Mr. Hume  had no objection to this being done; but they should first ascertain who had brought the action. The witness seemed to know very little about it.
 Mr. Borthwick  said he was authorized to say, on the behalf of the parties who were the subjects of the Motion before the House, that if they had committed any breach of the privileges of the House, they were sorry for having done so.
 Mr. Borthwick  wished that the students should be required to attend divine service in their respective churches and chapels daily; and also that the following clause be inserted after Clause 14:—
 "And for the better securing the due attendance of the students in the said Colleges for divine worship, according to the creeds which they severally profess to hold, be it enacted, that it shall be lawful for the president and professors, or other governing body of each of the said Colleges which shall be constituted in and by the said letters patent, to assign chapels within the precincts of each
 102 ex cathedra, 103 104
 Mr. Borthwick  replied: He had endeavoured, on opening this subject, to confine himself as closely as possible to the subject of debate. He regretted to perceive that that House seemed unfitted to the discussion of a religious question—not that a religious question was unfitted for the House, but the House seemed unfitted to the discussion of a religious question. His single object was to substitute liturgical for didactical instruction. Now let them suppose the case of Bishop Daly, of Dr. Higgins, and Dr. Cooke, three clergymen of strong opinions, inculcating those opinions each upon the pupils of his own creed. He could conceive nothing more calculated to lead to religious dissension amongst the students at those Colleges. He regretted deeply that the right hon. Gentleman had determined to oppose his Amendment. However, as he saw no chance of carrying it, against the right hon. Gentleman's opposition, he considered it would be only a waste of time to put the Committee to the trouble of dividing. The hon. Gentleman stated that he withdrew his Amendment.
 Mr. Philip Howard  opposed the Motion of the hon. Baronet (Sir T. Acland); as a Catholic, he feared, if adopted, it might lead to the inference, that tradition was not a necessary part of the groundwork of faith. It would also be better in a new measure not to revive the system of tests, where no imperative and cogent necessity required it. It would be well to reserve the power of naming a Jew to the chair of Hebrew, in the same manner as it would be natural to appoint a German, or a Frenchman, to the Professorships of their respective languages. If inclined to criticise the terms of the proposed test, he should say, it would be more correct
 115
 Mr. Philip Howard  contended that no great evil could arise from the retention of
 120
 Captain B. Osborne  would not oppose the bringing up of the Report on the Irish Colleges Bill, if his Motion could be taken on the third reading. As he was on his legs, he would wish to ask the right hon.
 82
 Mr. Spooner  objected to the clause as giving an endowment to any teacher of whatever form of belief he might be. It was not even restricted to the endowment of Christian ministers. Such a conflict of religions would tend to infidelity among the pupils.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that the right hon. Baronet ought to bring the parties to the bar at once, or to discharge them altogether. If they gave the parties time until to-morrow to consider what course they should pursue, there might be many learned Gentlemen in this town who would advise them not to present a petition to the House expressing their submission. The question might then arise what redress an individual was to have who was slandered or defamed before a Committee of that House. If a witness gave false evidence before an Election Committee, he was likely to be indicted for perjury; and he did not see why witnesses before other Parliamentary Committees ought not to be equally amenable to the law. It would appear as if the House must in the end allow an action, if a witness gave false and slanderous evidence. In the present case the plaintiff stated, that by the evidence of Parrott, he had been ruined in his profession, in his purse, and in his prospects; and what redress could he obtain? He thought it would be better to discharge the order for attendance, and he should have been pleased if all the parties had been mentioned in the Resolution discharging Mr. Phillips.
 Mr. Granger  observed, that to him the debate had been very unsatisfactory. He feared that their course to-night would teach the public that if a man were bold enough to stand at their bar and defy them, the House would shrink from proceeding against him.
 Mr. Granger  said, that he could not agree with the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland, who said that it was inexpedient to call the attorney to the bar until he was prepared to state that he would make a submission to the House. There was no doubt that bringing an action, under the circumstances of this case, was a breach of the privileges of this House, and as they had already dealt with the principal in the action, he did not see why they should not have the attorney at the bar. He thought the most dignified course to pursue was to call in the attorney at once, and if he were prepared for submission, then they might postpone any further proceedings till to-morrow.
 Mr. Greene  wished to ask the Speaker a question in reference to the point, as to whether a verbal apology at the bar was or was not sufficient to entitle a party to the indulgence of the House. He apprehended that a party standing at the bar, and there stating, in the presence of the House, that he regretted the course which he had taken, and praying the indulgence of the House, would adopt a course sufficient to maintain the privileges of the House, and that the House might act upon such a statement. If the parties were called to the bar, and were disposed to make such statement and application to the House, he apprehended that such would, in the present instance, be sufficient, without calling upon the parties to petition. Such a course would be quite sufficient to maintain the privileges of the House.
 Mr. Redington  was satisfied the hon. Baronet, in bringing forward this Amendment, did not wish to throw any aspersion upon the religious creed of Catholics; but that he was merely introducing what he considered an essential safeguard in a measure of this nature. He must say, however, that if this Amendment went to a division, he would feel it his duty to vote against it; for the introduction of such a test as that proposed by the hon. Gentleman would excite great dissatisfaction among the Roman Catholics of Ireland.
 Mr. Redington  denied that the Roman clergy were opposed to the use of the Scriptures. With respect to the present clause, although it was not framed altogether in the way in which he wished, yet he would oppose the Amendment, and give his support to the clause.
 Mr. Redington  said, he would wish to know whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce any measure for the registration of voters in Ireland, and also for an Amendment of the Municipal Corporations Bill in that coun-
 83
 Mr. Wakley  said, they had settled the matter with the principal; but the lawyer, who was the real sinner, was then in the lobby. The unfortunate Phillips had acted, no doubt, under the advice of his solicitor. With regard to him the proceeding was at an end, he having declared that he would abandon his action. All that the attorney could do was to show his contempt for their authority. If Edwards were called in that evening, he
 95
 Mr. Wyse  must again assert that the Roman Catholic clergy took pains in circulating the Scriptures. In proof of this, he need only refer to the advertisement, which he had just read to the House, from R. Coyne, a Roman Catholic bookseller, advertising "the cheapest Bible ever published," the circulation of which was recommended by several Roman Catholic bishops.
 Mr. Wyse  had no doubt that, with the marked zeal which the Catholic hierarchy and clergy had in the worst of times provided for the spiritual wants of their flocks—a zeal which he could not so far wrong them as to suppose for an instant could be abated—they would be eager to make immediate provision, with the generous co-operation of the laity, which could not be better given than in such a cause, not only for chaplains in their respective halls, but for those professorships of religion in that ample sense to which he had just referred, embracing not doctrine only, and its important scriptural and traditional evidences, but its history and historic influences upon every age and generation. He believed, that at no period were the Catholic clergy more animated by the deep and sacred convictions of the necessity of religious instruction and teaching. It was, he knew, the fashion in other places, he was sorry to add at times also in that House, to represent the Catholic hierarchy
 107 Dublin, Evening Post "That they were assembled, not alone upon a subject of pounds, shillings, and pence, but upon one of principle—upon the principle upon which the Church was based at the time of the Reformation, when they separated from the Romish Church — the principle of giving to all classes a free access to the word of God, which their Society would diffuse, and which it was necessary to the existence of the Church of Rome to suppress." Nation, "The cheapest Catholic Bible of the size ever published. Richard Coyne, 4, Capelstreet, has published in twelve parts, at 6 d. 108 "This new edition of the English Version of the Bible, printed, with our permission, by Richard Coyne, 4, Capel-street, collated by our direction, with the Clementine Vulgate; likewise, with the Douay Version of the Old Testament of 1609, and with the Rhemish Version of the New Testament of 1582, and with the other approved English Versions, we, by our authority, approve. And we declare that the same may be used with great spiritual profit by the faithful; provided it be read with the due reverence and the proper dispositions.—Given at Dublin, 2nd September, 1829." "My dear Friends—As the united Catholic bishops of Ireland have especially recommended the faithful under their jurisdiction, 'to read with due reverence and proper dispositions the Holy Bible published by R. Coyne,' and as he now proposes to issue the Divine Volume under the same authority, in twelve parts, at 6 d.
 Mr. D. Dundas  had more than once felt that they were proceeding against the rules of natural justice. Here was a man standing without counsel or help before an assembly of this kind; in the case cited by the right hon. Baronet, that of "Gee and Kemp," the party rebelling against the authority of the House was furnished with counsel. In the present case they were not acting according to justice; they called on this unlearned person at the bar to explain the meaning of legal declarations, and asked him other questions which many learned Gentlemen in that House would find it difficult to answer. In the case cited, the question was referred to a Committee of that House. He believed that Committee was attended by counsel, and on the Report
 92
 Sir G. Grey  said, that as the witness submitted to the House, there was no doubt he would consent to present such a petition; and he suggested the question should be adjourned till to-morrow, to enable such a petition to be prepared.
 Sir James Graham  wished, before the Speaker answered the question put to him, to remind him of what the right hon. Gentleman had most likely not forgotten, that on the first appearance of Howard at the bar of the House, submission was made verbally, and not by petition.
 Sir J. Graham  regretted that the course which he and his Colleagues thought it their duty to pursue, did not meet with the approbation of the hon. and gallant Gentleman. The Bill, however, was one of great importance, and not brought forward without a strong sense of its necessity. He thanked the hon. Gentleman for curtailing the observations be had intended to make, and for abstaining from a discussion of the general principles of the mea-
 105 "And that religious teachers recognised by the governing body, may, with the consent of the governing body, and the consent of the Crown having been previously obtained, have the use of such rooms, &c." à fortiori, 106
 Sir J. Graham  said, that he rose to address the House with great pain; but he could assure his hon. Friend that the Government were quite sensible that he was actuated by no unkindness to them; but that, on the contrary, they felt bound to acknowledge the support which he had given them on that Bill—a support which, for many reasons, it must have been painful for him to give. His affectionate regard for his hon. Friend personally, and his respect for his principles, rendered it painful to him to resist his proposition; and if he were not convinced that he could not, consistently with the principle of the Bill, assent to it, nothing would have induced him to offer the opposition which he was compelled to give to the Motion. No man more deeply regretted the discussion of such subjects in that House; but it had been his unfortunate lot, in proposing measures for the last few years, to have given more frequent rise to discussions of that nature than perhaps any other man. He was most anxious to treat the subject with the utmost reverence and
 112 113
 Sir R. Inglis  was surprised that, with the sentiments which had been so well expressed by the right hon. Baronet, he did not come to the same conclusion with his hon. Friend (Sir T. Acland). He was happy to find before the House a proposition which he could support, as he did that of his hon. Friend, involving at least some improvement in the present measure.
 Sir R. Inglis  did not feel satisfied with the statement of the parties that they had acted in ignorance, because he saw in their declarations a most studied avoidance of any reference to the source whence they obtained their information.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, as he understood it, the suggestion was that the witness should be recalled, and on stating his regret for having offended the House, and his willingness to withdraw the action, he should be released. But he agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Bath, that the House was bound to proceed much further with respect to the two gentlemen who had framed the declaration. It was perfectly clear that the action was brought in respect to evidence given under the protection of that House; and such evidence was essential if they meant to discharge any functions of inquiry at all. So far he was perfectly willing to support the privileges of the House. On a repetition of the expression of regret for having violated the privileges of the House, and a formal renunciation of the action, the witness might be discharged.
 Sir R. Inglis  thought that it would be better, if the House determined to release Mr. Phillips, that he should be brought to the bar for that purpose immediately, as his detention till to-morrow would cause him considerable inconvenience and injury. At the same time, he doubted whether they ought to terminate their inquiry on the mere expression of Mr. Phillips's regret, and without being prepared to act with respect to the other parties also.
 Sir Robert Inglis  was well satisfied that his noble Friend (Lord John Russell) had withdrawn from the further consideration of the House his Ecclesiastical Courts Bill. He trusted that the House would correctly understand his right hon. Friend (Sir Robert Peel) when he had stated that he was favourable to the principle of the noble Lord's Bill, inasmuch as he had himself introduced a similar measure to the House on a former occasion. Now he wished to remind the right hon. Baronet that the Bill which they had received, not indeed from his hand, but from his Government, was a Bill much less objectionable in its provisions than the analogous Bill of his noble Friend opposite. He hoped, therefore, that the right hon. Baronet would explain to the House that he would not adopt the noble Lord's Bill instead of his own.
 Sir R. Peel  said, Her Majesty's Government had very maturely considered the alterations which it would be desirable to have made in the state of the Ecclesiastical Courts; and they had accordingly brought a measure before Parliament, which had been assented to—he would not say by a very large majority, but by a majority of the House on the second reading. He should state that he preferred that Bill to the second Bill, now pending; and in stating that he was ready to vote with the noble Lord in favour of the second reading, he did not consider that he was adopting the measures of the noble Lord, in preference to the first Bill.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, it was distinctly stated by him, at a very early period of the Session, that he was anxious to introduce certain measures relating to Ireland, among which he wished that the Bill for the improvement of Maynooth, and the Irish Colleges Bill, should have precedence. A week would probably elapse before the latter Bill would leave that House, and under those circumstances, and considering how the Session had been occupied, he did not think the hon. Gentleman had a right to complain of any want of attention in the present Session to Irish measures. The right hon. Baronet was understood to add, that it was the wish of Her Majesty's Government that the Irish Municipal bodies should be placed upon the same footing as the English corporations.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he could not at present fix a day for that purpose. The House should recollect that the tax alluded to by the hon. Member was not a tax imposed by Government, but a tax for effecting local improvements in certain parts of the metropolis.
 Sir R. Peel  was inclined to agree with the suggestions of the noble Lord opposite; he thought it must be evident to every one that the witness who had appeared at the bar was not very competent to judge what was a question of privilege. He understood the witness to say that he was not cognizant of the privileges of the House, nor had he intended to infringe them. The House had sufficient evidence before it to come to the conclusion that the witness was aware he had committed an error, and was sorry for it. He thought substantial justice would be done if the witness, being apprised that this was not the way to attempt to obtain redress, should consent to withdraw the action, and the House should receive his acknowledgment that it was commenced in error; the House would afford the witness an opportunity of substantiating his case if it thought what had been stated before the Committee was false.
 Sir R. Peel  said, the Bill had been referred to a Select Committee of the House of Lords, and until it came forth from that Committee, it was impossible that he could say what course the Government would pursue with respect to it.
 Sir R. Peel  said, the Bill was in the nature of a continuous Bill, and should therefore be brought on.
 Sir R. Peel  said: Sir, perhaps it may be the most convenient course if, in moving the Order of the Day, I fulfil the promise which I have made, to state with respect to those legislative measures which are of the greatest importance the course which Her Majesty's Government proposes to pursue, seeing the very advanced period of the Session, and the great mass of public business yet to be discharged. Before I allude to the Bills under the consideration of the House, or likely to come from the House of Lords, I will answer a question put to me a few days since in respect to those measures connected with railway legislation which have immediate relation to the Board of Trade. It will be recollected, the Government promised that, availing ourselves of the experience of Committees on Railways in the course of the Session, we would maturely consider the relation in which that department stands to railways, and that if we had any modifications to suggest either in the constitution of the Board, or in the nature of the functions it has to perform, we would indicate them at a sufficiently early period to enable the House to adopt any proceedings that might be thought necessary. In the course of the present week, therefore, either I or my right hon. Friend the Vice President of the Board of Trade, will lay on the Table of the House a Minute of the Board of Trade, stating the alterations that we think desirable to have made in the functions that were last year suggested it should undertake with respect to Railway Bills. I believe the general purport of the Minute will be to continue the Board as the guardian of the public interests, giving it a power to report whether any particular
 75 76 77 78 79 Member: Berkeley: Collett: 80 M. Bellew: Shaw:
 Sir R. Peel  said, there was one case so much in point, that the House ought to be aware of it. It occurred in the reign of William III., when a person named Gee prosecuted certain individuals for petitioning the House, and in their petition making allegations against his character. The matter was heard, and Gee alleged by his counsel that what he had done he had done in ignorance; when he found the question was taken notice of by the House, he ceased his action; but, notwithstanding that submission, the House voted it a breach of its privileges, and gave him in custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms.
 Sir R. Peel  would repeat that he thought they were entering into a very unworthy contest with the attorneys in the cause, as they had got a sufficient apology from the principal; and if any inducement were wanting to desist from proceeding further in the matter, it now appeared that an apology in a proper form was to be given immediately by the attorneys.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that what those parties were prepared to do could not for a moment enter into his mind so as to influence the course which he should recommend to the House; and he, therefore, could not feel the more inclined to call them to the bar, because the House had an assurance that they were sorry. It would be a shabby course, if they called in those parties, because, forsooth, they knew that they would express their sorrow at the bar for the course which they had adopted with respect to this action.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that they had received the declaration of the plaintiff, to the effect that he would not go on with the action; and after that declaration, it was quite clear the attorney could not proceed. All that the attorney could do in the case was to express his contrition for having undertaken the action, and after that expression of contrition, the question for the House to entertain was, whether or not the expression of his contrition was to be received as sufficient. He thought they had properly disposed of the case of the principal; but he was not so clear in his opinion as to the course recommended of entering into a contest with the attorney, as the case could not now go on, the principal having expressed his intention of not proceeding further with it.
 Sir R. Peel  moved the following Resolution:—
 "That in consideration that David Phillips has in his Petition, presented to this House, disclaimed all intention to violate its Privileges in the commencement of the said Action; and has expressed his contrition for his offence, and prayed the lenient consideration of the House for the same, and declared his intention not to proceed further in the said Action, this House does not deem it to be necessary to take any further steps for the punishment of the said offence."
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the proposition of the hon. Baronet was simply a precaution against infidelity. But was infidelity an evil in Ireland, against which it was necessary for them to legislate? He did not believe there was a country in the world in which the charge of infidelity would expose a man to such reprobation as in Ireland. But take the case of England. Was infidelity an evil in England at the present day? He did not believe that in England, or in Ireland, infidelity was an evil against which it was necessary that Parliament should legislate. There could not be a doubt that the Crown would grossly neglect its duty in first appointing any person to an office in these Colleges against whom the charge of propagating infidel doctrines could be brought, or, if appointed, in continuing him in his office. It appeared to him, then, that the security it was proposed to give under this Amendment, was a perfectly delusive one, and that the state of religion in these kingdoms was such as to render it unnecessary to take such ground against this measure as that proposed.
 Sir T. Fremantle  thought, that if the noble Lord would read the letter throughout deliberately, he would be able to answer his own question, both with regard to what was meant by a superintending magistrate, and the intentions of Her Majesty's Government. But he would inform the noble Lord, that the Government intended to use every exertion, and all the means which the existing law allowed them, to preserve the public peace in the disturbed districts of Ireland. An additional number of stipendiary magistrates had been appointed to those districts. Ten gentlemen had been directed to meet, in order to concert measures for effectually dealing with the state of affairs, and for dividing the districts and arranging the constabulary force for that purpose. It was thought desirable that one of the magistrates, Mr. Wilcocks, should act as the superintending magistrate of the county of Leitrim; with whom the resident magistrates, for the purpose of more combined and effectual exertion, should put themselves into communication, Mr. Wilcocks being the organ and channel of communication between them and the Government. The plan was similar to that which was adopted some years ago in reference to the county of Tipperary. It was not intended that Mr. Wilcocks should have any authority over the other magistrates. As to the intentions of Her Majesty's Government, if the noble Lord would put his question more explicitly, he should be able, perhaps, to answer it more fully. But the Government was determined to use all the power they possessed, and they hoped successfully, to restore order and tranquillity in those districts where outrages had lately taken place.
 Sir T. Wilde  inquired whether there was any matter of complaint in the declaration, except the statement made by Mr. Parrott before a Committee of that House?
 Sir T. Wilde  then moved—
 "That it appears to this House that the Action brought by David Phillips against Jaspar Parrott, Esq. is brought in respect of the Evidence given by Mr. Parrott before a Committee of this House."
 Sir T. Wilde  suggested the expediency of allowing the attorney until to-morrow to present a petition, if he thought fit. At all events, whether he came prepared to make his peace or not, the House would be in a better position to-morrow to deal with the case. He moved an Amendment accordingly.
 Sir T. Wilde  said, that in this case the attorney could not go on without the consent of the plaintiff. There were cases in which the attorney might proceed to save his costs, when there was collusion between the plaintiff and defendant, to
 96 bonâ fide
 Sir T. Wilde  said, that the Resolution discharging Phillips was directed only to him, because no other parties were then before them. There was a very great difference between the evidence of an individual before a Committee of that House,
 97
 Sir T. Wilde  apprehended that the noble Lord was quite right in suggesting that the other party should not be called immediately in. They had resolved that the commencement of the action was a breach of privilege. They had also an acknowledgment by the attorney, who presented a petition, that he was the party who had brought the action, and he stated his reasons for bringing it. Therefore there was no doubt but that he was guilty of a breach of privilege. The only thing in which he differed from the noble Lord was, that they should now come to a resolution that their privileges had been infringed, and then adjourn the matter over till to-morrow. In order to avoid placing themselves in a situation of being compelled to act, they should give the parties an opportunity of presenting a petition, and making their peace with the House. [An hon.  Member: 99
 Sir T. Wilde  said, he would be prepared to move a Resolution to the effect that it was made apparent to the House that Mr. Phillips had brought an action on evidence given before a Committee of that House, and that his having done so was a breach of privilege. He believed that a petition
 93
 Sir T. Wilde  hoped he should not be thought one who disregarded the privileges of that House; he wished to keep a broad distinction between the questions, whether parties should be allowed to submit to the courts of law the privileges of that House, and what the House might think proper to do on a complaint made to it by parties thinking themselves injured by matter published under its authority; these two questions were quite distinct from each other. Considering the present state of the question of Parliamentary privilege, it struck him that it would be unbecoming in the House suddenly to take up a case with the strong hand; after the late discussion on this subject a reasonable doubt might be entertained as to what would break the privileges of the House, and what would not. The House might well be satisfied with bringing the party to the bar, and warning him that this was a case involving a breach of its privileges, accepting his apology and offer to stay proceedings, rather than at once proceed against other parties or the attorneys. He thought the witness had given a sufficient indication of his desire to submit to the decision of the House; they had a statement that at a subsequent time the House would give him an opportunity of obtaining justice with regard to his character. But at the present moment the question before the House was whether this individual was guilty of a breach of the privileges of the House, whether he had done so knowingly, and whether he was inclined now to submit respectfully to the authority of the House? He thought, from the manner in which the witness had conducted himself, that he was willing to submit to the authority of the House; he entirely gave up his action. He thought they had better accept his submission, and for the present pass the subject by, because this revival of the authority of the House might be an example to others who would come before them with much less ground for excuse than the individual then in attendance; therefore, allowing the question suggested to be put by the Speaker, would be the best course for the dignity of the House. If they thought fit, they might afterwards call in the attorney, but they had better first dispose of the individual before them. With respect to the attorney, he could not proceed after his
 90
 Viscount Bernard  said, that it was notorious that the Roman Catholic clergy, in
 109
 Viscount Clements  alluded to a letter read by the Marquis of Headfort at a meeting held in Ireland last week, of which the following was a part:—
 " Dublin Castle, July "My Lord—I am directed by the Lord Lieutenant to state, for the information of your Lordship and the magistrates of the county of Cavan, in reference to the resolutions of a former meeting of the magistrates of the county, communicated to his Excellency by the Lord Farnham, that his Excellency has appointed Mr. Wilcocks to be superintending magistrate of the county of Leitrim and its borders, and that the following resident magistrates have been directed to place themselves in immediate communication with him for the purpose of more combined and effectual exertion towards the suppression of outrage; and
 84
 Viscount Howick  believed the witness was disposed to yield to the authority of the House; but he confessed he had a great objection to the suggested mode of proceeding—that of calling the witness in person to the bar, and asking him whether he was prepared to make that submission. The very fact of the House asking such a question would, in many cases, rather invite resistance. The more proper course would be, that the House should come to a Resolution declaring that the parties aggrieved by evidence given before a Committee of that House or at its bar, instead of seeking redress by an appeal to a court of law, should be bound to seek redress by applying for protection to that House. If this gentleman was aggrieved by such evidence, he ought to have petitioned the House for permission to proceed against the person giving the evidence in a court of law; or the House might have appointed a Committee to inquire into the justice of the complaint. But if they permitted legal proceedings to be instituted in the first instance, inquiry before a Committee would be nugatory. Having come to such a Resolution, they could adjourn further proceedings with respect to this party till he thought proper to petition them, withdrawing his action, and appealing to the House for redress. The moment such a petition
 91
 Viscount Howick  observed that all that now remained to be done was that the House should come to the same resolution as it had come to in the case of Mr. Phillips, and state that, in consideration that Charles Edwards, Thomas Baker, and others, had, in the petition presented by them, disclaimed all intention of violating the privileges of that House, and had expressed their contrition for their offence, and prayed for the lenient consideration of the House; on account of the same, the House did not deem it necessary to take any further steps for the punishment of the said offence. He begged, therefore, to move that Resolution; and he would not prolong the discussion further, except to state, that nothing could be a more complete misapprehension of his views than what was stated by the hon. Member for Durham (Mr. Granger) when he observed that he (Lord Howick) and others were disposed to shrink from asserting the privileges of the House. He was disposed to maintain the privileges of the House.
 Viscount Howick  stated that he had not said one word bearing the remotest approach to what the hon. Member (Mr. Granger) had attributed to him. What he said was, that the true mode of proceeding was, for the party to present a petition, expressing his submission, as, by asking him if he would submit, the House would invite refusal.
 Viscount Howick  was in favour of postponing any further proceedings until tomorrow. It would, in his opinion, be exceedingly impolitic to call the parties to the bar before they knew whether they were prepared to make concessions or not.
 Mr. J. H. Vivian  moved that the Report be considered on Friday next.
 Captain Berkeley  thought that they should net depart from the usual course of proceeding, namely, of taking the Reports on Railway Bills into consideration on Tuesdays.
 Mr. Vivian  said, his Motion went no further than that the Report should be taken into consideration on Friday instead of on Tuesday; and he did not think, therefore, that it could be seriously objected to at the present advanced period of the Session.
 Mr. C. Berkeley  said, he was now, as he had been when the petition of the plaintiffs was presented, only anxious for the fullest inquiry. He desired the attendance of the parties in question, only because he thought that the plaintiffs' counsel would be able to prejudice the case in the eyes of the jury, if the powerful shield of that House appeared to be thrown over one of its Members. With regard to the case itself, he could assure the House that he was no more conscious of his name having been inserted in the Act of Parliament as a director of the company, than any other hon. Member of that House. As the question was now a judicial one, he would, however, add no more upon it.
 Lord Granville Somerset  said, any delay in Railway Bills was most material at this advanced period of the Session; and in the present instance if the Motion of the hon. Member were not acceded to, the effect would be that a most important railway would be delayed for another Session.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, when the petition was presented the other night, he was opposed to it, only because he thought that what was sought to be proved could be proved by other means than the attendance of the officers of the House. As the hon. Member for Cheltenham, however, feared that the withholding these witnesses might prejudice his case, he saw no reason why the House should not alter its decision.
 Mr. E. Buller  brought up the Report on the South Wales Railway, and the Monmouth and Hereford Railway Bills.
 Mr. Shaw  said, he would have abstained, and particularly at that late hour, from saying a word upon the subject, but for two incorrect statements, having reference to the University of Dublin, which he desired to correct. The first was, that the original charter, by Queen Elizabeth, did not contemplate any distinctions in the religious creed of the students to be educated at Trinity College; but the reverse was the fact, for not only would such an interpretation be opposed to the whole tenor of the policy of those times, but the 2nd Eliz., chap. 1, expressly enacted that "all and every person or persons which shall be preferred to any degree of learning in any University, shall, before being preferred to such degree, take and receive the Oath of Supremacy." And, in fact, no Roman Catholic was permitted to graduate before 1793. The hon. Gentleman was in error, in averring, that the Act of Settlement had enacted that a College should be annexed to the University of Dublin, in addition to the College of the Holy Trinity; whereas the Act of Settlement only enabled the Crown, if it thought fit, to add another College, and to endow it from the restored lands, but not from the estates of Trinity College. He would object to such a course practically—not only on account of the great difficulties connected with the vested property and rights of Trinity College—but
 226
 Mr. G. W. Hope  wished to say a few words in answer to what had fallen from his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford, and at that late hour of the night they would be but few. His hon. Friend had spoken of purchasing slaves for the purpose of emancipating them. He had, indeed, acquitted the Government of Trinidad on this subject; but he ought to have said that when proposals of the kind were made, they were met by a most decided negative. The British Government had objected to any proposal that might be so abused; and the noble Lord under whom he served was of opinion that the purchase of slaves in this way might virtually encourage the Slave Trade, under the pretence of free emigration, and the great body of the West Indians had never advocated any course laying them open to such a charge. The more immediate object of the observations of the hon. Baronet was the treatment of liberated Africans at Sierra Leone; and this very day, he (Mr. Hope) had had an opportunity of conversing with a lieutenant of the Navy, who had been engaged in the service: the account he gave did not lead him (Mr. Hope) to assent to the facts, much less to the deductions, of the hon. Baronet. It was undoubtedly the opinion of the Government that liberated slaves could be settled more satisfactorily to themselves in the West Indies than at Sierra Leone. On this point he might refer also to the statements of the Governor of Sierra Leone, himself a man of colour, and to the information derived from the members of the Mixed Commission. Hence it appeared, that at Sierra Leone the negroes worked at a low rate of wages, and although they had some means of education and spiritual instruction, they enjoyed none of the advantages possessed by the negroes in the West Indies. If not a slave, he was a mere drudge. To the same effect he might read an extract of a letter from Mr. Hooke, the Secretary to the Mixed Commission, who added that the liberated negroes often became wanderers among the mountains near Sierra
 220
 Mr. Labouchere  said, he had only a
 137
 Mr. Warburton  moved that the Order of the Day be read for the consideration of the petition of Captain Craven Berkeley relative to the East India Steam Ship Company Bill, and the action brought against him by Mr. Scott. The hon. Member presented the petition from the gallant Captain, praying that the House would allow its officers to attend a trial, in which he was defendant, in the Court of Common Pleas, and moved that the prayer of the petition be complied with.
 Mr. Sheil  said, he had no personal connexion with the measure, but as an Irish Member connected more particularly with the south of Ireland, he felt a very great interest in the advancement of his country generally, and more especially with that portion of it to which he more immediately belonged. He believed the interests of Ireland would be materially promoted by the proposed railway; and he could assure the House that this was the opinion of the Representatives of the south of Ireland generally; and he should, therefore, give his support to the Motion of his hon. Friend. He believed, from the position of the districts through which the proposed railway would pass, and the south of Ireland, that they would be reciprocally benefited by it—that what was for the benefit of South Wales was for the benefit also of Ireland; and, on the other hand, that whatever would benefit Ireland, would, at the same time, benefit South Wales. He would beg to remind Members of Her Majesty's Government that the First Minister of the Crown had stated with reference to an Irish railway, that he would not consent to allow small obstructions to lie in the way of it; and that the interests of Ireland were so deeply involved in the passing of the measure that the Government should exert itself to promote it. He did not mean to say that the Bill now under the consideration of the House was of equal importance with the Irish Bill to which he had alluded; but still he thought it belonged to the same class, and he should, therefore, give it his support.
 Mr. Sheil : Though the right hon. Gentleman entered upon the discussion of a wide range of topics, yet "the old and new lobby" question before the House is narrowed to this point—Why has not the evidence been produced? The right hon. Gentleman dwelt much on the Treaty with the Imaum of Muscat; but it was with much surprise I heard him read the concluding paragraph of that part which he cited as to the transfer of slaves along the coast to Zanzibar. The words I refer to are these:—
 "We beg to state, we have directed the following authorities, viz., the Superintendent of the Indian Navy, the Collector of Customs at Bombay, the Senior Magistrate of Police, and the Resident in the Persian Gulf, immediately to institute a scrutinizing inquiry into the correctness or otherwise of this report; and the result will, as soon as known to this Government, be communicated for the information of your Committee. We have also made a similar reference on this subject to Captain Hamerton, who, as reported in our separate despatch of this date, is now at Bombay, on his way to Zanzibar, in fulfilment of certain instructions with which this Government has been furnished by the Government of India." 204 205 "It is with great satisfaction that I inform you that I have concluded with the Emperor of Austria, the King of the French, the King of Prussia, and the Emperor of Russia, a Treaty for the more effectual suppression of the Slave Trade, which, when the ratifications shall have been exchanged, will be communicated to Parliament." 206 207 208
 Mr. Sheil  inquired of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government what was the number of American vessels over which we had exercised the right of visiting since the Treaty of Washington was signed?
 Mr. Greene  said, it was most necessary that the rules of the House should be observed, because if they were departed from in one instance, they would be interfered with in others.
 Mr. Wyse  moved—
 "That it is the opinion of this House, that whereas the Act of Settlement enacts that a College be annexed to the University of Dublin in addition to the College of the Holy Trinity, under the name and title of King's College, and the Act of 1793 provides that all future Colleges that may be annexed to said University, after the passing of that Act, be open to Roman Catholics and Protestant Dissenters equally with Protestants, in all their honours and emoluments, as well as studies; the Colleges proposed to be founded under the present Bill be annexed to the said University under the conditions which the Act of 1793 prescribes."
 Mr. Baine  was understood to say that he had been requested by Messrs. Scott, the plaintiffs in the action to which the petition referred, to state to the House the facts of this case. In 1840 Messrs. Scott had entered into a contract with the company in question to furnish them with a ship for India, at an expense of 35,000 l. l. 139 l.
 Sir C. Napier  would be glad to know whether any British vessels had been searched by the Americans?
 Sir Charles Napier  entirely agreed with the observations which had fallen from the noble Lord and from the hon. Baronet who had just sat down relative to the first paragraph of the preamble of the Treaty. It was in these words:—
 "Her Majesty the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and His Majesty the King of the French, considering that the Conventions of the 30th of November, 1831, and the 22nd of March, 1833, have effected their object in preventing the use of the English and French flags in carrying on the Slave Trade, but that this odious traffic still exists, and that the said Conventions are insufficient to ensure its complete suppression; His Majesty the King of the French, having expressed his desire to adopt more effectual measures for the suppression of the Slave Trade, than those contemplated in the said Conventions; and Her Majesty the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland being anxious to co-operate for the attainment of this object; they have agreed to conclude a new Convention, which, as between the two high contracting parties, shall be substituted in the place of the abovementioned Conventions of 1831 and 1832; and for that purpose they have named as their Plenipotentiaries, that is to say—" 215 "You are not to capture, visit, or in any way interfere with vessels of France; and you will give strict instructions to the commanding officers of cruisers under your orders to abstain therefrom. At the same time you will remember that the King of the French is far from claiming that the flag of France should give immunity to those who have no right to bear it; and that Great Britain will not allow vessels of other nations to escape visit and examination by merely hoisting a French flag, or the flag of any other nation with which Great Britain has not, by existing Treaty, the Right of Search. Accordingly, when from intelligence which the officer commanding Her Majesty's cruiser may have received, or from the manœuvres of the vessel, or other sufficient cause, he may have reason to believe that the vessel does not belong to the nation indicated by her colours, he is, if the state of the weather will admit of it, to go a-head of the suspected vessel, after communicating his intention by hailing, and to drop a boat on board of her, to ascertain her nationality, without causing her detention, in the event of her really proving to be a vessel
 216 "But should the strength of the wind, or other circumstance, render such mode of visiting the stranger impracticable, he is to require the suspected vessel to be brought to, in order that her nationality may be ascertained; and he will be justified in enforcing it if necessary:—understanding always, that he is not to resort to any coercive measure until every other shall have failed; and the officer who boards the stranger is to be instructed merely in the first instance to satisfy himself by the vessel's papers, or other proof, of her nationality; and if she prove really to be a vessel of the nation designated by her colours, and one which he is not authorized to search, he is to lose no time in quitting her, offering to note on the papers of the vessel the cause of his having suspected her nationality, as well as the number of minutes the vessel was detained (if detained at all) for the object in question; such notation to be signed by the boarding officer, specifying his rank and the name of Her Majesty's cruiser, and whether the commander of the visited vessel consents to such notation on the vessel's papers or not (and it is not to be done without his consent); all the said particulars are to be immediately inserted in the log book of Her Majesty's cruiser, and a full and complete statement of the circumstances is to be sent, addressed to the Secretary of the Admiralty, by the first opportunity, direct to England; and also a similar statement to you as senior officer on the station, to be forwarded by you to our Secretary, accompanied by any remarks you may have reason to make thereon. The commanding officers of Her Majesty's vessels must bear in mind that the duty of executing the instruction immediately preceding, must be discharged with great care and circumspection. For if any injury be occasioned by examination without sufficient cause, or by the examination being improperly conducted, compensation must be made to the party aggrieved; and the officer who may cause an examination to be made without sufficient cause, or who may conduct it improperly, will incur the displeasure of Her Majesty's Government." 217 la Grande Nation, "Treaties for the suppression of the Slave
 218 "Whenever it shall be necessary to employ force, conformably to the law of nations, in order to compel the due execution of any Treaty made in pursuance of the present Convention, no such force shall be resorted to, either by land or sea, without the consent of the commanders, both of the British and of the French squadrons. And if it should be deemed necessary for the attainment of the objects of this Convention, that posts should be occupied on that part of the coast of Africa before described, this shall be done only with the consent of the two high contracting parties." 219
 Captain Pechell  stated, that the right hon. Baronet was completely mistaken as to the benefits which he expected to derive from the Convention. The right hon. Baronet attributed the clamour against the Right of Search in France to the feeling which had been excited against his noble Friend; but this was not the case, for nothing was beard on the subject until
 221
 Sir James Graham  resisted the Amendment, as totally unconnected with the main object of the Bill. He could not believe, indeed, that the hon. Gentleman was serious in pressing his Motion; and, therefore, he should not trouble the House at that hour by entering into the subject.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  thought that the House would admit that his right hon. Friend at the head of the Government could not, even with the largest preparations, have met the statement of the noble Lord opposite, on the general points, more effectually than he had done. But there were one or two points upon which he did not think his right hon. Friend—marvellously perfect as was his information on almost all points—had been successful in meeting the objections of the noble Lord; and he alluded particularly to the preamble of the Convention. It might appear hypercritical on his part, but he could not help feeling that in the diplomatic relations between two great nations, form became substance. Now, there was one expression in the preamble of the Treaty, gratuitously used on the part of England, which might compromise a principle which involved rights which no Statesman, without the deepest consideration, and certainly never without reluctance, would concede to another Power. He felt that the noble Lord opposite, when he called the attention of the House to the terms of the preamble of the Treaty, had urged an objection which was far too well sustained. He did not wish to be misunderstood. Not even the right hon. and learned Member for Dungarvon could entertain
 209 210 R. Peel: 211 "The committee, trusting that this equitable rule will be no longer opposed, and that a British subject will be allowed to obtain, in a fair and honourable way, the labour he may require wherever it can be found, are so convinced of the superiority of the source which Africa presents, that they recommend its being made available, even at a considerable expense, the whole of which, however, would be defrayed by the Colony. It is possible that on that extensive continent a sufficient number of suitable free labourers may be engaged, by which all difficulties will be surmounted. But it may be otherwise; and, instead of waiting until the period of failure arrives, the more prudent course will be to prepare and determine beforehand the measures which in such case should be pursued. The committee, therefore, after seriously considering the whole subject, both in its causes and consequences, presume to advise, if a sufficient number of free labourers are not to be found on the coast of Africa disposed to emigrate to our Colonies, that some of the unhappy persons who are held there in bondage should be purchased and manumitted for that purpose; sincerely believing that such a measure will immediately assure a successful issue to the experiment of free labour, and effect in a short period of time the extinction of the Slave Trade."
 Sir R. Inglis  took the opportunity of suggesting that it would be desirable to make an addition to the Standing Or-
 140
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, towards the close of the speech of the noble Lord, he gave us the very unnecessary information, that it was not his intention to propose any Resolution by which the opinion of the House would be taken as to the policy of the late Treaty with France on the subject of the Slave Trade. Sir, I greatly doubt the soundness of the policy of the noble Lord. If he has a strong opinion upon the subject, I think he ought to have disregarded
 179 180 181 Palmerston: 182 183 Member: "They had learned that slaves were brought to the island of Bourbon, but that there were no exports of slaves; but they had heard of a French ship of war, the commander of which had concluded a Treaty with the Imaum of Muscat, for the purpose of transporting the subjects of the latter as labourers into Bourbon." "Unfortunately, I have not been able to procure a copy of the instrument, but I believe it contains stipulations which take away all pretence for supposing that it involves any infraction of the Treaty entered into between England and the Imaum of Muscat." 184 "My informant states, that under the condition of this Treaty it is probable that the condition of the labourers so hired will be materially improved, as they are to be sent back after a time with the money they may have earned, and perhaps with the knowledge of some trade, and with habits of industry and civilization which will be of great advantage to them afterwards." Palmerston: "The bribes which the authorities of Cuba have for many years received for upholding the Slave Trade of that island have been well known, and have been pointed out to the Government of Spain, and they have been often urged to put a stop to these iniquities. The precise sum given for each slave, the officers among whom it was divided, and the proportion in which it was shared, were notorious. The Spanish Government have not been able to deny those facts, although they have asserted that it has not been from any neglect of duty on the part of the authorities that the Slave Trade was kept up. But it has been proved, that when the Government of Her Catholic Majesty appointed a person of honour and integrity to be Governor of Cuba, and one who undertook the high functions entrusted to him with other views than those of enriching himself and his associates by a corrupt connivance at the crimes which he was appointed to repress, that trade speedily declined, and indeed had almost ceased to exist. A change, however, was made in the government of the island, and the iniquitous traffic is again in full vigour, notoriously encouraged, and almost openly defended, by the man to whom Her
 185 186 Palmerston: 187 188 "The consequence of the decision of the French Government, if it should be final, ap-
 189 "The proposed alterations in themselves were confessedly of little value—" "The proposed alterations in themselves were confessedly of little value; but they became of weight from their origin and from the motives which led to them: what M. Guizot called national susceptibilities as to calumny and injustice, and which we called unfounded imputations." "After the criminations which were made in such an assembly as the Chamber of Deputies of an interested disposition in the course we proposed, if there were only a suspicion entertained, it was impossible they could long be continued; and if they were the consequence of a hostile feeling, it could not be mitigated by concession. At all events, we could not purchase the ratification by these apparent concessions." 190 per se, 191 192 "The French Government had already repeatedly declared its reasons for refusing acquiescence in this proposal, and these reasons had lost none of their weight or importance. The exercise of a Right of Search in the time of peace was essentially contrary to the principle of the French law, and it would wound public opinion in France on a ground on which it was very sensitive." "His Majesty's Government are of opinion that a modified proposition on this subject might be made, which would sufficiently accomplish the object in view, without conflicting too much with the prejudices of the French naval service." "You will therefore propose that instead of establishing a general and permanent Right of Reciprocal Search, that each Government shall furnish to the cruisers of the other employed upon the African station, documents or instructions empowering them to search vessels, not being ships of war, within certain
 193 "If the objections to the Right of Search should, unfortunately, prove insurmountable, that then the French Government should be pressed strongly for some French ships of war being sent, without loss of time to the coast of Africa, to enforce the laws on all vessels bearing the French flag. To this proposition His Majesty's Government could not anticipate any objection; with such a squadron His Majesty's ships would be ordered cordially to co-operate; and that there was no reason to doubt that the united efforts of France and England, so exerted, would accomplish the object to which the two countries had mutually bound themselves by solemn engagements." 194 Senegambia Marie Anne. 195 Palmerston; C. Napier: 196 197 "Her Majesty the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and His Majesty the King of the French, considering that the Conventions of the 30th of November, 1831, and the 22nd of March, 1833, have effected their object in preventing the use of the English and French flags in carrying on the Slave Trade, but that this odious traffic still exists, and that the said Conventions are insufficient to ensure its complete suppression, His Majesty the King of the French having expressed his desire to adopt more effectual measures for the suppression of the Slave Trade than those contemplated in the said Conventions; and Her Majesty the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland being anxious to co-operate for the attainment of this object, they have agreed to conclude a new Convention." 198 "That the care thereof shall be committed to English and French cruisers, jointly or separately, as may be deemed most expedient, provided always, that in case of a station being specially committed to the charge of cruisers of either nation, the cruisers of the other nation may, at any time, enter the same for
 199 Palmerston: 200 201 202 203
 Sir R. Peel  was not aware of any instance in which that had occurred; no doubt if suspicious circumstances arose, the Right of Search would be exercised.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the number of vessels visited had been very considerable. He trusted, however, that the right hon. Gentleman would not require a specification of the exact number, when he informed him that the right of visiting had been exercised in every case where a vessel had excited a reasonable suspicion. He was happy to be able to add, that the exercise of that right had hitherto not led to any injurious consequences, nor had it provoked any ill-feeling on the part of any portion of the American squadron which had acted in co-operation with us. Perhaps the House would allow him to read the two latest communications received by the Government from the coast of Africa; one as to a case where the Right of Search was exercised by a British cruiser alone, after the signing of the Treaty of Washington, and the other where there was a co-operation between the combined English and American squadrons. The first letter was as follows:—
 Viscount Howick  said, he was exceedingly averse to applying favours to one Railway Bill which were not extended to others; but though he knew nothing of the particular merits of the South Wales line, he would say generally, that he thought railways ought to get particular indulgence this Session. The House required the promoters of all lines to lay their plans in the first instance before the Railway Department of the Board of Trade, and suspended all proceedings upon the Bills until the Reports of the Board were made. They thus threw back all the railway schemes for a full month of the Session later than they might other wise have been brought forward, and he thought that circumstance ought to induce them now to show some indulgence to the promoters of these schemes in enabling them to have their Bills passed. He did not think that any substantial injury or injustice would be done by acceding to the Motion before the House, and he was, therefore, disposed to vote in favour of it. He should, however do so only on the understanding that a similar indulgence would be extended to other Railway Bills.
 Viscount Palmerston  then rose to move—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, that She will be graciously pleased to give directions that there be laid before this House a Return of the Names and Description of the Witnesses examined before the Mixed British and French Commission, appointed to inquire into the best means for suppressing the Slave Trade; and Extracts of such parts of their Evidence as relate to the value of a mutual Right of Search as a means for the Suppression of the Slave Trade." 143 144 145 146 147 148 149 150 151 152 153 154 "To the very inferior sailing qualities of several of our cruisers must be attributed the escape of so many slavers, particularly from the coast between Gambia and Cape Coast Castle. Her Majesty's steamer  Soudan, Albert, 155 Kites Racers, Lightnings Comets, Growlers, Ardents, Thunderers, 156 157 158 159 160 161 "If I made such a proposal to England, it would be one which I have no right to make, and which would be met with a peremptory denial: to be so met would be a humiliation, and I will not expose myself and the French Government to be so humbled by a Foreign Government." 162 163 164 165 166 "Large unwieldy boats, without a deck. In these temporary platforms are erected, leaving a narrow passage in the centre. The negroes are then stowed in bulk, the first tier being laid along the floor of the vessel, two adults, side by side, with a boy or girl resting between and upon them, until the tier is complete. Over them the first platform is laid, separated—" "Over them (Sir T. Buxton proceeds) the first platform is laid separated but an inch or two from their bodies, when the second tier is stowed in the same manner, and so on, until they reach the gunwale of the vessel. They calculate that the voyage will not exceed twenty-four, or, at the farthest, forty-eight hours." "It often happens that a calm, or unexpected land-breeze, delays their progress; in this case a few hours are sufficient to decide the fate of the cargo; those of the lower portion of the cargo that die cannot be removed They remain until the upper part are dead and thrown over, and, from a cargo of from 200 to to 400 stowed in this way, it has been known that not a dozen, at the expiration of ten days, have reached Zanzibar." 167 "I agree to that; I make a great sacrifice of revenue by consenting to abolish the Slave Trade with the countries bordering on the Red Sea; but do not ask me to give up the Slave Trade that comes coastwise along the shore." "To give up that trade would be more than, with my pecuniary losses, I could bear; and I pray you not to press the request." R. Peel: 168 "On the arrival of the vessels at Zanzibar, the cargoes are landed; those that can walk up the beach are arranged for the inspection of the Imaum's Officer, and the payment of duties—those that are weak or maimed by the voyage are left for the coming tide to relieve their miseries." 169 "The Officers of Her Majesty the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ire-
 170 "Her Majesty the Queen of the United
 171 "Her Majesty the Queen of the United Kingom of Great Britain and Ireland, and His Majesty the King of the French, mutually engage to continue the prohibition for ever of all Slave Trade in the Colonies which they possess, or may hereafter possess; and also to prevent, as far as the laws of each country shall permit, their respective subjects from being engaged, directly or indirectly, in this traffic." 172 173 Emancipados 174 175 176 177 "Rarò antecedentem scelestum Deseruit pede pæna claudo." 178
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that he had very few observations to make in reply to what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet. The right hon. Gentleman had stated that, from his position in the Government, and from the great labour which he had to perform, it was difficult for him to reply entirely on the moment to observations which might be made on such a subject as the present. It arose from the present constitution of the Administration, as the Foreign Department had no representative in that House; and it was impossible for a Member of the Cabinet to send a copy of his speech, or even the heads of what he meant to say to the right hon. Baronet two or three days beforehand;
 222 223
 Mr. Williams  also concurred in the principle of the Bill, but regretted that a measure of such importance should not have been introduced at an earlier period of the Session. He also trusted that the parties to whom reference had been made, would be adequately protected, as far as
 227
 Lord J. Russell : I am sure it can hardly be necessary to argue further upon this question; but I do request the House, now that they are able to extricate themselves from it, not to be involved in the humiliating dilemma in which Her Majesty's Government would place them. Hitherto it has been supposed that these matters of education, of religious establishment, of religious tests, were matters of principle, one way or the other. Men who took the view that they were necessary for the maintenance of religion, and useful for the benefit of the State, like the hon. Member for Oxford University (Sir R. Inglis), steadily upheld them; other
 273 a laugh 274 275 276 277
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  was anxious that Ministers should pledge themselves to resist what was now required, because he was sure from experience that very soon after they had pledged themselves upon any question they gave way. If they now pledged themselves to maintain the absurd exclusions of the Bill of 1829, he had more than a hope that they would abandon them in the next Session. The truth was, that the clauses had only been inserted to satisfy the conscience of that exemplary, religious, and moral monarch, George IV.; and his reign being at an end, people could now consider what they were really worth. The onus was upon the opponents of the Bill to show that these outrageous laws should remain on the Statute Book, which could not be enforced. He hoped that his hon. Friend would go to a division, to see who was for and who was against it. His own opinion was, that all restrictions upon religious belief were as unjust to men as they were insulting to God.
 Mr. Liddell  complained that not one Member of the Government was present on this occasion. The point on which he wished to get some information was, whether parties who had embarked large sums in private Lunatic Asylums, all of which were conducted with great care, skill, and humanity, would be injuriously affected by the Bill. He highly approved of the principle of the Bill; but he hoped it would not be allowed to operate injuriously to those parties to whom he referred.
 Mr. James S. Wortley  regretted that no Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House rose to reply to the speech of the right hon. Baronet. It might seem strange, that after the triumphant answer of his right hon. Friend [ cheers 253
 Lord John Russell  considered that the Bill involved two very separate questions. The first was, whether they should consider with a view to their repeal certain ancient enactments. On this part of the subject, after what had fallen from both the right hon. Gentlemen opposite, the House should be satisfied with their declarations. It certainly would at that moment be difficult for the Government to say what clauses of the Bill of the hon. and learned Gentleman should be repealed; he therefore would suggest that this part of the subject be left to them. The other question was of a very different character; he alluded to that part which referred not to any old restrictions, but to those imposed by the Act of 1829, he meant the disallowing clauses in the Bill, introduced by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government. The question was, whether they were prepared to make alterations in this law. This subject might have been referred to the consideration of the Commissioners, or it might, without this, have been considered by the Government as a question of policy, in the Amendment of the law of 1829. They had done neither, however. They now stated that there would be no reference to this Act in the measure they intended to propose. He, for one, was prepared to go into Committee on those clauses of the Act of 1829. He did not say that he was at once prepared to repeal all those clauses, but he was willing to go into Committee to deliberate on the subject. He believed that they might repeal those disallowing clauses which prevented a Roman Catholic bishop assuming a title held by a bishop of the Established Church. He could not conceive any good ground for the continuance of this restriction. With respect to the question of the Jesuits and the regular orders, he did not think that the Act of 1829 was satisfactory; but he should like to look into the laws of other countries in Europe; and above all, into those of Catholic countries, on the subject of these religious orders. As a general principle, he should say, do away with all these restrictions; but if they found that in Catholic countries there were some regulations as to the registration of the members of an order, or similar restraint, he should say that it was a fair subject
 291
 Mr. Pringle : The difference between the Roman Catholic Church and the Protestant Church is a difference of essentials; while that between the Episcopal Church and the Presbyterian Church of Scotland, is not a difference of essentials.
 Mr. Pringle  hoped the House would reject this Bill, which, he believed, if passed, would be most injurious, if not wholly ruinous, to the Universities and the interests of education in Scotland. These tests had existed in the Universities of Scotland from a period coeval almost with the foundation of the Universities themselves. Episcopalians themselves, such as Sir Daniel Sandford, had not objected to take them, and there was no reason why members of the Free Church should refuse subscription. Only those would be excluded by their operation who refused to pledge themselves that they would not use their powers or privileges to the prejudice or subversion of the Church of Scotland. The General Assembly of the Church of Scotland had petitioned the Legislature in the strongest terms against the Bill. The Free Church, and many other religious denominations in Scotland, had established educational institutions for the instruction of persons of their own communion; and, if this Bill were adopted, the Established Church of Scotland would be the only ecclesiastical establishment in that country which would be denied the privilege of possessing academical institutions for the education of its members. He called upon hon. Gentlemen to reflect what would be the result of adopting this measure. At present the patronage connected with the University of Edinburgh was vested in the Town Council, which had the power of appointing the professors, subject to the control of the Act of Parliament imposing the existing tests; but, if those tests were abolished, every election would probably give rise to a contest between the two parties in the Church, in which the students of the University would necessarily be involved. He also entertained strong objections to this measure on the ground that it would materially affect the whole system of education in Scotland. The system of national education in that country had been mainly, if not solely, originated by the Established Church; and the result showed how faithfully that Establishment had, in this respect, discharged its duties; but the adoption of the Bill now before the House would, in his opinion, be most injurious to the extension of education in Scotland. On these grounds, he hoped
 260
 Mr. Bickham Escott  felt disposed to oppose the Bill, because the Government had asked time for the consideration of the subject, so as to bring in a measure. He believed that the Bill was founded on the principles of justice and sound policy; and he considered the Acts alluded to, to be a disgrace to the Statute Book. If he heard that it was the intention of Her Majesty's Ministers to do away with those enactments on account of religion, he would not vote for the Motion; but if that was not the case, he should give it his cordial support.
 Mr. C. Buller  said, when he recollected the proud eminence on which the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken stood in the eyes of the country on account of the singular sacrifice he had made of interest to conscience in the course of the present Session, he was prepared to expect somewhat more clear principles of morality from his lips. He could scarcely conceive a test more grating to the conscientious feelings and the honest pride of an honourable man, than that which the hon. Gentleman would keep up, and for having taken which, for the purpose of obtaining a professorship, the member of another church than the Presbyterian Church of Scotland was now defended. The right hon. Gentleman and the hon. Member for Selkirkshire contended that this test did not operate as an exclusion; but what, he asked, could tend more to keep out the members of another church from those professorships, than to extort from them a declaration that they practised the worship of a Church to which they did not belong? A man might, perhaps, as in the case of Sir D. Sandford, feel himself justified, by the usages of society, and the lax tone of morals around him, in making the required declaration, though he was a member of a different church; but this only showed the perfect farce of the profession. But he could scarcely understand such an argument as coming from an hon. Member who had most consistently, certainly, supported the proposition for separate religious instruction being provided in the Irish Colleges for the Protestant apart from the Roman Catholic pupils—
 Mr. C. Buller  contended that such a distinction did not justify the test, which was one that ought not to continue; and seeing the principle on which the Government had acted with regard to Ireland, he could not understand how they could support it. The right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) rested his argument in favour of the application of a different principle to Scotland from that the Government had applied in the case of Ireland, upon the different circumstances of
 261 262 263 264
 Mr. Newdegate  seconded the Amendment.
 Mr. Newdegate  said, that he had not been prepared to address the House, and he should not have presumed to second the Amendment of the hon. Baronet the Member for Oxford, if he had not been deeply impressed with the importance of the subject. This Bill proposed to permit the Roman Catholic hierarchy to assume the titles of certain sees, and, among other things, to permit the conducting of their processions in public. Now matters of mere name or title, and processions, however much they might inflame that feeling of indignation which certain measures of Her Majesty's Government had excited in the minds of the Protes-
 287 288
 The Lord Advocate  said, that the Bill which was now moved to be read a second time, proposed to abolish tests in the Universities of Scotland—except with respect to certain chairs and theological professorships. It was not proposed by this Bill to establish any other tests in the room of those established by law. This Bill simply proposed to repeal those tests, or, in other words, to repeal the Act of Security. Now, it would be remembered, that there were at present no Colleges or Universities in Scotland for the education of the clergy, except those with respect to which it was proposed to repeal those tests. At the date of the Union it was made a particular condition of the Union that those Universities should be maintained in their existing state, and that those tests now sought to be abolished should be preserved. This was part of the Treaty of Union, and was afterwards introduced in the Act of Union. A proposal was now made to interfere with that arrangement, and to repeal those tests, and not, instead of them, to substitute any other tests. It was not even proposed to modify those tests, but absolutely to repeal them. He was not aware that any body of Dissenters or Presbyterians had expressed a wish that those tests should be repealed. The resolutions which had been passed by the Assembly of the Free Church did not go so far as that. He had said that the maintenance of these tests was one of the conditions of the Union; and he would ask them to consider, when they sought the abolition of those tests and the violation of the Union, whether they had caused any practical evil? He had heard of no practical evil arising from them, and of no complaint of their operations, except from the University of St. Andrew's. Those tests were uniformly observed, except in the University of Edinburgh; and the rea-
 265 "That they are opposed to the present tests as now interpreted; but that they support the present Bill in so far as it removed those sectarian tests, and prepared the way for the Universities being placed on a truly national basis." 266
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  was anxious to ask the Government to adopt the suggestion which had more than once been pressed upon them to-night, to reconsider their intentions with regard to this Bill, which they had already done, not once but three times, and at last to come to the resolution of supporting the Bill. The Government would not be astonished at his making this request, for, if he was not misinformed, they had already changed their minds upon the subject three times since the introduction of the Bill. They came down to the House, he understood, determined to oppose the introduction of the Bill; but the statement made on that occasion by the hon. Member for Leith was of so convincing and startling a character, that it was perceptible to all in the House that another resolution was come to in the course of that admirable speech, and the Bill was allowed to be introduced. The right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary then declared his resolution to be guided by the opinion of the people of Scotland. Now what was the opinion of the people of Scotland? It did not consist of the isolated opinion of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland. That never was held to be the
 267
 Mr. P. Howard  thought, that at this late period of the Session, it was unjust to throw upon parishes and small counties such large expenses as this Bill would entail; and, unless the Bill was greatly modified in this respect, he would, on the third reading, take the sense of the House on an Amendment to have the Bill postponed to next Session.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford, ought to be the last man to object to monastic institutions in this country. As to the intercourse between this country and Rome, it seemed to him much better that it should be open and avowed, than that a sort of backstairs illegitimate intrigue and  liaison 286 R. Inglis: quæ regio in terris nostri non plena laboris
 Mr. T. Duncombe  proposed as an Amendment, to leave out from the word "Asylum" to the end of the Clause, in order to insert the words—
 ["Notice of the same shall be sent to the Coroner having jurisdiction where such Asylum is situated, who shall cause an Inquest to be held touching the cause of such patient's death."]
 Mr. Macaulay  rose to move the Second Reading of the Universities Scotland Bill. He said: I have been requested by my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Leith (Mr. Rutherfurd), to act as his substitute on this occasion. I very greatly regret that a substitute should be necessary. I regret that we have not him among us to take charge of this measure, which he introduced to a very thin House indeed, in one of the most forcible and luminous speeches it has ever been my lot to hear. The few hon. Members, however, who were then present, cannot fail to remember the powerful effect which the speech of my hon. and learned Friend, on applying for leave to bring in the Bill, produced. The Ministers who came down to oppose it relinquished their objections to it. They hesitated; they consulted together; and at last, under the irresistible influence of his eloquence, they consented that he should have leave to bring in the Bill. They subsequently appeared to regard the Bill with favour, and his hon. and learned Friend, with himself, was thus induced to expect that the opposition to it was over. We anticipated that this important and salutary measure would be suffered to become law. But we have
 228 229 230 231 232 233 234 jure divino, 235 236 237 animus imponentis 238 The Fourfold State? 239 "That the Senatus and Faculty of the University of St. Andrew's ought to be required forthwith to redress the evil which you have brought upon the Church, by taking all steps competent to them for removing you from the office of Principal of the United College, and
 240 quam primum, "For the glory of God, the safety of the Church, and the prosperity of the University!" Senatus Academicus 241 242
 Mr. Redington  begged to remind the right hon. Baronet, that Wednesday was the only day of the week on which an Order of the Day could be brought forward by an individual Member, and that the complaint as to the hour at which the
 284
 Mr. Watson  said, as the measure had advanced to its present stage without any discussion of its principle, he wished to state the grounds on which he asked for the assent of the House to it. Its object was to repeal the remaining penal laws affecting the Roman Catholics. He had no wish to touch the safeguards of the Church; but he proposed to abrogate a variety of penal enactments in various Statutes, passed in former times, when antipathy to the Roman Catholics was the prevailing sentiment. The present measure was introduced along with the Act of last Session in the House of Lords, and passed the Committee there; but the Session being so far advanced, it was considered that only those clauses should be left in the Bill which could pass without any objection whatever. Various Members of the Government, and among them the Lord Chancellor, expressed their approval of its provisions; the only objection being, that it did not go far enough, and that a more complete Bill should be brought in to repeal those penal
 280 premunire, 281 282
 Mr. Watson  said, that he should certainly take the sense of the House, as he did not conceive that he had been treated well by the Government.
 Sir G. Grey  felt that some apology was due to the House for his addressing it upon a subject more immediately connected with a part of the country with which he could claim no personal connexion. He should have felt reluctance to rise on the present occasion, after the
 254 255 "Are there any penal enactments in Scotland, as represented by Mr. Hume in his Commentaries, affecting persons differing from the national religion, except Papists?" his reply was,'There are restrictions. We have now pending in the House of Commons, a Bill, brought in to relieve from disabilities, in regard to professorships in the Universities.'" "In Scotland there appear to be no religious tests as a qualification for holding offices or places of trust, except for the admission of the office-bearers, professors, and teachers, in the Universities, and for parochial schoolmasters; in the latter of which cases, tests have always been imposed, though in some of the Universities they have been, to a great extent, in abeyance. As this subject is at present under the consideration of Parliament, we do not consider it proper to offer any opinion upon it." 256 J. Graham: 257
 Sir J. Graham  complained of the lateness of the hour at which the hon. and learned Member brought on his Motion, and also that it had been introduced at a time when none of the Law Officers of the Crown were present. He had on a former occasion reminded the hon. and learned Member, that with reference to the principle of the remission of the penal laws there was no difference of opinion among Her Majesty's advisers in either House of Parliament—that the principle of the necessity of repealing those laws was, he thought, distinctly admitted by the Bill which had been sent down from the other House last Session:
 283 Watson: in toto,
 Sir J. Graham  said: The bitter party and personal invective with which the right hon. Gentleman, as usual, has accompanied his arguments on a great question of public policy, shall not prevent me, on the present occasion, from taking a fair review of those arguments, and, to the best of my ability, sustaining the decision to which Her Majesty's Government has come in a matter so important to the Universities of Scotland. The right hon. Gentleman has truly said this is a question deeply affecting the interests of the Universities of Scotland in no ordinary degree; and he has said Her Majesty's Government is not entitled to the confidence of the House, because, with respect to the Scotch Universities, they advocate a policy which the right hon. Gentleman contends is diametrically opposite to that of the Bill lately introduced with regard to Ireland. I can only say, in reply, that Her Majesty's Ministers are actuated by no other desire than that of honestly discharging their public duty, and pursuing that course of policy which they hold to be best adapted to the varied circumstances of different parts of Her Majesty's dominions, regardless of all taunts that may be heaped on them; and they are also at all times prepared frankly to defend that which they believe to be right, and to be the best calculated for the public good. The right hon. Gentleman has also accused us of having exhibited a marked hesitation in coming to a decision on this subject. I
 243 244 245 246 247 "I underscribe and cordially adhere to the Profession of Faith ratified by the Fifth Act of the Second Session, in opposition to the errors of Popery, Socinianism, and Arminianism, and I do promise to submit to the government of the Church as now settled by the law and by Act of Parliament," 248 249 250 251 252
 Sir James Graham  wished to correct a misconception of what he had said on a former day; he had not said that Government was ready to take into consideration a measure to repeal certain clauses in the Relief Act of 1829. On the second reading of the present measure, he had expressly claimed that Ministers should not be considered pledged upon the question. What he had said was, that the Commissioners had been directed to prepare a bill strictly limited to the recommendations in their Report; and in the other House the Lord Chancellor had stated that the Government was not at all pledged upon the subject.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, he did not complain of the hon. and learned Gentleman bringing forward his measure; but he did complain that, having been allowed to pass through two stages without any discussion upon its merits, he had refused to inform him (Sir R. Inglis) on what day heintended proceeding with it, on being respectfully requested to do so. The hon. Gentleman
 285
 Sir R. Inglis  said, his right hon. Friend the Member for Edinburgh would acquit him of any intention to speak of him with any disrespect, if he said that of his speech — brilliant and beautiful as were many of its passages—there was only one argument which seemed to him (Sir R. Inglis) to be a piece of ordnance that had made any impression on the bulwark he had attacked. It was this — that whereas there was a compact entered into in 1707 by the Act of Union, there was at present
 258 259
 Sir R. Peel  said: I promise the Gentlemen who are anxious for a division, that I will detain them but for a short period. The ground on which I shall resist this Motion I shall state very briefly. I have never concealed from myself the difficulties which the Government would have to encounter in proposing this new plan of academical education in Ireland. I foresaw that an attempt to form new institutions for the purpose of giving academical education in a country so circumstanced in respect to population and religious opinion, must evidently subject the Government to the charges which have, in my opinion, most unjustly been brought against them in the course of this discussion. It has been said, that the principles which we adopted in Ireland, in the formation of these new academical institutions, necessarily compelled us to apply those principles to other parts of the Empire, and that we were acting inconsistently, and in violation of our principles, if we declined so to apply those principles. Sir, what are the circumstances under which those new institutions in Ireland are proposed to be founded? We wish to provide, at the expense of the State, a good secular education. We do not propose to introduce a system of theological education. We do not propose to educate persons intended for the ministry of the Church. We do not propose to disconnect religion from a secular education; but we do propose, on account of the peculiar circumstances of the population,
 268 269 ex officio 270 271 Hume: Hume; Hume: Hume 272
 Sir R. Peel  stated, that last Session he had brought in a Bill for the repeal of certain Acts which affected a certain part of Her Majesty's subjects. At that time it was intimated to him that he was not justified in giving relief to one class, and giving no relief of a similar character to another class. The whole subject was so complicated, and involved in so many Statutes of an ancient date, that he stated he would refer it to Commissioners to consider those laws. The Commission was composed of very eminent men, and their Report on the subject was not in the possession of the Government until the last week in May, and he had not seen it until June. Now, from the complicated state of public business connected with the various departments, and also from the necessity of considering the measures to be submitted to the House, and also from their sitting in that House from eight to nine hours a day, for four or five days in the week, it was utterly impossible to give full consideration to all the subjects that might come forward. The question of these laws had also reference to persons keeping schools, who were not Roman Catholics, but Dissenters from the Establishment. The Government felt that an impartial view should be taken, and that the measure should comprise all classes; they had, therefore, desired the Commissioners to prepare a Bill on the subject of these ancient Statutes. He could not pledge the Government more than to say that they would give the fullest consideration to the measures which should be proposed by the Commissioners. The enactments of the Bill of 1829 were of a very different character, and he was not able to make any promise or any pledge on the subject. No doubt, as had been stated, there would be considerable opposition out of doors to any proceeding on the subject. He fairly owned that there were many enactments which should not be continued; and he had no hesitation in saying that he was ready to encounter opposition on the subject of the removal of these enactments from the Statute Book. He could not pledge himself to any particular clauses of the Bill of the hon. and learned Gentleman; but he could assure him that the subject should receive the fullest consideration. He was now speaking of the ancient enactments, and did not refer to those which were imposed when the Ca-
 290
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  rose to support the Motion. The hon. Members who had defended Trinity College had not displayed much force in their arguments. It was said by the hon. Member who had just resumed his seat, that the Statute of Elizabeth prevented persons of Roman Catholic opinions holding offices in this University. Now he thought that there was some mistake in this, because if Roman Catholics were excluded by the Statute of Elizabeth, why would such pains have been taken to exclude them by the Statute of Charles I., which passed so many years afterwards? He now came to the question of the property of the College. He must say on this point, that he did not think that the opposition to this Motion of the hon. Member for the University of Dublin was well founded; for he could not see what interest the University had in keeping the public in ignorance of the amount of its revenues. What objection there could be to make the public acquainted with the average amount of those revenues, he was totally at a loss to understand. He admitted that there
 351 352
 Lord John Russell : The right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) has hardly treated fairly the argument of my right hon. Friend (Mr. Sheil). My right hon. Friend, as a Roman Catholic, says, "Let us in Ireland have equality." A very fair object for any Roman Catholic and for any Irishman to look to. It was promised—solemnly promised at the Act of Union, and you have never denied—no party has ever denied—that equality is due to the Roman Catholics of Ireland. If that be your principle, so solemnly asserted, let us look with regard to any measure brought before the House, and see whether in respect to that measure equality is given to the Roman Catholics of Ireland. This is a question of academical education. I admit there are great merits in this Bill—great merits, as it tends to promote education in Ireland, and tends to give liberal encouragement to the means of instruction among the commercial and middle classes of that country. I think it has great merit in being entirely free from any religious test. I think that is a distinguishing feature of the Bill, which I am happy to acknowledge. But when I come to consider what will be the state of academical education in Ireland when this Bill has passed, comparing Roman Catholics with Protestants, the case will be this. With respect to clerical education, you may say that Trinity College is a place for the ecclesiastical education of Protestants; and that Maynooth is a place for the ecclesiastical education of Roman Catholics. So far there is an apparent equality. But when I come to consider the means for the general education of the higher classes in that country—I mean an education for the learned professions with a view to obtaining distinction in various pursuits and
 375 376 377
 Mr. Lefroy  would oppose the Motion, believing that its object was to open the emoluments of Trinity College, not only to the different religions in Ireland, but to all religions. The Statutes to which the hon. Member, for Kendal had referred, confined,
 350
 Mr. Speaker  said, that the Amendment could not be put in its present form.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, he felt it his duty as a Protestant to oppose the Amendment proposed by the hon. Gentleman opposite. He admitted that the time might come when the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government might be as disposed
 374
 Mr. Shaw  had but little to add to the excellent speech of his hon. Friend and Colleague (Mr. Hamilton); but, in consequence of some observations which had since been made, as well as some of the remarks with which the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Mr. Osborne) had introduced the Amendment, he (Mr. Shaw) would beg the attention of the House for a few minutes. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had borne testimony to the willingness of the authorities in Trinity College to give information, when it was sought in a friendly spirit; as they had proved by consenting to a return within the last week, of the reports, valuations, and surveys of their estates, as made by their officer, Mr. Collis, which had been moved for in that spirit of friendliness by a tenant of their own—the hon. Member for the county of Cork (Mr. O'Connell). But the present was a hostile and invidious Motion, with the avowed object of alienating the property of the University of Dublin to purposes the very opposite of those for which it was founded. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Osborne) had complained that he had described the property in question as the private property of Trinity College, Dublin: he certainly had done so. It was the private property of a public body, held, no doubt, on a public trust; and that body was liable to account for any breach of that trust; but where no abuse had even been alleged, much less attempted
 353 "All persons which shall be preferred to any degree of learning in any university that hereafter shall be within this realm, shall, before being preferred to such degree, take the said Oath of Supremacy." 354 355 ad eundem Osborne: R. Peel: l. l. 356 l. "A senior Fellow's income fluctuates a good deal—being made up of various items. The salary of a senior fellowship is 100 l. l. l. l., l. l. 357
 Mr. George A. Hamilton  had certainly anticipated that the Motion of the hon.
 333 Osborne 334 "The University of Dublin, which in its earliest days produced Usher, the most profoundly learned offspring and ornament of the Reformation, and Loftus in oriental letters, rivalled only by his great coeval, Pocock; which afterwards sent forth to shine among the foremost of an Augustine age, Parnel, the chastest of our poets; Swift, the purest of our prose writers; and Berkeley, the first of our metaphysicians; Goldsmith, the most natural depictor of life and manners; Burke, the greatest philosopher and statesman of his own or any other age or country; Grattan, the eloquent asserter of his country's rights—the parent of Irish independence;"— R. Peel: 335 Sheil: 336 337 338 l. l. 339 340 341 l. l. l. 342
 Mr. Warburton  said, that the question before the House was not the number of great men which Trinity College had produced, but whether the objects for which the University had been established had been fully accomplished according to the purposes described in its charters. What were the purposes for which the College had been established? What were the circumstances under which the fellowships and scholarships were founded? They ought to consider those questions attentively, and whether they had been fully carried out, and, if not carried out, in what particulars they had been neglected. The
 343 l. l. s. d. l. 344 345
 Mr. Hume  was sorry to see that this Motion encountered the opposition of the Government. Considering that their policy during the whole of the present Session had been, or appeared to be, guided by a sincere desire to conciliate the people of Ireland, he thought that, on this occasion, they were but throwing away a good opportunity of so doing, as this would have been one means of succeeding in their object. In reference to the charter of the College, the hon. Baronet (Sir R. Inglis) said that mere words were of little importance; but were the words in favour of the views of the hon. Baronet, he would be the last person to say so. The hon. Baronet tried to justify the present exclusive system pursued in Dublin by the spirit of the charter; but that document did not bear out the hon. Baronet's conclusion. On that ground, if on no other, they should act fairly and liberally. He considered, that, even if the College had been instituted to exclude all classes but one class, the time had now come when, as a public institution, they should consider whether its constitution was fit and proper, and whether the time had not now arrived when that constitution should be changed. That was his view of the matter. It was said, in answer to the hon. and gallant Member who moved for this inquiry, that this was not the time for such a Motion, But, surely, it was a proper time to bring forward such a Motion, when Her Majesty's Government had brought forward a
 349
 Mr. Bernal Osborne  rose to bring forward the Amendment of which he had given notice, for an Address to Her Majesty, praying that she would be graciously pleased to direct an inquiry to be made into the amount of the revenues of Trinity College, Dublin. He said that he was fully sensible, at this advanced period of the Session, when the fatigues of July legislation overcame the energies of the House, that it was impossible for any Member to succeed in rousing the dormant attention, or in exciting the wasted energies of the Members of the House in favour of some particular subject. He felt, therefore, the difficulty of awakening the attention of hon. Members on the subject of his Motion, to the extent which the importance of the question so pre-eminently deserved; but, at the same time, it was his intention to condense what he felt it necessary to say in the smallest possible compass. He did not believe that he could be fairly charged with throwing any unnecessary impediment in the way of this measure, because, in accordance with the request of the right hon. Baronet, he had withdrawn his Motion on a former occasion, at a time when he had the chance of a much larger number of hon. Members present, and consequently a much greater probability of support than at present. The more he considered the subject, the more did he feel the force of the allegation that the measure was one which must be wholly inefficient for the purpose for which it was proposed, unless some great change were effected in the constitution of Trinity College, Dublin. He entertained no hostility to that institution. On the contrary, he had many friends among its members. But he could not conceal from himself the fact that the whole system pursued in that College was so totally unknown, that while the darkness respecting it was maintained, a stop must be put to all legislation in that House in any way connected with it. He would ask hon. Members, when they considered the vast and great resources of Ireland, and also when they recollected that the Roman Catholic gentry of that country annually send 10,000 l. 322 323 "Private property was one of those fundamental acts which constituted society. It was the band of society itself. But the acts which form and endow corporations are subsequent, and subordinate; the property of individuals is established as a general principle which seems coeval with society itself; but bodies, whether ecclesiastical or civil, are instruments fabricated by the Legislature for a specific purpose, which ought to be preserved whilst they are beneficial, amended when they are impaired, and rejected when they become useless and injurious." 324 "Whereby knowledge, learning, and civility may be increased among the Irish, and their children's children, especially those that be poor (as it were in an orphans' hospital, freely), may have their learning and education given them with more ease and lesser charges than in other Universities they can attain it." fons et origo 325 l. domus et placens uxor Laughter. Studiorum finis erit mihi theologiæ professio, ut ecclesiæ Dei prodesse possim. l. 326 l. l. l. l. s. l. l. Shaw: l. l. 327 l. l. "In the case of metaphysics and moral philosophy, I can see no possible reason or necessity for requiring professors of any particular creed in order to render them competent teachers in those branches of instruction; and
 328 "Trinity College, Dublin—Pursuant to the provisions of the Act of 40 Geo. III., notice is hereby given, that the professorship of chemistry in Trinity College, Dublin, will become vacant on the 16th of May next, and that on Saturday, the 27th of May, the Provost and senior Fellows, at the board-room of Trinity College, will proceed to elect a professor of chemistry. The emoluments of this professorship consist of a sum of 200 l. 329 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to direct an inquiry to be made into the amount of the Revenues of Trinity College, Dublin, from rents of College lands, endowments and bequests, fees on matriculation, on taking degrees, and from every other source; also, into the manner in which that income is expended, the number of Senior and Junior Fellows, of Professors, Scholars, and all other Officers of the College, with the amount of salary and allowances to each of them; with a view to ascertain whether the income or funds at present applied solely to the benefit of Protestants in Trinity College, Dublin, might not be beneficially extended, so as to make Roman Catholics and Protestant Dissenters eligible, if otherwise qualified, to all Scholarships, and to all such Fellowships, Professorships, and other Offices in Trinity College, Dublin, as are not intended for ecclesiastical purposes, or immediately connected with ecclesiastical endowment."
 Mr. Bellew  seconded the Motion. He said, a Catholic could not go through his studies at Oxford; he could go through his studies at Cambridge, but could not take a degree; at Dublin he could both study and take a degree. He could also vote for the Member of Parliament for the University. This was not included in the charter of Elizabeth. The hon. Member proceeded to draw a distinction between the systems pursued in the Universities of England, and that pursued in the University of Dublin. He maintained that so long as that system was to be continued, so long would exist that Protestant ascendancy which the Government appeared to think had gone by. He thought that there ought to be a second College united to Trinity College, forming together the University of Dublin.
 Mr. Sheil : Sir, the Motion immediately before the House is an Amendment to the proposition of the right hon. Baronet opposite. I wish to avoid making two
 358 359 penates, "Shake our dispositions With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls!" 360 361 Multis ille bonis flebilis occidit," 362 "A very heathen in the carnal part, But yet a sad, good Christian at the heart." "It is true, what was anciently said, that a state is contained in two words— premium pæna pæna, in præmio, 363 l. l. l. 364 365 366
 Mr. Redington  hoped that an Act would be passed on the subject, if the decision was against the person who brought the matter before the Courts in Dublin. With regard to the inquiring into the Scotch Universities, it was not confined to the money given by the State; and with respect to abuses, he was not quite clear that none existed in Trinity College. It was not fair to say that Trinity College was open to Roman Catholics, when they were excluded from all the prizes and rewards of industry and learning. The Roman Catholics of Ireland would not be satisfied till they were put on an equality with their Protestant fellow countrymen; and he thought this might be done with regard to the University of Dublin, by leaving all the professorships for the purposes of the Protestant religion in the hands of Protestants, and throwing open all other professorships to persons of all denominations. Roman Catholics could not hold any professorships at present, because they were obliged to take an oath to conform to the liturgy of the Church of Ireland.
 Sir G. Clerk  regretted the necessity for postponement, but hoped that during the recess a more comprehensive measure might be devised.
 Sir Howard Douglas  said, as the Mover of the Resolution embodied in the Report for the postponement of this Bill, he would, with the permission of the House, say a few words in reply to the reference made to him. The Resolution which he proposed was seconded by his hon. Friend the Member for London (Mr. Lyall), and vigorously supported by another hon. Member, now no more, whose untimely death this House must lament, his Friends mourn, and the mercantile marine of this country might justly deplore. So sustained, the Resolution was agreed to by a large majority; and he (Sir Howard Douglas) hoped that Her Majesty's Government would give effect to that Resolution, by moving the postponement of this Bill till the next Session of Parliament. Having been a member of the Merchant Seamen's Fund Committees of the last and the present Session, he had ample means and opportunities of considering, deeply, the important subject of forming a Merchant Seamen's Fund, adequate to the wants and necessities of the mercantile marine. He objected to the present Bill, because it was, in principle, unjust, and injurious to the shipping inte-
 382 383 "This Committee, therefore, earnestly request Sir Howard Douglas to persevere in his intention to meet Mr. Wawn's proposal by a direct negative, authorizing Sir Howard, at the same time, to assure Her Majesty's Government of the entire readiness and anxious wish of this Committee, to concur in any well matured and comprehensive proposal, for ameliorating the condition of the seaman; tending, while in health and strength, to improve his condition, and to retain him in the service of his own country, and to increase the provision made for him when old or disabled—objects which this Committee are prepared to recommend to the shipowners at large, even at the price of submitting to further taxation themselves."
 Sir James Graham , at the five o'clock sitting, moved the Third Reading of the Colleges (Ireland) Bill.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  observed, that the hon. and gallant Officer who introduced this subject, appealed to him and claimed his vote, on the ground that in a former debate he had promised to support a Motion for a Commission of Inquiry in any case in which an abuse might be alleged and proved. Ad-
 346 l. l. 347 348
 Sir R. Inglis : Then I shall content myself with giving a simple negative to the proposition.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  stated, that it was made a boast, that now, for the first time, an institution, founded by the State, had been established without any regard to religion. Her Majesty's Government would either fail in making a system of education without religion in Ireland, or the professors would circulate their own peculiar doctrines. He moved that the Bill be read a third time that day three months.
 Sir R. Peel  asked whether the hon. Baronet did not call upon him with a petition from Galway, stating that the petitioners were anxious that Galway should be one of the seats for the new Colleges?
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, I trust the House will bear in mind what are the circumstances under which the right hon. Gentleman has made this impassioned appeal. What is the position in which we are now standing with respect to the question of Irish academical education, on which he says, to give satisfaction there must be perfect equality? As Minister of the Crown, I am speaking towards the close of a Session, in the course of which we have been prepared, in order to establish that equality, to run counter to the strong feelings—to the strong religious feelings—of the majority, I fear, of the people of this country. In order to do that which we believe to be consistent with justice—in order to do that which we hope will be acceptable to the Roman Catholics, we came forward with a proposition for the endowment, the liberal endowment, of that institution in which the Roman Catholic ecclesiastics of Ireland receive academical education. We attached no conditions whatever to the acceptance of that grant—we proposed no restrictions with which the most scrupulous and conscientious Roman Catholics could quarrel—we asked for no interference with their religious doctrines. In taking powers necessary for the government of that institution, where there could be a question about any interference with the doctrines or discipline of that Church, we committed that interference to Trustees, not appointed by the Crown, but elected by the free choice of the Roman Catholic bishops. To that institution we assigned a provision which was thought to be liberal, for the purpose of improving the edifice in which instruction was to be delivered. We made an annual provision for the purpose of improving the condition of those professors—men of learning, and, I believe, of great respectability, but heretofore miserably endowed, to whom the education of the Roman Catholic youth was entrusted. There was no question whatever about the amount of the grant. If we had had reason to believe that double the amount was necessary, I assure the right hon. Gentleman that no consideration of paltry economy, or
 367 368 369 l. 370 371 Osborne: 372 Osborne Sheil: 373
 Sir T. Fremantle  said, that when, on a former occasion, the hon. Member for Wycombe had brought forward a similar Motion to the present, he had considered it his duty to resist it; and he might at
 330 l. l. l. 331 l. l.; l., l. l. 332
 Sir V. Blake  was understood to say that the petition from Galway, to which the right hon. Baronet had referred, was not signed by the Catholic warden of Galway, because there was no such individual.
 Sir V. Blake  admitted that he called upon the right hon. Baronet to recommend that Galway should be one of those seats. The right hon. Baronet would probably recollect that, before the announcement of the intention of the Government to found these Colleges was made public, he took the opportunity of communicating to the right hon. Baronet certain measures by which great advantages would accrue to Ireland. [Sir  Robert Peel:
 Viscount Ebrington  could not find for what class of students these Colleges were designed, or whom they would benefit, and not having any confidence that the Government would conduct them satisfactorily, must vote against the Bill. On these grounds he should support the Amendment.
 Mr. V. Smith  was willing to rest his opinion that the Bill should not be postponed upon the arguments of the hon. Member for Finsbury, which all went to prove the necessity of most active and careful
 417
 Lord Duncan  was disposed to support the Amendment; but as it was then four o'clock, he moved the adjournment of the debate.
 Viscount Duncan  trusted that the
 421
 Mr. E. Ellice  confirmed what had been stated by the hon. Member for Paisley (Mr. Hastie). The condition of the poor of Scotland within the last eighteen months, compared with what it had previously been, had been made much better by the discovery of the actual state of the law with regard to them. This was not a party question here or in Scotland; he had conversed with men of all politics upon it, and had met with but one opinion—that, if the Bill passed in its present shape, it would be likely to produce very mischievous effects. The allegations of the petitions against it were, that, it would deprive the poor of their present remedy against the heritors, and subject them to an irresponsible power in order to put the law into effect. He gave the Government credit for honest intentions; but they only knew the state of the people of Scotland, through a prejudiced channel; with respect to Scotland, they appeared to be subjected to some influence that blighted all they took in hand. Had their measures with respect to the Scotch Church, or any other of their measures with regard to Scotland, been satisfactory to the people? Had they not all met with general condemnation? On a subject of such vast importance, ample time ought to be given for consideration; as the knowledge of the provisions of the Bill extended, the objections to it would increase. He hoped the Government would postpone it till next Session; if not, he hoped other parties in another place would prevent it from passing this year.
 Mr. Duncan  was constantly receiving communications from Scotland stating objections to the measure. He felt that it was only common justice that it should be postponed to another Session. He had not received a single letter in favour of the Bill. He was anxious for an amendment of the present law; but, instead of this imperfect measure, they had better wait until next year, when they could get a well-digested Bill.
 Mr. Hamilton  thought it well to go into Committee; but certainly, when the clauses in question came before them, they would meet with his opposition unless considerably modified.
 Viscount Duncan  hoped the Members for Ireland would suffer them to go into Committee, on the full understanding that the clause more especially objected to by them, should, in Committee, undergo thorough investigation.
 Lord Claude Hamilton  should feel bound to oppose the progress of the Bill, unless some much more distinct statement was made by the Government as to the obnoxious clauses.
 Mr. Gladstone  called the attention of the House to the expediency of rendering the law clear, that farm labourers and domestic servants were not liable to be rated to the poor. The present mode of rating generally in Scotland was most inquisitorial in its operation. The parochial boards who managed it were not in any way bound to secrecy, and they fixed upon each person precisely such a rate as they pleased. That system might be made the means of much oppression, and, though he was not prepared to say that the English system, as a whole, was applicable to Scotland, he would throw out that that system might be adopted as the basis of an improved system for Scotland. He hoped that the Lord Advocate would indicate his intention of taking the whole law of rating in Scotland into his serious consideration; for he was persuaded that it would be found impossible to allow it to remain in its present state.
 Mr. Duncan  contended that these were matters which should be decided by the Legislature, and not left to local parties afterwards.
 Mr. Edward Ellice  was clearly of opinion
 428
 Viscount Duncan  said this discussion showed that it was easier to find fault with a measure than to bring forward a good one; but he thought the House ought to leave the clause as proposed by Her Majesty's Government. The local boards would decide which of the three modes of assessment they would adopt; and then there was a safeguard against the operation of local prejudices by the controlling power lodged in the board of supervision.
 Mr. Edward Ellice  said, that as the words "means and substance" were not sufficiently defined, he should divide against the clause.
 Viscount Duncan  proposed as an Amendment, to add the words on "parochial boards" to this clause. He did not propose this in any feeling of hostility to the Bill, but with the view of allaying public feeling in Scotland against the board of supervision. He felt this so strongly that he should take the sense of the Committee on the subject.
 Lord Ashley  sincerely hoped the hon. Member for Finsbury, now that he stated the object he had in view in opposing the Bill, would allow the House to go through the preliminary forms, so that the measure might be fully and dispassionately considered and discussed in Committee. He also hoped that nothing which might fall from the hon. Gentleman or any other hon. Member would tempt him to infringe the rules of the House, or induce him to reply in any way that exhibited aught in the nature of irritation or ill-feeling. When he heard the hon. Gentleman say that the Commissioners, in the discharge of their duties, and particularly in their examinations, had conducted themselves with arrogance and intolerance, he must take leave to say that the hon. Member had been most grievously misinformed by those who had made such a statement to him. He would ask him to consult his own heart and his own feelings, and if in his heart and his feelings he found that it would be possible for him, in so solemn an inquiry—an inquiry of so delicate a nature, and affecting, as it did, the happiness of human beings — to behave with arrogance and intolerance, then he (Lord Ashley) would admit that his brother Commissioners and himself were open to the charge. But he would undertake to prove to the House that nothing could be more inaccurate than such a charge. It was quite true that the hon. Gentleman gave him notice that it was his intention to bring under the consideration of the House the case of Captain Digby. He had stated to him in private that if it were necessary for the Commissioners to be put upon their defence, and to show their reasons why they could not authorize the liberation of that party, he feared, from the documents which would be produced, that the case would issue in a painful result. He had hoped that he should not have to weary the House by any further statements; and he felt that he was acting with exceeding boldness when he brought forward this measure. He had hoped that his preliminary observations would have been sufficient; but since it was the will of the House that he should make a further communication on this matter, he would request
 397 398 399 400 401 402 l. l. l., l., l., l. l. l. 403 l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. T. Duncombe: 404 T. Duncombe: 405 l. 406 407 "circumstance came under my observation of a female, who, during her pregnancy, became insane; and the person under whose care the parish officers had placed her had fastened the ligatures so tight round her ancles (the blood being in a sluggish state) that they mortified; and, upon my second visit, I found that her feet had dropped off." "On my visit to another asylum, I found twenty-five lunatics crowded together in a small yard, with only a boy, under twenty years of age, to take care of them. They were all bound in waistcoats or handcuffs." 408 409
 Lord Ashley  moved, "that the Speaker do now leave the chair."
 Lord Ashley  moved the Order of the Day for the House to go into Committee on the Lunatics' Bill.
 Mr. Hastie  objected to the further progress of this Bill. The poor in Scotland were never so well looked after as in the present time. Therefore, in postponing the measure, no possible harm could result.
 Mr. Escott  complained that funded property was liable to assessment. The practice operated most unjustly, and he hoped that it would not be allowed to continue under this Bill.
 Mr. Escott  said, suppose a man worth 10,000 l. L.
 Mr. Escott  observed, that if a parish adopted that first method, funded property would not be included in "means and substance," and would not contribute.
 Mr. Ross  felt called upon to oppose
 422
 The Lord Advocate  apprehended that in such a case the party would escape altogether from the rate.
 The Lord Advocate  replied, that by the law of Scotland, as it now stood, parties were liable to be assessed to the whole amount of their property; and he did not propose to make any alteration in that respect.
 The Lord Advocate  said that, under the law as it at present stood, all personal property was liable to be assessed to the relief of the poor in the parish in which the possessor of such property resided; and the Bill now before the House did not, therefore, effect any alteration in this respect in the existing law.
 The Lord Advocate  said, under the existing law, parties were appointed to estimate the incomes; and in this respect, also, he left the law as he found it.
 The Lord Advocate  said, with reference to what had been stated by his right hon. Friend the Member for Newark, he would
 425
 The Lord Advocate  thought that it would not promote any public object to adopt the Amendment of the noble Lord. He thought it would destroy the independent action and the efficiency of the inspector to have him dependent on the parochial board; but on any reasonable ground of complaint they could always apply to the board of supervision, who would dismiss him. He, therefore, must resist the Amendment.
 Mr. Darby  would support this clause, chiefly on the ground of the statement made by the hon. Member for Greenock; as he thought they ought not to alter a mode of rating which was found to have already worked well.
 Colonel Rawdon  said, that almost every Scotch Member who had spoken on this subject had opposed the Bill, and on the part of the Irish Members there was a united action against it. He begged to move that the House go into Committee of the Bill that day three months.
 Colonel Rawdon  expressed a hope that before the House went into Committee, the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department would state the intentions of the Government with respect to the clauses affecting the rights of Irish paupers, as the right hon. Gentleman had been requested to do by a deputation of the Irish Members.
 Mr. Hume  said, if the Members for Ireland objected to particular clauses of the Bill, he should object to the measure altogether. The Government had already postponed a great number of measures, and he was anxious that they should adopt the same course with regard to the present Bill. It was so large, and contained so many provisions, many of them most uncertain and undefined, that it would, if carried, prove to be only an Act to create dissension and litigation. The time would be very brief until next Session, and in the mean time the measure might be fully and fairly considered in Scotland, and many important and necessary amendments suggested. The opinion prevalent among the best informed parties in Scotland was, that if the Bill passed into law in its present form, another measure to amend it, would, as a matter of course, have to be introduced next Session.
 Mr. Hume  said, if there was ground for postponing a Bill, the want of power to explain how the many cases of difficulty that would arise were to be met, was ground sufficient. The only effect of this measure would be to unsettle that which was now settled. Under this Bill a Scotch proprietor, having 30,000 l.
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  said, he would go a step further than the two hon. Gentlemen who had last addressed the House, and would ask the Government to apply their own principle to the Bill which they had relied on when another Scotch question had been before the House a few nights ago, and to allow their decision upon it to be regulated by the petitions that had been presented from Scotland on the subject. Though the measure was one which was of vast importance to Scotland, he believed there had not been a single petition presented in its favour, whereas numerous petitions from all persons interested in the state of the Scotch poor had been presented against the Bill. All these petitions concurred in representing the great necessity of legislation on the subject of the poor of Scotland, whereas they, at the same time, described the Bill introduced by the Government as an ill-digested and an ill-adapted measure. They stated, that it would not allay the discontent existing against the present measure, and that the poor had no interest whatever in it. That it would have the effect of overloading the Statute Book with eighty clauses, most of which would, as a matter of necessity, be repealed next Session. In fact, the measure was one which would do no good to the poor man, while it would have the effect of throwing him beyond the pale of the Constitution.
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  thought, that if any alteration were made in the law of assessment, it should be permanent in its character. Otherwise they should not interfere with it.
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  said, that his Act was declaratory rather than legislative, and that it had improved the system of rating throughout the country.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that, it was rather singular that only on Wednesday evening last, one of the reasons urged by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, for the rejection of the Scotch Universities Bill was, that no petitions had been presented in favour of it; but to-night, in answer to the remark that there was no petition in favour of this Bill, he replied, that it was not customary to present petitions in favour of Bills, and, above all, of a measure like the present. He happened to know that there existed a very strong feeling against the Bill in many parts of Scotland, and more particularly in several of the large towns. He had no connexion with Scotland; but petitions had been intrusted to him against the measure from many places, some of which had thousands of signatures attached to them. The Scottish labouring classes generally considered that the Bill would place them in a worse position than before, it being altogether destructive of that right of appeal in their favour, which had only of late been discovered to exist.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, the Bill would not give that guarantee and security to the public which the noble Lord imagined. He did not underrate the great importance of the measure; but at this advanced period of the Session, and when there was no absolute necessity for it that he could understand, he thought that the Bill should be postponed until the next Session of Parliament, in order that an investigation might take place, not only as to the conduct of the Commissioners, but also with reference to the operation of the existing laws, under which great abuses did exist, and would continue to exist, in spite of the provisions of the Bill. The noble Lord could not tell him how any persons who had been unjustly confined could obtain relief by the Bill before the House; the same medical certificates were to be given, and interested parties would still have the power of imprisoning their victims under the plea of lunacy. He would call the attention of the House to the petition of Mr. Lewis Phillips, who asked for time,
 410 "For the purpose of explaining the malpractices and workings of divers individuals desirous of placing Her Majesty's subjects in I such places of confinement, without the proper; and necessary steps which a British subject ought to be entitled to, and receive protection from a law to guard against any innovation, or tend in any measure to deprive the subject of the freedom he should properly enjoy." "That he was a partner in a large firm as a glass and lamp manufacturer, in Regent-street, St. James's, in the month of March, 1838, with his brothers, who were carrying on a prosperous business. That on the 16th day of March, 1838, your petitioner was on his usual rounds to the nobility, customers of the firm. That one of the said customers required your petitioner to call at Her Majesty's Palace that morning at eleven o'clock. That your petitioner did call, and the pretext thus arose for incarcerating your petitioner in a lunatic asylum. That without further entering into details, your petitioner was, in consequence of representations by his partners of his insanity to the magistrate, Mr. White, of Queen-square Police Court, given over to their care and custody. That your petitioner conferred with several friends and the police, who advised your petitioner to bring actions against all parties; on his again going to the Palace on the Saturday, the 17th of March, 1838, for the purpose of finding out the names of the parties who aided and abetted in his capture, he was seized at Pimlico by Leadbeater, without any cause, and neither did he intrude, or had any intention of intruding upon any part of the Palace; then conveyed to Bow-street station-house, locked up all night, and at six o'clock Sunday evening your petitioner was informed that he was liberated, and taken to receive some refreshment, by Leadbeater and an attorney; that without any further investigation, on the said Sunday evening your petitioner was removed in a hackney coach, closely guarded, to Dr. Warburton's lunatic asylum, Bethnal-green. That your petitioner was kept in close confinement until Sunday, the 9th of September, 1838, a period of six months, for, as his partners ridiculously stated, attempting to see the Queen. That during your petitioner's incarceration all sorts of practices were used in order to entrap your petitioner to make some confession to justify their conduct in accusing your petitioner of insanity. That
 411 "That the officers, both medical and otherwise, assisted in this nefarious scheme. That your petitioner has suffered the torture of mind and body through other acts and filthy observations and questions too disgusting to be mentioned, from the officers, medical and otherwise. That your petitioner has prayed to, and humbly requested those officers to desist from their torments. That your petitioner has been chained down and been brutally assaulted by the keepers of the lunatic asylum for having ventured to expostulate upon such ridiculous and wicked conduct. That on Tuesday, the 4th of September, 1838, one of the partners waited upon your petitioner, and with the resident doctor of the establishment, concocted an agreement for your petitioner to sign, requiring him to leave this country for Antwerp, and to be allowed 3 l.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  deprecated the further progress of the Bill at so late a period of the Session. His objection to the principle of the Bill was so great, that he would move its postponement until the next Session.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, he had to present a petition complaining that a man, named William White, a poor brother of
 396
 Mr. Redington  complained that under this clause an Irishman coming to Scotland would have his whole property rated, while, by the 72nd Clause, they refused relief to Irish paupers. The learned Lord Advocate stated that he did not wish to alter the law of Scotland with regard to the rating; he wished that he would be
 429
 Mr. Baine  could not concur in the objections to this clause. He was sure that the adoption of a uniform rate of rating would
 427 l. l.; l. l. l.
 Mr. Ewart  agreed altogether in what had fallen from his hon. Friend who had just sat down. The measure was one which all parties united in saying could not be satisfactory or successful, and the probability was, that if it now became law, it would have to be amended next Session. The delay would also produce the advantage of enabling those hon. Gentlemen who, though Members for Scotland, had unfortunately the misfortune not to be born in Scotland, to become better acquainted with the subject.
 Mr. Ewart  wished to know upon what principle the assessment was to be made; that was, how the income of the party was to be ascertained? was it to be by a return, as in the case of the Income Tax, and if not, in what way?
 Mr. Lockhart  expressed his satisfaction that the right hon. Baronet had not postponed the progress of the Bill.
 Sir J. Graham , in answer to the appeal of hon. Members opposite, would begin by stating, that if ever a measure had been brought before the House which was completely divested of party character, it was the Scottish Poor Law. It was also admitted that the law for the relief of the poor in Scotland, was in such a state as to require immediate alteration. There had been full inquiry, and ample materials for immediate legislation had been obtained.
 420
 Sir J. Graham  said, the best course to adopt would be to proceed with the Bill in Committee until the clauses referred to were arrived at.
 Sir J. Graham  hoped the hon. Member for Finsbury, and the noble Lord the Member for Bath, would be satisfied with the discussion which had already taken place, and would consent to take the sense of the House upon it, with the understanding that the House should go into Committee on Monday.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that the hon. Members who contended for a uniform mode of rating were generally opposed to this Bill. The construction of the Act known as Mr. Poulett Scrope's Act, was to introduce into England one uniform and inflexible system of rating. The Act was very well intended, and was supported by the Government; but it had been found, to a great extent, inoperative, owing to the practical difficulties in the way of carrying it into general execution. It was found that, however desirable that there should be one general system of rating throughout England, yet that, from local circumstances and local peculiarities, it was impossible to carry that object into effect. Circumstances varied in different localities. In Liverpool, for instance, no occupier under 10 L. l.
 Sir J. Graham  would put it to the gallant Member whether, as the objections he and other Gentlemen near him advanced, were objections to details, it would not be better and fairer to discuss them in Committee? He had stated to a deputation of Members, who called upon him at the Home Office, and of which the hon. and gallant Member was, he believed,
 423
 Sir J. Graham , addressing the House, said, that the Government had intended to bring in a Bill similar to that before the House; but knowing the great interest which his noble Friend (Lord Ashley) had taken in the subject, and his perfect acquaintance with it, they had gladly handed over the matter to his charge, but they did not for an instant wish to get rid of the responsibility themselves; on the contrary, the Government took upon themselves the whole responsibility of the measure, which they felt would be of great public benefit. He hoped the House would give its sanction to a measure of so much importance, even although it had been unavoidably delayed to a late period of the Session.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that it was the uniform mode of rating proposed in the Act in question, which had proved a failure.
 Mr. Gibson Craig , as they had so far advanced in Committee, could not conceive the expediency of postponing the measure. His own opinion was, that, generally speaking, the Bill had been favourably received in Scotland, although certainly some alterations were called for in it.
 Mr. Hope  replied, that no report of an official character from the Governor had reached the Colonial Office, giving an account of the proceedings alluded to. He must state, however, that, from what he had seen in the public papers, it appeared to him that a wrong impression had gone abroad as to the facts of the case. From the facts that had reached him, it appeared that the collision did not take place within the boundary of the Colony of the Cape. The Griquas, upon whom the attack had been made, were an independent tribe living beyond the Cape; and therefore not within the limits of the jurisdiction of the British Government. A number of missionaries had settled with the Griquas, as with an independent nation, and the attack made upon Phillipolis, the capital of that country, did not appear to have been made by persons from Natal; for the places were 300 miles distant from each other. The boers who had made the attack were those who, since the abolition of slavery in the Colony, had emigrated to the north of the boundary of the Cape; and it did not appear that there was any connexion between
 476
 Mr. Hope  replied, most unquestionably. The boers who had emigrated, had always been regarded by Her Majesty's Government as subjects of the British Crown. Steps had been taken long ago at Natal for this purpose, and a Lieutenant-Governor had been appointed to govern that place.
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, that in this clause he had to propose certain amendments. He need not go into a long statement of the necessity of widening the streets, not only of the city of London, but of other large towns. The evidence which had been given before a Committee
 479 d. "In order to provide a fund for the opening of poor and densely-populated districts in the Metropolis, or for keeping open spaces in the immediate vicinity of the same, as a means of promoting the public convenience, recreation, and health."
 Mr. Williams  wholly objected to the proposition of the noble Lord. He had as decided objections to a tax upon coals as he had to a tax upon bread, because, in this great metropolis, it was quite as much a necessary of life. The great bulk of the tax was paid by the poorer classes, and that was the reason why it had been so long maintained. Upwards of a million sterling had been raised from the tax within the last few years; 200,000 l. 480
 The Earl of Lincoln  was, indeed, surprised to hear his hon. Friend oppose his proposition, and the more so at the grounds on which he rested his opposition. He had not intended to inform the House of the manner in which his proposal originated; but he felt himself compelled to do so after what had fallen from his hon. Friend. The tax was about to expire, when he was waited upon by a very influential gentleman connected with the City, who represented that the repeal of the tax would benefit no person in the world except the coal merchants. He agreed with him in that opinion, and having consulted with his right hon. Friend at the head of the Government, he adopted the scheme. He was the more astonished at what had fallen from his hon. Friend, because it was not a long while since he headed a deputation to his right hon. Friend, when a proposal was made, not for continuing that small tax, but to impose an additional duty of 1 s. d. 481
 Lord Duncan  moved that the term of five years should be substituted for seven years.
 Viscount Duncan  observed, that in England the law of settlement was very stringent; that in Ireland there was no law of settlement; and he now wanted to know if it were intended that five years' residence in Scotland should constitute a right to relief. He would ask, were they prepared to allow as many as pleased of the disabled Irish to establish themselves in Scotland?
 Mr. Pringle  said, there was no wish in Scotland to have the present system changed. Able-bodied poor out of work must go elsewhere to find it; by law the parish could not, however willing, relieve them. If it were done, it would change the whole habits of the people, and the Bill would be a perfect nuisance; and in some places the people would live in a state of idleness.
 Mr. Hastie  inquired, whether there was not a decision of the Scotch courts that the able-bodied poor were entitled to relief?
 Mr. Hastie  said, that in Paisley the authorities had had the greatest possible difficulty in keeping the public peace in times of distress, when they were told that by the law in England no man could be allowed to starve, and when they had an impression that under the law of Scotland they had a legal right to demand relief. He called upon the Government in this clause to determine whether the able-bodied should or should not have the right.
 Mr. Hastie  moved the following proviso:—
 "Provided nevertheless, that it shall be lawful for the Parochial Board of every parish, or combination of parishes, to allow out of the funds raised by assessment or otherwise for the relief of the poor thereof, such relief to able-bodied persons within such parishes or combination of parishes as the Board may deem necessary, during the existence of temporary distress, arising from the inability of such person to obtain
 488
 Mr. Hastie  observed, that this clause provided one law for the rich, and another for the poor. The rich man could go at once to the Court of Session, whilst that step was denied to the poor man.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that all parties were agreed that this was in itself a bad tax. The right hon. Baronet said, that it was extremely difficult to suggest any other tax as a substitute for it, and as the Government were anxious that great sanatory benefits should be conferred upon certain districts, they were reduced to the necessity of continuing this tax. He, however, wished to know if the Commission had ever seriously inquired whether a substitute could or could not be found? So far as he had learnt, he believed they had not. It was worthy of remark, that upon that Commission were few persons connected with the metropolis. Nor was he ready to believe that the residents of the metropolis would not consent to the imposition of some other tax as a substitute for this, for the purpose of affording a fund by which to effect improvements. A great deal had been said about the price of coal. As far as the price was concerned, much effect might not be produced, either one way or other, by the remission of the duty. He objected to the continuance of this tax, because he believed that a little more investigation would have led to the discovery of a better source of taxation, for the purposes contemplated—a source free from the objections which were chargeable upon this tax; and which, if it pressed heavily upon individuals, would fall upon the rich and not upon the poor; whereas the coal-tax was distinctly a tax pressing upon the poor for the benefit of property, wherever its proceeds were to be expended in improvements.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that he was anxious to put a question to the Under Secretary for the Colonies. It would be recollected that a few nights ago a question was asked of the hon. Gentleman, as to a conflict having taken place between Her Majesty's troops and the natives of New Zealand; and the hon. Gentleman then staled that the Government was without official intelligence on the subject. He now wished to ask whether any information had reached the Colonial Office since that time.
 Mr. Hindley  asked whether the right of sovereignty was claimed by this country over the boers?
 Mr. Hindley  wished to ask a question of the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, respecting some recent proceedings in the vicinity of the Cape of Good Hope. Had any accounts reached the Government with respect to an attack which, it had been stated in the public papers, had been made by the boers, from Natal, on the natives in or near the boundary of the Colony of the Cape of Good Hope? and also, whether the Governor had left Cape Town for the frontier in consequence of this?
 The Speaker  took the Chair at twelve o'clock; but only formal business was transacted till five o'clock.
 The Lord Advocate  proposed an alteration under which the Irish were to be enabled to obtain a settlement in Scotland after certain residence, and under certain circumstances. It had been said that as the Scotch were allowed to obtain a settlement in Ireland without any condition, the Irish, upon a principle of reciprocity, should have the same benefit in Scotland. But the share of nothing which the Irish gave to the Scotch, was no reason for the share of something which the Irish claimed from them. But be that as it might, a fixed residence ought to be demanded from every stranger before he gained a settlement; and under the Bill, as it now stood, the Irish were treated in the same manner as other strangers. He proposed to strike out certain words of the clause in order that, if a person had been; absent five years, without having resided say twelvemonths out of that period in the parish to which he belonged, his right of settlement should not be continued.
 The Lord Advocate  said, he must oppose this clause upon the same grounds as the previous proposition. If it were dangerous to introduce the principle of able-bodied relief, under particular circumstances, into counties, it was equally so as regarded town.
 The Lord Advocate  said, the clause was one which would confer the greatest possible benefit on the poor of Scotland. It would take them out of the hands of those professional persons who had their interests under their control at present; it would relieve them from the tedium and risk of lawsuits, and would save the parish funds for the relief of pauperism. The case stood thus at present: if the parochial board should not listen to the pauper's application for relief, he could go to the Supreme Court, and he could get relief there, because, being a pauper, he could sue  in formâ pauperis; 489 in formâ pauperis,
 The Lord Advocate  observed that there was such a decision; but still the prevailing opinion was, that able-bodied persons were not now entitled to relief by law. The present Bill would leave the law as it now was.
 Mr. E. B. Roche , in reference to an unhappy collision at Ballyhassig, begged to ask the right hon. Baronet opposite whether any orders had been issued precluding, as was most desirable, the police from attending any fair or other popular assembly in Ireland, unless a magistrate were present? He had no hesitation, from his knowledge of the population about Ballyhassig, in saying, that had but one magistrate of influence or station in the country been present on the occasion of the late lamentable affray, no loss of life would have taken place, nor would that loss of life have occurred, had the police not gone to the fair.
 Mr. George Hamilton  said, he thought the proposition a fair one. It was fairer than the speech, and better than the reasoning, of the Lord Advocate; the learned Lord had neither done justice to the Irish, nor to the administration of the Irish Poor Law. It was quite true that there was no settlement or right to relief founded upon settlement in Ireland; but then it should be recollected that the want of a settlement in Ireland did not preclude relief—and the relief afforded was not an occasional but a permanent relief. That relief was afforded in Ireland to Scotchmen equally as to Irishmen—destitution was there the only qualification for relief; and, practically, every destitute person was considered to have a right to relief, whatever country he belonged to. Instead, therefore, of there being no reciprocity, as the Lord Advocate had stated, the Scotchman in Ireland was actually better off than in Scotland. In Scotland the Scotchman could not claim relief, unless he had a settlement of five years' industrial residence. In Ireland he was relieved, without settlement, if he was destitute. The Irish system, therefore, was the more liberal of the two—and Scotchmen had no reason to complain. At the same time he thought it not unfair that a stranger, after acquiring a settlement, should forfeit it by a long absence; and he was, therefore, satisfied with the proposition of Government.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  replied, that since the question was put to him respecting news from New Zealand, which it was stated had been made public, he could now state that the Colonial Office received despatches yesterday of the same date as those referred to; and the accounts received by the Government agreed with those which appeared in the  Times 474 Hazard, North Star 475
 Mr. Aglionby  thought it a great evil to leave the law in doubt; and the weak, impotent, and destitute, ought not to be the only objects of the Bill, if the able-bodied could not get work. The word "occasional" would not include them; for that only designated cases of temporary sickness and the like, as opposed to "permanent" poor. Let the workhouse test or any other be applied; but the able-bodied poor, when out of work, must not starve.
 Mr. Aglionby  thought the learned Lord Advocate had not answered the objection of the hon. Member (Mr. S. Crawford). The hon. Member objected that where the board of supervision should have refused a certificate, the pauper would be barred from suing  in formâ pauperis,
 Mr. H. R. Yorke  said, that he wished to ask
 473
 Mr. Alderman Humphery  would not have said one word, had it not been for the fallacy of the noble Lord's proposition, when he said that the poor were to be benefited by the penny tax being taken off. He would like to know if the taking off the duly would reduce the price of coals to the poor? Now, by every improvement which took place in London the poor received a positive benefit. As one instance of this, he would like the noble Lord to see the number of those employed in the manufacture of bricks, called for by the various improvements at present in progress. As to the benefit which it was said the poor would derive from the abolition of the tax of an additional penny a ton on coals, he would like
 485
 Mr. Masterman  said, in explanation, that he had said in the Committee that if the tax was to be carried, the city of London would expect a portion of it of course.
 Mr. Masterman  was sorry that the noble Lord had determined to renew the tax. The city of London required no further aid, and the tax would expire with the year, and he thought the time had come when the poor of London should cease to pay the additional tax upon an article of such necessity as coal. He felt it to be his duty to vote against the proposition of the noble Lord.
 Colonel Rawdon  said, that after the alteration made by the learned Lord Advocate, he should certainly not persist in bringing forward the Amendment of which he had given notice.
 Colonel Rawdon  thought the proposition of the hon. and learned Advocate was a fair one. He desired to see the Irishman in Scotland placed upon the same footing as the Scotchman in Ireland.
 Mr. Hume  would ask who could possibly benefit from the proposed improvements, except the owners of the property in the neighbourhood where they were carried on? and undoubtedly they were the parties who ought to bear the cost. The noble Lord had alluded to three Committees who had been in favour of the plan; but not one Coal Committee which had sat within these ten years but had made every endeavour to get the tax abolished. Even the last Committee, of which the noble Lord had been chairman, were nearly unanimous against his plan; and he did not consider it fair that he should bring it forward in the House, where he hoped to carry it, by the aid of Her Majesty's Government. He would, indeed, be sorry if the House should support the noble Lord. He would give all the opposition in his power to the further continuance of the iniquitous tax.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that he had a Motion for to-morrow, respecting the recall of Lord Ellenborough from India; but he felt, under all the circumstances of the case, bound to abandon the Motion.
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  approved of the alterations proposed by the Lord Advocate. He thought that after five years' industrial labour, a man earned a right to settlement; and he believed, that if the law was properly observed by residents in Scotland, they would have none but useful Irishmen in that country.
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  hoped that some explanation from the proper quarter would be given of this anomalous clause. It was unconstitutional in principle, and its operation would be most unfair and unjust to the poor.
 Mr. Borthwick  said, that by the law of 1579 in Scotland, as by the law of the same year in England, the able-bodied poor were to be provided with work, and the proviso in this clause would do away with the old law.
 Mr. Borthwick  was sure the workhouse test would not suit Scotland; it was only calculated to destroy the independence of the people. The able-bodied poor were not now entitled to relief in the sense in which other poor were; but it was neither the law nor the practice in Scotland to exclude them from all relief when starving. The best way would be to move the omission of the proviso.
 Mr. Milner Gibson  asked whether General Rosas, of Buenos Ayres, had the right to stop the navigation of the river Plate, and to prevent communication with Paraguay by those waters; and whether the British Government had acknowledged the right of General Rosas to close the navigation of the river Plate to foreign vessels?
 Mr. Wakley  could not support the
 490
After a few words from  Mr. Ross and Mr. Baine , in support of the clause,
 Mr. Ewart  moved that the proviso—
 "That nothing herein contained shall be held to confer a right to demand relief on able-bodied persons out of employment"—be omitted.
 Mr. Ewart  thought the law, being ambiguous, ought to be settled by this Act; but the present clause seemed to exclude able-bodied poor from relief, even when only occasionally destitute.
 Mr. Lockhart  thought the alteration introduced into the clause affecting the Irish paupers, merited the most serious attention of hon. Members opposite.
 Mr. S. Crawford  agreed that the proviso had better be excluded. If the able-bodied poor had a right to relief, it ought not to be taken away, particularly when the clearance system had been prevailing, as it had been proved to be, in some parts of Scotland.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  moved to expunge the proviso at the end of the clause, enacting—
 "That it shall not be competent for any Court of Law to entertain or decide any action relative to the amount of relief granted by parochial Boards, unless the Board of Supervision shall previously have declared that there is a just cause of action, as hereinbefore provided."
 Sir Charles Lemon  was understood to say, that the Committee did inquire whether a substitute could not be discovered for the present tax, but had come to the conclusion that such could not be found.
 Sir J. Graham , in reply, stated that after a conference with the Judge who tried the case, and after further investigation, being satisfied of the innocence of Joseph Mason with respect to the crime for which he was convicted and sentenced to transportation; and that another party was guilty of that crime, he had considered it to be his duty to advise the Crown to give a pardon to this person, and this was accordingly done on the 1st of January last. He had given directions also that Joseph Mason should be immediately provided with a free passage to England. He believed that the first intelligence of the return of this person would be by the arrival of the individual himself.
 Sir J. M'Taggart  objected most strongly to the proposed alteration in the law of settlement in Scotland as regarded the Irish. In the district with which he was connected, and which he consequently best knew, the Scotch very seriously felt their irruption. On looking at the roll of the poor in his own parish, he found that four-fifths of those receiving relief were Irish. The influx was principally from Donaghadee to Portpatrick. One day, when he was crossing over from Ireland to the latter port, he said to an Irish labourer, who was a passenger in the same vessel, "Well, Pat, and what takes you to Scotland?" "Oh, an sure your Honour," replied the fellow, "it is not want, for we've plenty of that at home." He objected to any alteration in the clause.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the object contemplated by his noble Friend was not the mere ornament of the metropolis, but that his proposal was simply to constitute a fund for public improvements, which could not be appropriated without the sanction of Parliament; and when his noble Friend asked the House to let him appropriate this fund, he was desirous expressly to provide by it the means of promoting the health and comfort of those districts of the metropolis where, from the crowded state of the buildings and dwelling-houses, there was the greatest liability to disease. Of late years very general attention had been called to this important subject. He (Sir R. Peel) would confine himself now to the metropolis, and to the particular parts of it, the salubrity of which it was proposed to promote; and, in so doing, he felt it his duty to call the attention of the Committee to specific facts, connected with the state of those parts of the metropolis. Dr. South-wood Smith, a gentleman of great talent and experience, had directed his attention to this subject, and had personally observed the condition of the metropolis in its several districts. He had attended for many years at the Fever Hospital, and observed:
 "The records of the London Fever Hospital prove, unhappily, that there are certain localities in the metropolis and its vicinity which are the constant seats of fever, from which this disease is never absent, although it may be found to prevail less extensively and with less severity in some years and some seasons than in others, but still in which it is incessantly committing its ravages." 483 "There are many districts in which fever is always so prevalent that the localities in question may be regarded as the ordinary seats of that disease." "From the commencement of January to April in the present year, we have actually received into the wards of the hospital five hundred fever patients, and during a considerable portion of that time applications for admission have been refused, at the rate of thirty or forty a day, in consequence of there being no accommodation for them." "In some districts there is hardly a single house in which fever has not prevailed, and in some cases hardly a single room in a house in which it was not to be found. I have observed this in particular to be the case in certain localities about Bethnal-green." 484 l.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the noble Lord, when the extracts promised were laid on the Table, would be able to form a judgment how far they gave an insight into the contemplated policy of Government with reference to New Zealand, and could act according to his then view of the matter. He must confess he did not consider they would enable the House to form a judgment as to the general policy assigned to Captain Grey; but, he must repeat, he did not hold it consistent with his public duty to give, at present, any fuller information on the subject.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that General Rosas, in the assertion of belligerent rights, had intimated an intention to establish a blockade of the waters referred to; and the British Government had expressed its disposition to assent to the blockade, on the condition that it should be generally enforced. The French Government had, in the first instance, claimed that French vessels should be exempted; and Great Britain then of course refused to permit the blockade. Subsequently, however, France, it was understood, had professed her willingness to have her vessels included in the operation of the blockade; and Her Majesty's Government then also assented on the condition, as before, that the blockade was to be, so long as it lasted, of universal application. As to the Paraguay, General Rosas, occupying both banks of that river, claimed the right of preventing navigation upon it. With reference to the Plate river, the blockade of that river required the consent of the other Powers, and Great Britain had assented on the conditions he had stated.
 477
 Sir R. Peel  must answer now, as he had answered on a former night the same question, that Captain Grey not being as yet in New Zealand, there would be, with reference to the large proportion of the instructions forwarded for his guidance when he arrived, great inconvenience in making those instructions public at present. There might be circumstances to prevent Captain Grey from reaching New Zealand for a time, a contingency which Government had framed arrangements to meet, and which rendered it additionally
 478
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  must abstain from saying anything that might be construed into an opinion, respecting the late unfortunate transaction, pending the inquiry now being prosecuted by a competent tribunal. He might observe, however, as to the presence of magistrates on the occasion, that he believed several magistrates had been present during the day, though none remained till the time when the unhappy affray occurred, which was at nine o'clock in the evening. With reference to the order suggested by the hon. Gentleman, he must decline at present giving any answer respecting it.
 Mr. G. Craig  complained, that the provisions of this Bill should be abandoned in this wholesale way. He must say, he thought the Scotch Members were not treated with proper respect, when important alterations were introduced of which they had received no intimation.
 Mr. Hutt  regretted that the noble Lord (the Earl of Lincoln) had come forward as the advocate of such a measure as this. It was a proposition for laying a tax upon the poorer classes, in opposition to every principle of sound policy. He objected to the principle of the tax—not to its amount; but the question of principle had been altogether abandoned by the noble Lord. Already the amount of taxation to be paid by coal coming from the north of England
 486
 Sir W. Somerville  hastened to express the satisfaction with which he witnessed the favourable change made in the Bill so far as the natives of Ireland were concerned. He was quite certain that the sentiment of hospitality which inspired that alteration, was felt, to an equal if not a greater degree, amongst his countrymen for strangers. Indeed, he could quote instances in which, amongst the applicants for relief in a district in the south of Ireland, preference had been given to Scotchmen over Irishmen, purely from a generous desire to relieve the stranger first.
 Viscount Clements  said, that a great many Scotchmen were employed in Ireland in confidential and lucrative situations; therefore no undue impediment should be put in the way of the Irish acquiring settlements in Scotland.
 Viscount Howick  said, that this bill would tax the consumers of coal in the valley of the Thames, in order to make improvements in which they had no interest whatever. He knew the condition of the labouring classes in that district, and he was aware that in Staines, and Datchet, and Windsor, the high price of coals was a serious evil to the working classes. When he looked to the condition of the working classes in that district, as compared with the condition of the same class in his native county, he could not avoid remarking the inferiority of the condition of the labouring classes in the valley of the Thames, and he attributed much of that to the price of fuel; he was, therefore, opposed to this tax upon coal for a purpose in which a great number of the consumers had no interest. Another objection to the tax, was its indirect operation as regarded the poor man, who in consequence of buying his coal in small quantities, would be obliged to pay twopence instead of a penny a ton as a tax. It would be highly desirable to expend a considerable outlay in improving localities
 482
 Viscount Howick  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, whether he proposed to lay the instructions sent out to Captain Grey on the Table of the House, before they were called upon to vote the Supplemental Estimate for New Zealand?
 Viscount Howick  begged to ask whether the extracts promised by the right hon. Baronet were such as would give the House a general notion of the policy which the Government proposed to act upon for the future, with reference to New Zealand? He, and those who thought with him, considered that the past calamities of the Colony arose from the past policy of the Government; and before Parliament separated, they believed it to be absolutely necessary—should the future policy of the Government with New Zealand, as far as it could be collected, not promise to be more satisfactory than the past—to have another discussion on the subject. He hoped the right hon. Baronet would give, at all events, such extracts from the instructions as would enable the House to form a general judgment as to the policy they contemplated, ere it was called upon to meet a heavy additional demand, occasioned entirely by the past errors of Government.
 Mr. V. Smith  defended the conduct of the Commissioners generally, and especially with respect to the case of Mr. Percival.
 The Chairman  then proceeded to read the clause, when
 Mr. Vernon Smith  defended the appointment of the unpaid Commissioners. His duties as a Commissioner were so onerous that he was sure that it would be difficult, if not impossible, to induce the same number of gentlemen to supply their place if they were now to resign those offices.
 Mr. Gladstone  hoped the House would not consider him guilty of officious presumption in rising at that period of the debate to state those arguments which appeared to him conclusive against the Motion of the noble Lord (Palmerston); for although the House would properly look to the Government for a defence against the serious charges which the noble Lord had preferred against them, and although he had not now the honour of being a Member of the Government, yet he was conscious of his share of the responsibility which attached to the measure of the Government with respect to the Sugar Duties; and he freely and at once admitted that the responsibility of having joined in their recommendation involved him in a share of the responsibility which now attached to the refusal on the part of the Government of the demand of Spain.
 555 556 557 in extenso 558 "The intention of His Catholic Majesty is not in any manner to cancel all the stipulations contained in the above-mentioned Treaties. He declares, on the contrary, from henceforth, that he is disposed to maintain all the privileges, facilities, and advantages expressed in the old Treaties, as far as they shall be reciprocal, or compensated by equivalent advantages." 559 560 561 "Although the Treaty of 1814 re-enacted the Treaties which existed prior to 1796, it did not expressly specify which Treaties, nor what Articles of them, which were necessary, there being great contradiction in the stipulations of those Treaties, some of them had provided for a reciprocity which did not exist; and that the Treaty of 1814 could therefore be understood only as renewing good understanding, harmony, and mercantile relations in general between the two countries." 562 563 564 "In the event of the commerce of the Spanish American possessions being open to foreign nations, His Catholic Majesty promises that Great Britain shall be admitted to trade with those possessions as the most favoured nations." de novo 565 Palmerston: 566 567 568 Palmerston: 569 570 571 l. s., l., l., l. s. l. s.; l.; l. s.; l.; l.; l. s. 572 573 Hertslet. "There shall be reciprocal liberty of commerce and navigation between and amongst the subjects of the two high contracting parties; and the subjects of the two Sovereigns respectively, shall not pay in the ports, harbours, roads, cities, towns, or places whatsoever in either kingdom, any other or higher duties, taxes, or imposts, under whatsoever names designated or included, than those which are there paid by the subjects of the most favoured nation; and the subjects of each of the high contracting parties shall enjoy the same rights, privileges, liberties, favours, immunities, and exemptions, in matters of commerce and navigation, that are granted, or may hereafter be granted, in either kingdom, to the subjects of the most favoured nation." 574 "No duty of customs or other impost shall be charged upon any goods the produce of one country, upon importation, by sea or by land, from such country into the other, higher than the duty or impost charged upon goods of the same kind the produce of or imported from any other country; and Her Majesty the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and His Majesty the King of the Netherlands, do hereby bind and engage themselves, not to grant any favour, privilege, or immunity, in matters of commerce and navigation, to the subjects of any other State, which shall not be also, and at the same time, extended to the subjects of the other high contracting party, gratuitously, if the concession in favour of the other State shall have been gratuitous; and on giving as nearly as possible the same compensation or equivalent, in case the concession shall have been conditional." "All rights, privileges, and immunities which have been conferred on the subjects or ships of Great Britain by the existing Capitulations and Treaties, are confirmed now and for ever, except in as far as they may be specifically altered by the present Convention; and it is moreover expressly stipulated, that all rights, privileges, or immunities which the Sublime Porte now grants, or may hereafter grant, to the ships and subjects of any other Foreign Power, or which it may suffer the
 575 Hertslet, "All articles being the growth, produce, or manufacture of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and its dependencies, and all merchandise, of whatsoever description, embarked in British vessels, and being the properly of British subjects, or being brought overland, or by sea, from other countries by the same, shall be admitted, as heretofore, into all parts of the Ottoman dominions, without exception, on the payment of 3 per cent. duty, calculated upon the value of such articles." 576 History of Commerce, "A duty of 4 d. d. l. l. l. l. l. "Snuff, if imported in British ships, is
 577 s. d. s. s. d. s. d., d. 
 
 Duty on American Tobacco. Duty on Spanish or Portuguese Tobacco. 
 s. d. s. d. 
 1789 1 3 3 0 
 1790 1 3 3 6 
 1796 1 7 4 6 
 1806 2 2 13–20ths. 5 4 19–20ths 
 1815 3 2 5 5½ 
 1819 4 0 6 0 
 1825 3 0 5 0 Ward: 578 l.; l. s. s. l. s. s. 579 J. Russell: 580 581 "The subjects of the Queen of Spain should be permuted to import into the United Kingdom all the productions of the territories or possessions of the Spanish Crown, paying thereupon no higher duties of customs than are paid by the subjects or citizens of the most favoured nations on the importation of like
 582 from the Opposition. 583 584 Palmerston: "While, therefore, the Treaty of 1667 gave generally to the subjects of Great Britain and Spain, respectively, the privileges of the most
 585 "The subjects and inhabitants, captains, masters of ships, mariners of the kingdoms, provinces and dominions of each confederate respectively, shall abstain and forbear to sail and trade in the ports and havens which have fortifications, castles, magazines, or warehouses; and in all other places whatsoever possessed by the other party in the West Indies, to wit, the King of Great Britain shall not sail unto, and trade in, the havens and places which the Catholic King holdeth in the said Indies; nor in like manner shall the subjects of the King of Spain sail unto, or trade in, those places which are possessed there by the King of Great Britain." 586 "That if at any time thereafter, either King should think fit to grant to the subjects of the other any general or particular license or privileges of navigating to, and trading in, any places under his obedience, the said navigation and trade should be exercised and maintained according to the form, tenour, and effect of the said permissions or privileges to be allowed and given." 587 "Whereas the conditions mentioned and referred to in the said Acts of Parliament have not in all respects been fulfilled by the Government of His Most Catholic Majesty the King of Spain; and, therefore, the privileges so granted as aforesaid by the Law of Navigation of foreign ships cannot lawfully be exercised
 588 primâ facie 589
 Mr. Gladstone : I did not say that that demand was made under the Treaty, but that the demand which the noble Lord made through Mr. Aston on the Spanish Government was made under the Treaty.
 The Attorney General  said, when the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had risen after the right hon. Member for Newark, he supposed he was proceeding to discuss the matter under consideration of the House. He understood that they had been invited by the noble Lord who opened this debate to consider the interpretation of the Treaties existing between this country and Spain, on which it was said this claim was put forward. The right hon. Member for Newark had discussed the questions arising out of the Treaty point by point; but the right hon. Gentleman opposite entirely abandoned this ground, and, flying off from the true issue, endeavoured to divert the attention of the House to questions of policy and expediency. He must be permitted to assume that the arguments of the right hon. Member for Newark were unanswerable; because if any answer could have been given, it would have been afforded by the right hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House. They were not there to inquire into the questions opened by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, but to inquire as to the construction of Treaties and the interpretation of compacts between this country and Spain. The latter country, it had been shown, had not regarded those Treaties in the light contended for on the other side. She only sought now, by this peculiar mode of interpretation, to secure the admission of sugar from her own Colonies of Cuba and Porto Rico, on the footing of the most favoured nation. He should confine himself strictly to the question before the House, whether the Foreign Office had put the correct construction on the Treaties with Spain. There were no rules of interpretation applicable to a private agreement between individuals, which did not also apply to the case before them. The only difference was, that
 597 598 "His Britannic Majesty does, on his part, and in his own name, and in that of his heirs and successors, promise and engage that all
 599 "No higher duty or other duties shall be imposed on the importation into the territories of His Britannic Majesty in Europe of any articles, the growth, produce, or manufacture of the United States, and no higher or other duties shall be imposed on the importation into the United States of any articles the growth, produce, or manufacture of His Britannic Majesty's territories in Europe, than are, or shall be, payable on the like articles, being the growth, produce, or manufacture of any other country; nor shall any higher or other duties or charges be imposed in either of the two countries on the exportation of any articles to His Britannic Majesty's territories
 600 "The subjects of their Majesties, trading respectively in the dominions of their said Majesties, shall not be bound to pay greater duties, or other imposts whatsoever, for their imports or exports, than shall be exacted of, and paid by, the subjects of the most favoured nation; and if it shall happen in time to come, that any diminution of duties or other advantages shall be granted by either side to any foreign nation, the subjects of each Crown shall reciprocally and fully enjoy the same. And it has been agreed, as is above-mentioned, concerning the rates of duties, so it is ordained as a general rule between their Majesties, that all and every one of their subjects shall, in all lands and places subject to the command of their respective Majesties, use and enjoy at least the same privileges, liberties, and immunities, concerning all imposts or duties whatsoever, which relate to persons, wares, merchandise, ships, freighting, mariners, navigation, and commerce, and enjoy the same favour in all things, as well in the courts of justice as in all those things which relate to trade, or any other trade whatsoever as the most favoured nation uses and enjoys, or may use and enjoy for the future, as is explained more at large in the Thirty-eighth Article of the Treaty of 1667, which is specially inserted in the foregoing Article." 601 602
 Lord Ashley  said, that the treasurer's accounts were a sufficient guarantee of the rectitude of the payments, and for the travelling expenses there was also sufficient evidence.
 Lord Ashley  denied that unpaid Commissioners were not so competent to perform their duties as paid ones. For himself, he would say that when he entered the Commission he did so with a determination to do his duty; and he considered himself as responsible for the performance of those duties as if he had been paid a hundred guineas a visit. As to the statement of the hon. Member for Finsbury, that one Commissioner would be sufficient, he asserted, without fear of contradiction, that it would be impossible for one individual to perform such onerous duties.
 Lord Ashley  bore testimony to the zeal and activity of the unpaid Commissioners. He himself had, during the last year, taken the chair at the meetings of the Board thirty-four times, and each time the Board had sat no less than four hours.
 Lord Ashley  said, the appointments were all made without reference to any other feeling than that of completing the efficiency of the Board.
 Lord Ashley  could not tell the hon. Member for Finsbury the age of Dr. Turner; he should, at a guess, say he was about sixty-five; but he (Dr. Turner) was very well able to fulfil the duties of his office.
 Lord Ashley  said, that he had entered into no arrangements whatever.
 Lord Ashley  said, that the sum of 1,500 l.
 Lord Ashley  said, that the only return
 526
 Mr. Hawes  preferred a mixed board to one constituted of paid or of unpaid Commissioners alone.
 Mr. Hindley  thought that 1,000 l. The Times l.
 Mr. Barclay  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 Mr. Barclay  resumed. He differed from the Attorney General in his view of the case. It presented two points. One, the conduct of the Spanish Government; the other, the policy of Her Majesty's Government on the Sugar question. The noble Lord attacked one point as a feint to cover his assault on the other. Whatever were the correct interpretation of the Treaties with Spain, it was clear by that of 1670 that the Colonies of that country had no claim on Great Britain. At the same time, he thought it would be better to concede the same right to Spain as was granted to other countries. It was absurd to talk of the honour of Spain, a country which had violated all her obligations to this country on the subject of the Slave Trade—all her officers being engaged in that traffic. If the sugars of Cuba and Porto Rico were to be admitted, they should be admitted on the ground of self-interest, not on the ground of right or of honour. He maintained the inexpediency of allowing slave-grown sugar in the British market, on the ground of religion and humanity, though he admitted the discriminating clause was an innovation on the commercial code of this country. It was no argument to urge that coffee and cotton were slave-grown in favour of sugar; but they were not so destructive of human life. There was no inconsistency greater than that of the noble Lord in the course of that night in respect to the Slave Trade. It would be impossible to suppress that trade while the demand for slave-grown sugar was promoted by such notions as that of the noble Lord. [ Cries of
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought the subject had been sufficiently debated, and that adjournment was not necessary. ["Divide," "Go on."]
 Mr. Labouchere  scarcely supposed the right hon. Gentleman would resort to an unworthy ambiguity. When the British Minister at Madrid was instructed to press this demand on the Spanish Government, it must have been founded on the existing Commercial Treaty between the two Governments. Lord Aberdeen's letter was as follows:—
 Mr. Labouchere : When the right hon. Gentleman promised to speak at length on such a subject as that, it was impossible, from his known character, not to anticipate a speech of ingenuity and ability; but he must be permitted to say, that if the right hon. Gentleman had had greater confidence in the strength of his case, he would have considerably shortened his speech. At all events, he should illustrate the soundness of his views, by making a much shorter speech. And he could not believe that to come to a just decision on a question of this kind, it was necessary to dwell on the nice and intricate points which the right hon. Gentleman had discussed.
 590 Gladstone:
 Mr. Warburton  suggested the adoption of a sliding scale of salary according to seniority.
 Mr. Warburton  saw no use in the declaration.
 Mr. Warburton  agreed with the hon. Member for Finsbury, that paid Commissioners were better than unpaid ones; but, at the same time, he thought there should be unpaid gentlemen connected with the Commission, who would represent persons of moderate fortunes who were afflicted with insanity.
 Mr. Brotherton  would give his vote for the larger salary, because it would provide men of greater efficiency.
 Mr. Duncombe  moved, as an Amendment to leave out the words "five hundred," so that the salaries should all be reduced to 1,000 l.
 Mr. Duncombe  wished to know whether any arrangement had been made between the noble Lord (Lord Ashley) and those parties who had been put in nomination for those offices?
 Mr. Duncombe  did not object to the payment of 1,500 l. l. l. l., l.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  wished to hear from Lord Ashley the age of Dr. Turner, and the period of his service as a Commissioner. He might have been appointed fourteen and a-half years ago, and he was now, in six months, under this new Act, to receive a pension of 750 l.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that they ought to have paid Commissioners, responsible to the Government and the country, and not men who were part amateurs, and part professional, and who were responsible to nobody. Before they passed this clause, which made the Commission permanent, they ought to have evidence that the Commissioners had hitherto done their duty. He asserted that they had not. He thought they ought to see if they could not have a better Commission formed than at present existed. He would not press his Motion for the postponement of the clause, but would call upon the Chairman to read the clause at length.
 Mr. Duncombe  had no idea of degrading any of the Commissoners by calling them amateurs. He was sure that paid Commissioners would be found to discharge their duties better and more fully. The present Board had visited various lunatic asylums about three or four times during the last eighteen months, and then always at an hour when he was sure that everything was prepared for their reception. They ought to go when they were not expected. He would beg to ask how many asylums the noble Lord, or any member of the Board, had visited lately?
 Mr. T. Duncombe  again objected to the appointment of any unpaid Commissioners. He could see no advantage in having one of the Commissioners in the House; it would not make the Board more responsible. He wished to see them responsible to the Lord Chancellor or the Secretary of State. He would beg leave to move the omission of the names of the amateur Commissioners. The hon. Member moved to omit all the words mentioning the unpaid Commissioner.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that this clause had better be postponed until they had got the returns from the Inspectors in Lunacy of the cost of visiting the several houses, and their state; but this was a part of the plan of keeping the House in the dark.
 Mr. Wakley  felt convinced that the present Commission would never work well. He objected even to three Commissioners, believing that one Commissioner, who should be responsible to the Home Office for his actions, would do more good than three or even eleven Commissioners, of which the present Commission was composed. He thought that amateur Commissioners could never do that good for the public that one properly paid Commissioner could do. It had been asserted that insanity was a purely mental malady; now he asserted that in nine cases out of ten it arose from disease. There was no case of insanity without structural derangement. He trusted that
 527
 Mr. Wakley  took the same view of the case, and contended, that after what the House had done last night, when it had openly declared that under no circumstances should relief be given to the able-bodied poor in Scotland, and that as soon as a poor roan was deprived of employment, he was to support himself how he could, or starve along with his destitute family—after such a vote, to propose now large retiring pensions to men who had
 529
 Mr. Wakley  differed from his hon. Colleague (Mr. Duncombe) as to the propriety of awarding a higher salary to the medical, than to the legal Commissioners. Such an arrangement would, in his opinion, be decidedly unjust. He would recommend that barristers should be appointed after five years standing at the Bar, and not after ten years.
 Mr. Christie  protested against granting retiring pensions to individuals who had held the office of Commissioner, and while in that position had received very large salaries.
 Mr. Christie  trusted the noble Lord would not only be induced to reconsider the present clause, but the effect of the Bill altogether. He was sorry that his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury did not mean to press his Motion for postponing the clause.
 Sir C. Napier  hoped the noble Lord would reconsider the clause. He considered that an unpaid board was not so good as a paid one.
 Sir C. Napier  contended that 1,000 l.
 Sir C. Napier  said, that before he received his half-pay he was obliged to make a declaration; and he did not see why these gentlemen should not be subjected to the same test before they received their salaries.
 Mr. F. T. Baring  said, he felt strongly the inconvenience of trespassing upon the House at that late hour; but he could not so far forget his character as to appear to be influenced in the vote which he was about to give by mere party purposes. He agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, that no question of policy should persuade them to give up the real and just construction of the Treaty. But he also thought that when Spain called upon them to adopt her construction of the Treaties, it was worth their while to consider whether that construction was a fair one towards themselves. He thought that when the subject became a question for a long State Paper, it should become a consideration whether Spain was not offering to them what they should be of all things in the world most anxious to receive from her. He admitted the talent of the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, who indeed never spoke without manifesting great ability; but he set aside entirely the whole argument of Lord Aberdeen. The argument of the right hon. Gentleman was altogether contrary to the argument of Lord Aberdeen. The right hon. Gentleman indeed said, that he did not adopt the argument as put in Lord Aberdeen's letter; and the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down differed from the right hon. Gentleman, and he also did not adopt the argument of Lord Aberdeen. The right hon. Gentleman wished to show that the ancient Treaties with Spain had ceased to exist. If they
 603 "Admitting that the Treaty of 1667 conferred upon the subjects of Spain, the position of the most favoured nation in British ports, yet that privilege could not, subsequently to 1670, have belonged to Spanish West India trade, because, under the terms of the Treaty of 1670, such trade could not have been carried on with British ports." "While, therefore, the Treaty of 1667 gave generally to the subjects of Great Britain and Spain respectively the privileges of the most favoured nation, the trade belonging to the West Indian Colonies of the two countries
 604 "As far as not repugnant with the Articles in the latter Treaty." "In the event of the commerce of the Spanish American possessions being opened to foreign nations, His Catholic Majesty promises that Great Britain shall be admitted to trade with those possessions as the most favoured nation." 605 606 "And the said subjects shall be used in Spain in the same manner as the most favoured nation, and consequently all nations shall pay the same duties on wool and other merchandise, which shall be brought into or carried out of these kingdoms by land, as the said subjects pay on the same goods which they shall import or export by sea." 607
 Sir G. Clerk  rose amidst loud cries of "Divide," which continued throughout the whole of the right hon. Gentleman's address to the House. He denied that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) was justified in charging the Government with not having kept faith with Spain. What construction had the Parliament of England in 1668 put upon the Treaty of 1667? It was obvious what the construction was which they put upon it, from the fact that they imposed a differential duty on Spanish wine. Though that was done so recently after the Treaty, Spain made no remonstrance. In 1686 again, a differential duty of 50 per cent. was laid upon Spanish wine. It was not until 1828 that we opened our Colonies to Spanish vessels. Did Spain, during all that time, even think of the Treaty of 1713? No, nor did she act upon it herself. In 1814, Spain levied upon American ships entering the port of Havana, a duty of one dollar; while upon British vessels she imposed a duty of a dollar and a half. Mr. Canning, on our part, remonstrated, and threatened to resort to retaliatory measures. The answer of Spain was, that she was acting on a principle of reciprocity with America. She made no allusion to the Treaty of 1713. Nothing could be so absurd as the supposition that Great Britain could enter into any such Treaty as that assumed by the noble Lord and the right hon. Gentleman. There were abundant authorities in favour of the course adopted on this occasion by the Government, from Mr. Pitt down to the right hon. Gentleman opposite, whose attempted Commercial Treaty with France was a distinct proof that
 608
 Sir J. Graham  would take upon himself all the responsibility of having recommended these appointments to the Lord Chancellor.
 Sir J. Graham  was anxious that the Commissioners named in the clause should be continued in the Commission.
 Sir J. Graham  contended that the appointment of unpaid Commissioners was desirable, because they were generally men without any professional bias—men of the world, and under the control of public opinion.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, there would always be found men in this country willing to undertake any sort of duties, however invidious, merely for the sake of the public good. He was sure, therefore, that there would always be a sufficient number of amateurs to undertake the office of Commissioners of Lunacy.
 Viscount Palmerston  rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice. He said: The subject I am about to bring under the notice of the House is one of much importance both to the honour and the interests of the kingdom. It is of importance to its honour, inasmuch as it relates to the question whether Treaties and engagements entered into by the Crown, have or have not been faithfully fulfilled; and it bears upon the interests of the country, because it raises the question, whether commercial privileges and advantages which were secured to this country by ancient Treaties have or have not been want only rejected, and heedlessly thrown away. The question arises in consequence of the correspondence between the Spanish Minister at this Court and the British Government, copies of which were recently laid on the Table by command of Her Majesty. That correspondence
 531 532 533 pro tanto, 534 "Look! in this place ran Cassius' dagger through; See what a rent the envious Casca made." 535 536 "It is agreed and concluded, that the people and subjects of the King of Great Britain and of the King of Spain, shall have and enjoy in the respective lands, seas, ports, havens, roads, and territories of the one or the other, and in all places whatsoever, the same privileges, securities, liberties, and immunities, whether they concern their persons or trade, with all the beneficial clauses and circumstances which have been granted, or shall be hereafter granted, by either of the said Kings, to the Most Christian King, the States-General of the United Provinces, the Hanse Towns, or any other Kingdom or State whatsoever, in as full, ample, and beneficial a manner as if the same were particularly mentioned and inserted in his Treaty." 537 "It is further agreed and concluded as a general rule, that all and singular the subjects of each kingdom shall, in all countries and places on both sides, have and enjoy at least the same privileges, liberties, and immunities as to all duties, impositions, or customs whatsoever, relating to persons, goods, and merchandises, ships, freight, seamen, navigation, and commerce, and shall have the like favour in all things as the subjects of France or any other foreign nation the most favoured have, possess, and enjoy, or at any time hereafter may have, possess, or enjoy." "The subjects of their Majesties, trading respectively in the dominions of their said Majesties, shall not be bound to pay greater duties or other imposts whatsoever, for their imports or exports, than shall be exacted of, and paid by, the subjects of the most favoured nation; and if it shall happen in time to come that any diminution of duties, or other advantages, shall be granted by either side to any foreign nation, the subjects of each Crown shall reciprocally and fully enjoy the same. And as it has been agreed, as is above-mentioned, concerning the rates of duties, so it is ordained as a general rule between their Majesties, that all and every one of their subjects shall, in all lands and places subject to the command of their respective Majesties, use and enjoy at least the same privileges, liberties, and immunities, concerning all imposts or duties whatsoever, which relate to persons, wares, merchandise, ships, freighting, mariners, navigation, and commerce, and enjoy the same favour in all things (as well in the courts of justice as in all those things which relate to trade, or any other right whatsoever) as the most favoured nation uses and enjoys, or may use and enjoy for the future, as is explained more at large in the Thirty-eighth Article of the Treaty of 1667, which is specially inserted in the foregoing Article." 538 "You cannot make use of that objection, because you have admitted on the terms set forth the produce of our Colonies of the Philippine Islands, by exempting the sugars of those islands specifically from the high duties which are the object of the present application, and therefore it is not because Cuba is a Colony that you can resist my demand." "You may, perhaps, tell us, that your recent laws make a distinction between sugar manufactured by slaves, and sugar the produce of free labour. But," replies the Duke, "on the part of my Government I deny that a difference in the mode of manufacture constitutes any valid ground on which you can take your stand in maintaining a difference of duty. The Treaty admits of no such difference on any such ground." "You cannot set aside the provisions of long-established Treaties made by both countries by an enactment unilateral, made by one party without the consent of the other; you cannot thus establish a practice which is fatal to a claim founded on Treaties made by mutual consent." 539 540 541 Gladstone: "a Treaty between the kingdom of Spain and Great Britain, for the purpose of excluding the Colonies of the two countries from the commercial advantages which were secured to the Mother Countries under the Treaty of 1667?" 542 "Inasmuch as the good feeling between Great Britain and Spain had been interrupted in America, this Treaty was intended to reestablish the good understanding which before existed between Spain and Great Britain," &c. "That there shall be a universal peace, true and sincere amity in America, as in the other parts of the world, between the Most Serene Kings of Great Britain and Spain, their heirs and successors, and between the kingdoms, states, plantations, colonies, forts, cities, islands, and dominions, without any distinction of place, belonging unto either of them; and between the people and inhabitants, under their respective obedience, which shall endure from this day for ever, and be observed inviolably, as well by land as by sea and fresh waters, so as to promote each the welfare and advantage of the other, and favour and assist one another with mutual love; and that everywhere, as well in those remoter countries as in those that are nearer, the faithful offices of good neighbourhood and friendship may be exercised and increased between them." "The subjects and inhabitants, captains, masters of ships, mariners of the kingdoms, provinces, and dominions of each confederate respectively, shall abstain and forbear to sail and trade in the ports and havens which have fortifications, castles, magazines or warehouses, and in all other places whatsoever,
 543 544 Gladstone: "A direct commerce shall be maintained in my American dominions with the subjects of countries who are the friends of Spain, and they shall be admitted to trade there in the same manner as in the ports of Spain." 545 546 "The engagement in the Treaty of 1814 was concluded in the expectation that the troubles and disturbances which then prevailed in the Spanish-American provinces would cease, and that the subjects of those provinces would return to their allegiance to the lawful Sovereign;" —"the most effectual measures for preventing his subjects from furnishing arms, ammunition, or any other warlike article, to the revolted States in America." 547 548 549 550 551 552 553 554 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, stating that this House have taken into their consideration the Papers which, by Her Majesty's gracious Command, have lately been laid before them, containing Copies of a Correspondence which has recently taken place between the Spanish Minister at Her Majesty's Court and Her Majesty's Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, on the subject of a claim made by the Spanish Government, in virtue of the Treaties subsisting between the Crowns of Great Britain and of Spain; and praying Her Majesty to direct that the subjects of the Queen of Spain should be permitted to import into the United Kingdom all the productions of the Territories or Possessions of the Spanish Crown, paying thereupon no higher Duties of Customs than are paid by the subjects or citizens of the most favoured Nations, on the importation of like articles being the production of the Territories or Possessions of such Nations."
 Viscount Palmerston : Sir, after the able speeches of my two right hon. Friends, it would be presumptuous on my
 609 plus minus 610 611
 Sir T. Fremantle  moved "That the Houses and resolve itself into Committee on this houl]"
 Sir R. Ferguson  objected to proceeding with the Bill at that hour.
 Mr. Warburton  moved to omit all the words after "that," for the purpose of inserting the following words:—
 "Any superannuation allowance to be granted to any paid Commissioner appointed, or to be appointed, under this Act, shall be granted only as a Compensation for services performed under this Act, and shall be subject to the provisions of an Act passed in the fourth and fifth years of His late Majesty William the Fourth, in respect of such officers and clerks as might enter the public service after the 4th day of August, 1829."
 Mr. T. Duncombe  protested against proceeding with the consideration of the Bill in the absence of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department. The hon. Member was proceeding, when the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department took his seat; and the hon. Member said he would not further oppose the Motion.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  objected altogether to granting retiring pensions to the Commissioners, and should take the sense of the House on the point. Why should these Commissioners be placed in a better situation than the Poor Law Commissioners and the Inspectors of prisons? Their duties were performed principally for the benefit of the rich, who ought to provide for their maintenance. He recommended that the duration of the Commission should be limited for the present to three years. He again urged on the Government the policy of postponing the Bill till next Session, when they would be enabled to bring in a satisfactory measure, after due deliberation, and a careful consideration of suggested amendments. As, however, Government seemed resolved to force the Bill through Parliament, in despite of opposition, and with an attendance of Members absurdly inadequate to the consideration of such a question, he should feel it his duty to offer every clause his most strenuous opposition.
 Mr. Wakley  moved "That no person should be hereafter appointed to the Commission who was above the age of forty-five years."
 Mr. S. Crawford  objected to any superannuation allowance. He concurred with the hon. Member for Finsbury in recommending the postponement of the Bill.
 Sir J. Graham  referred to the conduct of those having charge of the Bill, with reference to the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Kendal, in proof of the readiness with which they were willing to acquiesce in any reasonable suggestion. It would be better to discuss the objections to the various clauses in their regular order. He should, however, deceive the hon. Member, if he held out any hope that he could consent to limit the duration of the Commission.
 Mr. Becket Denison  regretted deeply that the hon. Member for Rochdale, whose character for benevolence stood very high in that House as well as out of it, should be found to oppose the Bill, especially as his influence and importance among the labouring poor were very great. He was sure that if that hon. Gentleman should succeed in rejecting the Bill, he would sooner or later regret that success; for he would find that he had been doing a great injury to the labouring poor residing on the borders of the commons which, by this Bill, would be enclosed. He would give his most cordial consent to the Bill.
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, that sufficient time had been given for discussion on this Bill, since it had been before the public nearly three years. The measure, he was
 619
 The Earl of Lincoln  moved that Mr. Speaker do leave the Chair, for the House to go into Committee on the Drainage of Lands Bill.
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, that none of the Commissioners, or Assistant Commissioners, would venture to proceed anywhere to undertake surveys or operations provided by this law, without being first applied to by the owner of the land.
 Sir R. Ferguson  objected to the clause, and for the same reasons.
 The Attorney General  quoted some cases to show that this rule held good at Common Law in all summary jurisdictions.
 Sir Robert Ferguson  thought that some explanation was necessary.
 The Earl of Lincoln  moved the Order of the Day for the Third Reading of the Inclosure of Commons Bill.
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, that it was his intention to bring in and print a Bill relating to the Health of Towns, in order that it might be circulated during the recess.
 Sir R. Peel,  in rising to move the Second Reading of the Jewish Disabilities Removal Bill, said—Mr. Speaker, I am now about to call the attention of the House to a Bill which has been sent down to this House from the other branch of the Legislature, and which has for its object the removal of all obstacles to the admission of members of the Jewish persuasion to municipal offices. The Bill has received the almost unanimous support of the other branch of the Legislature; and I do trust that I shall be enabled to give such an explanation of the objects of the Bill, and the reasons upon which it is founded, as will induce the House to receive with equal favour the measure which has been sent for our concurrence by the other House of Parliament. The object of the Bill is to remove every impediment whatever, of every kind, to the admission of Jews to municipal offices—to any office of magistrate, of trust, and of emolument, connected with municipal corporations. I will first state what is the great impediment which at present exists to the admission of Jews to these corporate offices. It exists in consequence of the enactment which was passed through Parliament in 1828, for the purpose of repealing the Acts called the Test and Corporation Acts, and of substituting in their room a declaration in lieu of a Sacramental
 623 624 625 "Every person elected to the office of mayor, alderman, or any office of magistracy or trust in any municipal corporation, is required within one calendar month next before his admission to make and sub scribe the following declaration:—'I, A.B., do solemnly declare that I will never exercise any power, authority, or influence which I may possess by virtue of the office—to injure or weaken the Protestant Church, as it is by law established within this realm, or to disturb it in the possession of any rights or privileges to which it is by law entitled." 626 627
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that the speech of his
 628 629 per saltum, 630 631 632
 Mr. Plumptre  seconded the Amendment. If the Members of that House were not Christian men, it signified little with whom they were associated in their legislation; but if they professed to be Christians, it behoved them to avoid the admission of any principle which was opposed to the interests of Christianity. He was persuaded that this measure would not be approved of by the great mass of the people of this country, and he regretted to find that not only in this measure, but also in others which had been passed in the course of this Session, the Government had proposed, and the House sanctioned, a course which was inconsistent with the honour and glory of God, and opposed to the true principles of religion. Any man who had a sense, or at least a lively sense, of what we all owe the Divine Author of Christianity, would be cautious how he gave his support to any measure not in strict accordance with its dictates; and he feared that if the House countenanced this proposition, they would be forfeiting the favour of Almighty God. If we incurred that fatal penalty, where would be the strength, the security, or the lasting prosperity of this nation? The House was now called upon to take a step which in his conscience he believed would provoke the Divine displeasure; and if they acceded to it, they would be deserting the duty which it became them as
 633
 Lord John Russell : Sir, the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has put the question before the House on grounds which I find it impossible to avoid noticing. The hon. Member informs us that it is his opinion that it is inconsistent with our duties as Christians to assent to the second reading of the Bill before us, and thereby incur the displeasure of the Most High. Those are, no doubt, his sincere sentiments; but if the hon. Gentleman considers the subject a little, he will see that he ought not to be satisfied with the rejection of this Bill alone. The right hon. Gentleman who moved the second reading of the Bill showed that various offices were filled in this country by Jews—that Jews hold the office of magistrate—an office which I consider of very great importance, as partaking of the administration of justice, and approaching thereby to the sovereign power. That office is held by Jews; and the hon. Gentleman himself referred to an instance in his own county of a Jew having been high sheriff. If the hon. Gentleman thinks that, by pemitting that, we incur the displeasure of the Most High, and that we are acting inconsistently with our duty as Christians, he should not have suffered years to
 634 635 636 637 "If it was possible to draw a broad line of principle between a Bill to admit Jews to municipal offices, and one to permit them to hold other offices, including seats in Parliament, the subject wouid be different from that which they had now to discuss: but he was satisfied that such a line could not be drawn; and the advocates of this measure must, to be consistent, follow it up with another, throwing open to Jews seats in Parliament, and all other offices which might be held by Christians…. His reason for opposing the Bill was this—that the profession of the Jews was of itself in the nature of a disqualification for legislative office in a country where Christianity was interwoven with the institutions of the State." "The right hon. Gentleman complained that this particular measure was opposed, as if it involved the admission of Jews to all privileges
 638 639
 Mr. Trelawny  said, that he must appeal to the patience of the House, under the circumstances in which he was placed, although there was evidently a desire to divide as soon as possible. He had put a Notice of Motion on the Books last year on the subject before the House, and had then given way in deference to a wish of the right hon. Gentleman at the head of
 640 sui generis, 641 l. l. 642
 Mr. Monckton Milnes  said he should support the measure, and regretted that any prejudice against admitting the Jews to civil privileges should exist. He had lately witnessed in the Government of Prussia a most dangerous and immoral effect, arising from the encouragement given to those prejudices against the Jewish nation. He had there seen, in the midst of a highly civilized community, an animosity against this race hardly surpassed in the United States by that existing between the black and white races. He was sure this measure, and every other the House could pass of a similar tendency, would be productive of useful and beneficial effects, not only to the Jews of this country, but to those of every other nation where they were at present so cruelly persecuted. He was sure that the disabilities to which the Jews were subjected were injurious to those who imposed them; while the pride thus fostered, and the principles encouraged, were totally opposite to the spirit of Christian charity. He was convinced that civil rights and privileges should be extended as far as was consistent with the safety and security of the Christian religion. He congratulated the Jews on their present position. On a former occasion only two Members supported a similar attempt to remove their disabilities, and he himself was then held up to obloquy for so doing. He was gratified to find that in supporting their claims now, he was only going with the stream. He did not question the motives which induced hon. Members who formerly opposed the claims of the Jews now to support them; but he should look with great curiosity at their names in the division.
 Mr. Duncan  approved of the provision of the clause, requiring a five years' industrial residence to obtain a settlement. He contended that its application was universal.
 Mr. Vernon Smith  recommended his hon. Friend not to press his Motion to a division.
 Colonel Sibthorp  had from the first opposed this Bill, and would still oppose it, because he thought proper time had not been given for its due consideration. There might be some good clauses in it; but it was of so important a nature that he should object to the Bill altogether, unless it were for some time postponed.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, though his objections to the Bill that had just passed were very great, his objections to the present were even stronger; for its object seemed to him to be, the protection and screening of those who had benefited themselves at the expense of others, and because it gave such great power to the Commissioners to interfere with the private property of gentlemen.
 The Lord Advocate  having moved the Order of the Day for a Committee of the whole House on the Poor Law Amendment (Scotland) Bill,
 Mr. Eliot Yorke  hoped that the House would at once proceed with the considertion of the Bill, as it was calculated to be of great benefit to all classes of the community.
 Mr. Darby  thought that Englishmen, Scotchmen, and Irishmen, should be put on the same footing respectively in the three countries. He approved of the clause as effecting this object.
 Mr. George Hamilton  said, after the explanation of the right hon. Baronet, the only question was, whether the clause carried out the intention. The right hon. Baronet stated, it was not intended to give the Commissioners the power of trying a  bonâ fide bonâ fide
 Mr. George Hamilton  urged the introduction of such a provision. It was desirable that the intention of the Legislature should be clearly expressed.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  felt himself relieved from going deeply into the question by the great discrepancy between the position of the hon. Member for Manchester, and that of the hon. Member for Coventry (Mr. Williams). Seeing the lateness of the Session, he had abstained from raising a discussion upon a topic which he knew, if entered upon, would have had the effect of postponing the passing a measure which he believed had proved useful to the community. The Bill, in fact, was only a renewal of the Acts which had passed in 1837, 1839, 1840, 1841, 1843, and 1845. The hon.
 649 de novo,
 Mr. Warburton  thought his hon. Friend might be perfectly satisfied with the result of the discussion, as he had obtained the
 651
 Mr. Brotherton  thought that it would have been a great hardship and injustice to throw out the Bill on account of the introduction of the objectionable clause; but he was glad to hear that the right hon. Gentleman proposed to bring in a Bill to prevent the injurious consequences which might result from that clause; and he hoped that the Standing Orders would be suspended to allow of the speedy passing of such a Bill.
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  objected to the hurried mode in which alterations had been introduced into the clause. He approved of the provision requiring five years' industrial residence.
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  said, all that had transpired in regard to this Bill showed the propriety of postponing this measure till a future Session. He had exhausted all fair means to effect the object, and he trusted that he should resort to none that were unfair. He must say that the Scottish Members had not been fairly treated in regard to these alterations, which had been introduced by the Government without any intimation whatever.
 Captain Jones  was of opinion that the clause, as at present worded, would certainly give that power to the Commissioners.
 Captain Jones  thought this clause extremely objectionable. It gave the Commissioners the power of trying questions of property probably to a large amount. It was true there was an appeal; but was it reasonable that parties should be drawn to such an appeal?
 Mr. Milner Gibson  begged to call the attention of the right hon. the Vice President of the Board of Trade to a Clause of an unprecedented nature which had been introduced into the Manchester and Liverpool Railroad Bill, which gave to the proprietors the power of amalgamating with other companies without any further application to Parliament. A similar clause had found its way into certain other Bills. He wished
 621
 Mr. M. Gibson  moved to add the following proviso to the 1st Clause:—
 "That the Proviso in the recited Act, that nothing therein contained shall extend to the loan or forbearance of any Money upon security of any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, or any estate therein, shall not be continued by this Act." l. 646 "That it is the opinion of this Committee, that the laws regulating or restraining the rate of interest have been extensively evaded, and have failed of the effect of imposing a maximum upon such rate; and that of late years, from the constant excess of the market rate of interest above the rate limited by law, they have added to the expense incurred by the borrowers on real security, and that such borrowers have been compelled to resort to the mode of granting annuities on lives, a mode which has been made a cover for obtaining higher interest than the rate limited by law, and has further subjected the borrowers to enormous charges, or forced them to make very disadvantageous sales of their estates." "That it is the opinion of this Committee that the present period, when the market rate of interest is below the legal rate, affords an opportunity peculiarly proper for the repeal of the said laws." "Has your experience enabled you to form an opinion as to the operation of the usury laws upon the landed interest?"—As far as my experience goes, I should say, that the laws against usury are very injurious to the landed interest. The effect of them, I think, is, that when the proprietors of estates are under the necessity of raising money at times when money is extremely scarce, they are obliged to raise it by the granting of annuities or in other modes extremely disadvantageous to themselves." "Have the usury laws been beneficial, or otherwise, to the landed proprietor?—They have been decidedly inimical to the interest
 647 "Are you aware of any inconvenience that would result from the repeal of those laws?—I have latterly turned that over frequently in my mind, and I entertain a confident opinion that the repeal of those laws would not in any manner prejudice the landed interest."
 Mr. Lockhart  said, the Bill as it now stood was in many important particulars different from the original measure, and he thought it was only fair that the people of Scotland should have an opportunity of considering it in its amended form; but he should not persist in his Motion for its postponement.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  inquired, whether it were the intention of the Government to proceed further with the Tenants' Compensation Bill?
 Mr. S. Crawford  said, that in 1843, he introduced a Bill having reference to the subject, and it was his intention to move for leave, before the termination of the present Session, to re-introduce it, in order that it might be under the consideration of the Government and the public during the recess. He trusted that, under these circumstances, no opposition would be offered to the introduction of the Bill.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  hoped that the hon. and gallant Colonel would not proceed with his opposition to this Bill, for he thought it was a reasonable Bill, and would be productive of great good.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  contended again that the mode of distribution of land, as proposed by this Bill, was most arbitrary and unjust; and as his objections had failed to be considered, he should feel it his duty to divide the House on the Question.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  felt it to be his duty again to state his objections to many parts of the Bill, as they had not been removed in its former stages. The Bill was calculated to benefit the landlords alone, and would not be advantageous to the working classes, who ought to be considered. In proof of what he staled, he would quote the evidence of Mr. H. Martin, of Hadlow, in Kent, who had stated that the rent of common land, which was formerly 16 s. l.
 Mr. W. Williams  said, that if the Bill were allowed to pass, he should support the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson). He (Mr. Williams) could see no reason why land should be excepted from the general rule in the transactions to which this measure referred. He considered, however, that the Bill ought not to pass for the period proposed. He considered five years far too long for its duration. He considered that its tendency would be to inflict a great evil upon the smaller class of shopkeepers and persons of the same rank in life. He did not say that the rate of interest should be restricted to five per cent., but he thought that some limits should be fixed. Wherever usury had prevailed, the most injurious consequences had ensued. In a great number of bankruptcies it would be found that the parties had failed in consequence
 648
 Mr. Francis T. Baring  collected, from what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that he was not unfavourable to the principle of the clause. He would suggest that if the Government, in a future Session, would consent to the appointment of a Committee to examine into the effect of the usury laws on the landed interest, and have an inquiry into their operation, it would be better to pass the Bill in its present shape without this clause. Such an inquiry, he had no doubt, would have the effect of convincing every man (he only wondered that a sensible man could have any difficulty as to the point) that they were, in point of fact, by being exempted under this Bill, suffering great inconve-
 650
 Sir G. Clerk  contended, that as to settlement no difference should be made between the natives of Scotland, England, and Ireland. He cordially supported the clause, and denied that there was any general feeling against the Bill in Scotland; on the contrary its principle was approved of, and the petitions against it principally referred to matters of detail.
 Sir G. Clerk  said, the subject was one of great importance, and the clause was totally without precedent. It was calculated to establish a monopoly which might be very inconvenient to the public. It would be recollected that the clause passed through the House without resistance; and, as it was not touched by any of the Lords' Amendments, he could not get rid of it without throwing the Bill out altogether. The Report of the Board of Trade had recommended the House to take care that no Railway Bill should give any such power of transfer. The only way to meet the case would be to bring in a Bill to declare, that notwithstanding the indefinite powers granted in several Railway Bills to lease or transfer their railways, it should not be lawful to do so unless the Bill under which the parties acted contained a clause specifying the parties authorized to make such transfer, and the companies to whom it was to be made. In future, the Committee should have the proposition before them, stating the lines that were intended to be amalgamated. If it met with the general approval of the House, he was prepared to bring in a Bill of that nature.
 Sir J. Graham,  in reply to the observations of the hon. Member for Lanark, said, that when the Bill was first introduced, it was intimated by the Government that it was impossible to make such a measure perfect in the first instance, and that Amendments would necessarily be introduced in Committee, founded on the information and the arguments advanced by those who were locally acquainted with the country. For the change introduced in this particular clause he was himself responsible, as, upon mature consideration, he did not think the clause, as originally brought in, was sufficient.
 Sir J. Graham  observed, that whatever might be the law of settlement in England, and whatever might be its defects, he admitted that Scotchmen and Irishmen were entitled to the full benefit of it on a perfect equality with Englishmen.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that when it had first been proposed to relax the usury laws, great opposition had been made by many parties connected with commerce. They had argued that the relaxation would subject them to the greatest inconvenience, and the greatest danger, inasmuch as it would enable persons to exact an interest of more than five per cent upon money. But experience had proved that the relaxation was of the greatest possible advantage to commerce, and that the prohibition to advance money upon good security for what that money was worth, really operated most injuriously on commerce. He did not believe that the present restriction respecting the advancement of money upon land, was for the benefit of the landed interest. But he was aware that great apprehension was entertained upon that subject; and he did not think it would be advisable, by any immediate and violent change, to create great and unnecessary alarm. He could, under these circumstances, see no objection to the appointment, during the next Session, of a Select Committee, which might by its labours throw new light upon the subject.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that he should be very unwilling to throw any opposition in the way of the introduction of the Bill.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the Bill had been committed to a Select Committee in the House of Lords; but as there was no probability, owing to the delay which had occurred, of that Bill coming down to the House of Commons at such a period as would admit of its proper consideration during the present Session, the Government did not propose to proceed with it But another Bill, growing out of the Re-
 622
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  stated that the object of the clause had been misunderstood. It was not intended to give the Commissioners the power of trying questions of properly; but it was intended to prevent parties from erecting weirs, after its being ascertained by law that they had no authority to do so.
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  would accede to the suggestion of his hon. Friend.
 Sir W. Somerville  was as anxious as any one to prevent the erection of illegal weirs; but it would be extremely hard that persons who had a right to erect weirs should have that right decided by the Commissioners, or have an expensive appeal to reverse his decision.
 Sir W. Somerville  hoped that the poor Scotch in Ireland would be treated as the
 645
 The Chairman  counted the Committee; and there being only twelve Members present, left the Chair; and Mr. Speaker having resumed it,
 The Chairman  reported to him that there were not forty Members present.
 Sir R. Ferguson  would again press on the right hon. Baronet what he had often urged before—namely, to try the Bill as an experiment in those counties which had not yet been valued.
 Sir R. Ferguson  was of opinion, that in reference to the valuation of tenements, it would be desirable to do away with the appeal, where the Sub-commissioners differ, to the Committee of Appeal, and to give it to the quarter sessions.
 The Solicitor General  said as this was a Bill of the utmost importance to the mercantile classes, it would be necessary to have it passed through the House with the least possible delay. He had had several communications with hon. Members on both sides of the House who were connected with the mercantile interest, and they had expressed their approval of the measure. He proposed, then, with the leave of the House, that the Bill should be read a second time, and that they should afterwards go  pro formâ
 The Earl of Arundel  wished to know whether it ever was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce any amendments into the Irish Charitable Bequests Bill?
 Admiral Dundas  begged to differ in the opinion expressed by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War, when he stated that it was customary for whole regiments to strip together on the occasions to which he had alluded. From his experience he could say, that it had never been customary to do so in the army, and as to the navy, he had never heard of such an instance occurring.
 Captain Berkeley  rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice. He proposed this Motion, he said, solely from a sense of justice, from a strong conviction of what was due on the part of the nation to a most gallant body of men, who, after the most noble exertions—after undergoing the most fearful sufferings,—had been denied their rightful share in the booty which their bravery had acquired. As a proof of it he would read the following extract of a letter from Captain Grey:—
 "The power of the sun during the whole period was very great, and the consequences of the unavoidable exposure of the men to it, and to the perhaps still more prejudicial night air, soon showed itself in the increasing sick lists of every ship. By the beginning of September, ours had reached 120, and before we returned to Chusan, we buried 18 men, including our purser, one lieutenant of marines, and carpenter, and some of the best petty officers of the ship. Our surgeon was invalided and died at the Cape, as well as a second carpenter. The number of men invalided I do not remember; but it was many months before the ship's company recovered their strength. In the number of men ill, many of the transport and troop ships far exceeded our proportion; and in two instances, I had out of my weak ship's company, to put officers and men on board them to take them down the river. The scene on board the  Belleisle, 678 l. s., Endymion. l. l. 679 "An Admiral may be amply rewarded by his feelings and the approbation of his superiors, but what reward have the inferior officers and men, but the value of the prizes? If an Admiral takes that from them on any consideration, he cannot expect to be well supported. However, I trust, as in all other instances, if to serve the State, any persons or bodies of men suffer losses, it is amply made up to them; and in this I rest confident my brave associates will not be disappointed." l., l., l.; 680 l. bonâ fide l. l. l. 681 "This House will, upon Wednesday, the 23rd day of this instant July, resolve itself into a Committee, for the purpose of considering the propriety of an Address to Her Majesty, humbly requesting that She will be graciously pleased to take into consideration the claims for further pecuniary recompense of the Officers, Seamen, Soldiers, and Marines engaged in the operations against the Chinese Empire, in the years 1840, 1841, and 1842."
 Captain Berkeley  observed, that he never stated that the officers and men were actuated by the feelings alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman, but that the system pursued was one which held out to them temptations to act upon such motives.
 Mr. Henry Berkeley  said, as there appeared a great disinclination on the part of hon. Gentlemen opposite to open their lips on this debate, and as his hon. and gallant relative, by the rules of the House, on a Supply night, had no right of reply, he should venture to offer a few remarks. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, spoke under great uneasiness, and mingled his refusal to do justice to our seamen, with much praise of their merits. By his account, so that you gave them hard knocks and glory, pay or prize money was a matter of indifference to them. Now he differed with the right hon. Gentleman, and believed that English seamen were well described in the words of an old writer—they were men who preferred "solid pudding unto empty praise." The right hon. Gentleman was ready with his praise, but not with his pudding. But did not the past bear him (Mr. Berkeley) out in thus thinking? Look to the last American war. Who assisted in taking our frigates? British seamen in the pay of the enemy. He appealed to the gallant Admiral opposite (Sir G. Cockburn) for the fact. Who assisted to lower the flag of the  Guerrière, Macedonian, Java? Chesapeake, Argus, Essex, Blonde 690
 Mr. Williams  thought the statement of the hon. and gallant Officer (Captain Berkeley) had been completely answered by the right hon. Gentleman; and if the Motion was pressed to a division, he thought those hon. Gentlemen in the House connected with the Navy would act most unadvisedly, and he must oppose them.
 Captain Plumridge  thought that the appeal made by his hon. and gallant Friend was to the justice, not to the liberality, of the House. The shares awarded to petty officers were no payment for the services they had performed, and the dangers they had undergone. He contended that the petty officers had a right to a larger share of the prize money that the common sailors and boys. It was all very well to talk about honour and glory to seamen, but prize money was the great, stimulus to which they always had and always would look.
 Sir R. Ferguson  was very glad to hear the speech of the right hon. Gentleman; for he considered the Government clearly responsible for every proceeding of that Board. He thought not a full but a sufficient price had been obtained for the lands under lease. His hon. Friend (Mr. Denison) contended they were worth twenty-three years' purchase; but his hon. Friend spoke of lands where a rent was reserved of one-fourth of the value, and this always fetched a higher price than that held in fee-simple. There were returns in the value of these lands, one by Mr. Finley, and the other by the Commissioners themselves, on the Table of the House. The first estimated them at 1,500,000 l., l. l. l. l. l. 708
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  said, he thought the discussion which had taken place on the question a very important one. They had very strong contradictions between two right hon. Secretaries—one, the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland, having stated that the Ecclesiastical Commissioners were independent of the Government — and the other, the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary having alleged
 709
 Captain Harris  had no doubt the soldiers and sailors who had been engaged in China would perform their duly in the same manner that they had done if they were called on to do so. But he certainly did not think the batta donation was a fair reward; 210,000 l. l.
 Mr. S. Herbert  said, that there appeared to be some misapprehension as to the statement he had made. The regiment in question had stood together in a row, and each man, as he was called by the surgeon, stood out from the row, and underwent the examination.
 Mr. S. Herbert  said, the best answer he could give to the question of the hon. Member for Finsbury was, to state the facts that had occurred as briefly as possible. It appeared that for some time past, in a battalion of Guards at Windsor, many of the soldiers were affected with a certain disease, which, if suffered to continue, must have been attended with serious results. He had reason to believe that these men, whether from a dislike to going into the hospital, or from some other cause, had endeavoured to conceal the fact of their suffering under this disease. In consequence of this being made known to the military authorities there, a rigid medical examina-
 675 676
 Mr. S. Herbert  said, that it was a well-known custom in the army for the men to be obliged to strip occasionally for the examination by the surgeon. Also, when a regiment was ordered down to bathe together, and for the medical inspection, which generally took place in the rooms of the men in the morning. The exception in this case, as to the mode in which the men were ordered to undergo this examination, was in consequence of this disease, which was prevalent among them.
 Mr. Hawes  must say the statement of the right hon. Gentleman was anything but satisfactory. Here was a sum of 450,000 l. l. l.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that he had repeatedly visited the prison, and he knew that the duties of the chaplain were most laborious. It was utterly impossible to carry out the
 713
 Mr. Hindley  considered such a charge to be monstrous. It was paying more than a pound a head for each prisoner.
 Mr. Hindley  would wish to know how many officers were in the prison, and what salaries were paid to them.
 Mr. Hindley  asked what were the respective salaries of the chaplain and the medical officer.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, he did not know what the hon. gentleman paid his labourers, but he could assure him that he (Colonel Sibthorp) and hon. Friends near him paid their labourers from 12 s. s.
 Mr. Evelyn Denison  rose to call the attention of the House to the management and disposal of that part of the property of the Irish Church vested in the hands of the Irish Ecclesiastical Commissioners. The hon. Gentleman commenced by stating that the Irish Ecclesiastical Commission had received upwards of 450,000 l., l. 704
 Mr. Cardwell  replied, that the chaplain received 400 l. l. l.
 Mr. Cardwell  said, the Solicitor for the Treasury had to discharge the business of no less than thirteen departments of the public service. The gentleman who at present filled that situation, was a most invaluable public officer; and by all who were acquainted with the manner in which he discharged his duties, the amount of salary which he received—2,850 l. l.
 Mr. George Hamilton  concurred, on the whole, with the suggestions of his hon. friends; there was, in Ireland a natural and not an unjust jealousy of Government Commissioners, especially where there was no appeal from them. He thought the best machinery would be an appeal from the valuator of tenements to the Sub-commissioners, as the Bill provided, that is, if the owner of a tenement should not be satisfied with the valuation of it; the Sub-commissioners should examine and correct the valuation. He would add to that, an appeal to the Barrister at quarter sessions. Generally, he supposed, the revision of the Sub-commissioners would be satisfactory, and not the less likely to be so, if there was an appeal from it.
 Mr. George Hamilton  said, that his hon. Friend the Member for Londonderry knew very well—no one better—how general was the complaint in Ireland with regard to the want of uniformity and accuracy of all existing valuations. Nothing could be more desirable than one uniform and accurate valuation on a proper principle, which would be understood. The principle of the valuation proposed in the Bill, was what he considered the only sound principle, namely, the letting value to a solvent tenant. Certainly it would have been better if the Bill had been introduced at an earlier period; but the effect of the postponement would be the delay of a year in commencing the valuation on sound principles.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that if he rose for the purpose of opposing, on public principle, the Motion of the hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite, he hoped the House would believe that he was not less impressed with a sense of the merit vigour, and ability of those engaged in that war, than the hon. Gentleman. He was perfectly sensible not only of the valour and skill displayed by our forces in China, but also of the humanity which they exhibited towards their foes, and the sufferings which they endured, not only from the military operations, but also from the effects of the climate. For all these the forces employed in China deserved the respect and admiration of their fellow countrymen; but when he expressed his admiration of those who were so engaged, he would add that the
 682 l. 683 l.; l. l. l.; l. l. l., 684 l. l. l.: 685
 Mr. Warburton  said, that during ten months in the year very good laboratory instruction in chemistry could be obtained in London. The laboratory in University College had recently been enlarged, and that institution could now receive thirty laboratory pupils. Hon. Gentlemen must not suppose that many of these laboratory pupils came from the agricultural districts; they came almost exclusively from the manufacturing districts.
 Mr. J. A. Smith  observed that there never had been a war in which a greater amount of property was exposed to British seamen; and never, perhaps, on a former occasion, had the force of discipline been manifested to a greater degree. With regard to these men, the course which the Government was now adopting was a most unwise course, as they did not hold out that reward for conduct of such a nature, which in true wisdom, and with a due regard to the interests of the country, they were bound to hold out. He was persuaded that, when, on similar occasions, vast amounts of property were exposed to plunder, the recollection of the decision of the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not be lost upon our seamen, as they would find
 689
 Mr. Henley  must say, the disclosures made startled him not a little. It appeared while parties in this country were quarrelling as to the application of the surplus revenue of the Church in Ireland, some gentlemen in that country took very good care that no surplus should exist. The matter was one with which that (the Ministerial) side of the House had nothing to do, for it originated with the Government of the hon. Gentlemen opposite. He did hope, that there would be some strong steps taken to put the question on an honest footing.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet whether he was prepared to lay on the Table of the House the Report of Mr. Robins, relative to the system pursued by a magistrate and certain constables in Staffordshire in respect to the punishment of Eliza Price; and also whether, in addition to such report, he would also produce a copy of the correspondence between the Government and the Lord Lieutenant of Staffordshire upon the subject? He had recently received a communication from the same neighbourhood, where it appeared that the same kind of treatment had been pursued against two women under the warrant of a Mr. Briscoe.
 672
 Mr. Wakley  suggested to the hon. and learned Gentleman the propriety of at once stating those amendments he intended to propose. The Bill, as it then stood, he thought was a satisfactory measure to the public generally, and was decidedly an improvement on that of last year. He should, therefore, like to know at once the character of the changes that were to be made in it.
 Mr. Wakley  would undertake to say, that by a more private examination, a more searching inquiry could be made into the case of each particular man, than by adopting such a course as had been stated. Nothing could be more indelicate or indecent, or more repulsive to a proper and correct feeling that should be encouraged among men, than for soldiers to be placed under the necessity of undergoing such an examination naked, in the presence of a large company of their comrades. He knew that it was highly dangerous to make this House a court of appeal on these occasions; but when he knew that in the House of Correction, in this metropolis, there were at present seventy soldiers confined, it was quite clear that there was something wrong in the government of the army.
 Mr. Wakley  said that, pursuant to his notice, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War a question having reference to a report that had lately appeared in the  Morning Chronicle,
 Mr. Wakley  said, that the system of administration in that gaol could not be tried without a large expenditure of pounds, shillings, and pence. He had often been in this prison, and he believed that nothing could be better than the system existing there. In the first instance, he had viewed the foundation of the establishment with feelings of horror, and as being merely an instrument of torture; but the results had been most astonishing, and most gratifying. He had examined the prisoners themselves closely, and he had watched the proceedings, and he firmly believed that not one in fifty of the unfortunate inmates of the prison, when liberated, would again violate the laws of the country.
 Mr. Wakley  expressed his desire that a national institution for affording instruction in chemistry should be established. He believed that during a recent visit of Professor Liebig to this country, the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) had had an interview with him, and that the professor had made some most startling statements with reference to this subject. Professor Liebig had told him that it was frightful to see the waste of capital in connexion with manufactures in this country, in consequence of our ignorance of chemistry. He hoped the right hon. Baronet would turn his attention to the matter, with a
 716
 Mr. Wakley  trusted that some means of improving the minds and morals of prisoners would be adopted in the gaols of this country. He hoped that the right hon. baronet would propose some measure with reference to prison discipline generally, founded on the system pursued at Pentonville.
 Mr. Wakley  complained that a salary of only 100 l.
 Mr. Ewart  said, with reference to the observations of the hon. Member for Finsbury, that he considered it most desirable for the interests of the country that the utmost encouragement should be given to the cultivation of the science of chemistry.
 Mr. Ewart  took occasion to object to the whole system of transportation at present adopted. He stated that the free settlers in Van Diemen's Land were extremely indignant at the letting loose amongst them of the most depraved characters. He understood that morality was no longer safe in that Colony, and that the free settlers were about petitioning Parliament against what the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies termed "the probationary system." He was of opinion that much more good might be effected than at present by substituting the Pentonville system for that of transportation, whilst he believed that the expense would not be so great.
 Mr. Ewart  expressed his approbation of the system adopted in the Pentonville establishment; but regretted that it was not carried further, and applied to Van Diemen's Land, the system of which was quite at variance with this, and ought to be abolished.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  objected strongly to this clause.
 Mr. S. Crawford  also urged on the right hon. Baronet the propriety of adopting the suggestions of the hon. Baronet (Sir R. Ferguson), of letting the measure stand as an experiment on those counties which had not been valued.
 Mr. W. Williams  thought, that every means should be taken to put a stop to a
 677
 Mr. W. Williams  observed, that the right hon. Gentleman had not answered the most important charge that had been made, namely, whether those men had been ordered to stip themselves naked, in the presence of the whole regiment?
 Mr. Williams  had heard the statement of the right hon. Baronet with great pleasure. He rejoiced at the success of the experiment, and the improvement it had effected in the habits of the prisoners; but he confessed, he doubted the policy of making those men tailors or shoemakers. What the Colony to which they were sent wanted was persons having some knowledge of agriculture or agricultural labour. Their services would prove much more valuable and important. With regard to the question he first started, he must observe that the right hon. Baronet had not at all accounted for the inability of the prisoners while in this establishment to earn more than three-halfpence a day.
 Mr. W. Williams  said there were 475 prisoners in this prison, and the salaries of the officers placed over that number of prisoners amounted to no less than 7,558 l., l. l. s. l. s. l.; l., l. d. 711 l.
 Mr. W. Williams  said, that he observed that in this Estimate, there was a charge of £200 a year each for three inspectors of the prison. This appeared to be a new species of appointment; he, therefore, wished to know what was the object of it?
 Mr. W. Williams  wished to know from
 710 l. s. l.,
 Sir C. Napier  wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer how long were vessels taken to be considered as droits of the Admiralty?—and he also wished the right hon. Gentleman to tell the House exactly, if he could, what money, after the expenses of the war, that was to say, after the expenses of the additional ships required by the transactions in China were paid, went clear into the Treasury? [The  Chancellor of the Exchequer: 686 l. l. 687 l. l.; l. Cries of 688 l.,
 Mr. Grogan  said, he was glad that an investigation was likely to take place on the question; as he believed the Board had not given entire satisfaction either to the clergy or the public. He would mention one instance, which had come under his own notice. It was the case of a parish church in Dublin, which had been taken down as being unsafe. The parishioners had, it was true, consented to the removal of the church; but it was on the supposition that it would be rebuilt. Repeated applications had been made to the Commissioners to rebuild it, but without success, as they persisted in declaring they had no funds for the purpose.
 Sir G. Cockburn  was understood to say that no report of such a circumstance as had been stated by the hon. and gallant Officer had, he believed, been received at the Admiralty.
 Captain Pechell  said, that a paragraph had recently appeared in the public newspapers relative to the French squadron at Tahiti, in which it was stated that a letter had been lately received from that place, giving an account of the arrival of the  Talbot Salamander Talbot 674 Talbot Talbot, Salamander Talbot
 Captain Pechell  said, that in addition to the ordnance referred to by his hon. and gallant Friend, the Government had not accounted for the brass ordnance taken at China, and the ransom received in respect to Canton and other places in China. It was said by the Government, this Motion was an interference with the Royal prerogative. That was the way they were always met when the claims of the navy were advanced; but he contended that the question was not one for the Royal prerogative at all, but for the House of Commons. As to the batta, it was never understood that the seamen were to be paid in that manner—they expected to have their fair proportion of prize money, and very great dissatisfaction existed as to the way in which they had been treated. The Government were in possession of sufficient funds which had accrued from the services of the army and the navy, to do justice to both services. Then, again, was the large field which those services had opened to British commerce to be considered as nothing? He called upon the House to support the Motion of his hon. and gallant Friend.
 Sir James Duke  deplored the tone in which the discussion had been carried on on one side of the House, and deprecated the mercenary spirit so frequently during the debate attributed, but he believed upon no good grounds, to the seamen of the British Navy.
 Sir James Graham  acknowledged this was a very grave subject, and by no means improperly brought under the consideration of the House. It was a question which attracted his anxious attention, and nearly a year ago he thought it necessary
 706 Hawes: l. l. l. 707
 Sir J. Graham  observed, that this charge certainly appeared for the first time in the Estimates, but it was necessary, in consequence of new arrangements with respect to this prison. Complaints were formerly repeatedly made by several hon. Gentlemen as to the system of prison discipline carried on in this prison. He had considered it expedient to alter the whole system in this prison. By this new arrangement, every male and female convict, sentenced to transportation, was, as soon as possible, conveyed to Millbank, and there they remained for three months under the close inspection of these three officers. The persons appointed to these offices, were the three inspectors of prisons. One or other of these inspected the convicts in Millbank prison constantly, indeed almost daily. At the end of three months the inspectors, in their report to him, recommended the course which should be adopted as to the future destination of each convict. They selected a certain number for the Pentonville prison, where they would be taught a useful trade,
 714
 Sir J. Graham  could not deny that there were many serious moral objections to transporting felons into a Colony; but, taking the balance of good and evil, he thought it was far better that they should be transported, than be retained in the mother country. On the average, the number of prisoners convicted of felony in Great Britain, amounted annually to some 5,000. Pentonville would not contain above 600; besides, he could not think of recommending that the Pentonville system should be applied to the whole of
 715
 Sir J. Graham  said, that the hon. Member for Coventry was rather a hard taskmaster. Last year he complained in like manner of the annual expense of this establishment, when the grant amounted to 20,364 l. l. l., l., l.; 712
 Sir J. Graham  said, it must be remembered the system of Pentonville prison was the system of complete separation, so that labour could not be carried on so as to meet the hon. Member's views.
 Sir J. Graham  thought that the course which his hon. and learned Friend proposed to take was decidedly the most convenient one, and to which no reasonable objection could be well urged.
 Sir J. Graham  said, he should not have the least objection to produce the minutes of evidence which had been taken before the Commissioner in respect to the cases referred to, and the report of the Commissioner himself upon such evidence. He would be also happy to lay upon the Table of the House a copy of the letter which he had addressed to the Lord Lieutenant of Staffordshire on the subject, enclosing the Report of the Commissioner and the minutes of evidence. The hon. Member for Finsbury would then see that he had pointed the attention of the Lord Lieutenant to this practice of chaining prisoners
 673
 Sir J. Graham  said, the subject to which the noble Earl referred was under the consideration of Government. The Roman Catholic Commissioners appointed to preside at the Board under this Bill had represented to the Government the objections which they had to more than one point in that measure. They pointed out, especially, the duty that was imposed on them by the Act, of deciding as to who possessed ecclesiastical authority, according to the rules and canons of their Church. They stated that this point should be left altogether to the decision of an ecclesiastical authority, and not of a civil authority. This objection he had a desire, as far as possible, to remove. Another point was also dwelt upon as most objectionable, in respect to which they stated that the Bill had put them in a worse situation than they had been in before. He could only say it was not the intention of Government to place them in a more disadvantageous position than they had been heretofore. With respect to these objections generally, it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government, during the recess, to give every attention to them, with a view of ascertaining how these difficulties could be removed.
 Sir R. Peel  trusted the House would be sensible of the great importance of the question at issue; and that, notwithstanding the appeal which had been made to them, they would not consider it their duty to interfere with the exercise of the prerogative of the Crown; and that, unless a case were satisfactorily and fully made out, they would not, by agreeing to the present Motion, hold out to the army and the navy that they were to look in future to the House of Commons, instead of the Crown, as the dispensers of favour and rewards for military services. There could be nothing more dangerous, or more replete with evil in its consequences, than for the House to interfere as a court of appeal from the Crown, as to those acts of favour and indulgence which it might think fit to show to the army and navy for great military services performed. Then, again, let the House recollect what was due from public men in regard to the public interest. It seemed to be thought the Government had no duty to perform to the country in the matter; that they had nothing to do in guarding the public
 691 692 693 l. C. Napier: l. l., 694 l., l. l. l. 695
 Sir R. Peel  said, he had had an interview with Professor Liebig on this subject, but he was not quite convinced of the policy of direct Government interference in such a matter. He was by no means satisfied that an institution for the express purpose of teaching chemistry would be so successful and efficient in this country as similar institutions had been abroad; but he thought, considering the splendid educational establishments which existed in this country and in Scotland, that it was the duty of those by whom such institutions were conducted, to make proper provision for the cultivation of that important science.
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  begged to explain. It was a mistake to suppose that he was at all indifferent on the subject. He had already taken occasion to express his satisfaction that the question had been brought under the notice of the House, and he was fully sensible of the great importance which was to be attached to it.
 Sir T. Fremantle  was not prepared to dispute in the main the statement made by the hon. Gentleman; but he must state at the outset that the attention of the Government had, for some time, been directed to this subject, and that, at the suggestion of his right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Home Department, an official communication had been made by the Lord Lieutenant to the Ecclesiastical Board, calling their attention to the circumstance of the money realized under the Commission not being devoted to the annual expenditure. It must be borne in mind that these Commissioners were an independent corporation, over which the Government had no direct control; and they must judge for themselves as to the manner of exercising those powers entrusted to them by Act of Parliament. The two points to which the hon. Gentleman had called attention were the terms on which the leases had been converted into perpetuities, and the mode in which the money realized had been expended. Now, a large number of the tenants holding Church leases had not converted them into perpetuities. Only one-third, and no more, had availed themselves of the terms offered. He believed that in the suppressed sees the fines were fixed on the renewal of the leases. That power did not exist as to the sees not suppressed. As to the manner in which the money had been expended, he was not prepared to say that if greater economy was used, a considerable sum might not have been saved. But, at the same time, he must point out the heavy charges which the Commission had to meet. There was, in the first place, the repair and rebuilding of all the churches in Ireland; and no doubt when the trust was first undertaken the churches were in a dilapidated state. A heavy expenditure was therefore incurred in repairing old churches and building new ones; and the Commissioners had often to determine, when local contributions in favour of such an object were large, whether it would not be better to advance a somewhat larger sum for the erection of new churches, than to expend a smaller amount in inadequate repairs of old churches. Under this head the sums expended were 69,000 l. l. l. 705 l. l., l, l.,
 Sir T. Fremantle  urged on the noble Lord the necessity of allowing the Bill to proceed.
 Sir T. Fremantle  said, he could not take upon himself to follow the advice of the hon. Baronet, without more consideration; and, therefore, if the noble Lord would allow the remaining clauses to go through Committee, he would—if no objection existed in other quarters—comply with the suggestion; but if he could not consent to the suggestion, he would promise the noble Lord and the hon. Baronet, an ample opportunity of discussing the point at another stage, and have the
 670
 Viscount Bernard  fully concurred in what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department. Without entering into the question whether the different contractors might not have done their work cheaper, he would beg leave to say that there was full employment in Ireland, in the repairs of churches, for the 400,000 l. l. l.
 Viscount Clements  concurred in the objection. The people of Ireland should be taught to look to their natural guides, the magistracy and gentry, and not to Government officers.
 Viscount Clements  had no wish to let others do for him what he could do for himself; and he therefore objected to this Bill, on the ground that it committed to the Executive Government in Ireland, what could be more satisfactorily done by the grand juries of counties, as far as related to valuation, and applotting the grand jury cess. Under these circumstances, he would persevere in his opposition to the Bill.
 Viscount Clements  objected to the whole Bill. It was preposterous to introduce a measure of this importance at so late a period of the Session, and to try to carry it on in a House consisting of four Irish Members, and eleven Members from other parts of the three kingdoms. He would not be a party to such a course; and he would now move that the House be counted.
 Viscount Clements  said, he would divide the Committee. Clements finding
 Viscount Clements  said, he would move "that the further progress of the Bill be postponed for six months."
 Viscount Palmerston  was disposed to concur in principle generally with what had been stated by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury, that the House of Commons should be careful and sparing in its interference with that part of the prerogative of the Crown which had reference to the rewards to be given for military and naval services. He argued that the army and navy ought to be taught to look to the Crown for rewards; and, as a general rule, it was most inexpedient for that House to interpose. At the same time the Motion of his hon. and gallant Friend was not altogether without example. In the case of the battle of Navarino, the House did interpose repeatedly, and at length the advice of the House prevailed with the Crown; and that payment was made which the Government had, for a long time, thought it their duty to withhold. And he thought the present was a case in which his hon. and gallant Friend was justified in urging the House to express an opinion that the Government ought to reconsider the decision it had come to. The right hon. Baronet stated correctly, that official men were naturally inclined to take the most liberal view of claims of this nature. Their personal feelings in the first place would lead them to look favourably upon them; but considerations of revenue, and considerations connected with the supplies, when the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the First Lord of the Treasury came to look at the expenses of the country on the one hand, and its income on the other, counterbalancing feelings of duty arose in their
 696 697 l.; l.; l. 698 699 l. 700 "That, although Her Majesty was of opinion that the award of a distinction of this nature should be reserved for very peculiar and special occasions—as, no doubt, it ought to bs—and that great evil would arise from the frequent and indiscriminate granting of medals, in order to commemorate military and naval exploits, yet that it appeared to Her Majesty that, in the instance of the recent events in China, an exception could properly and usefully be made from the rule to be generally observed. The difficulties with which our forces had to contend on the recent expedition—difficulties arising from the absence of that local information which would have been accessible in respect to almost, every other country—had been of the most formidable character; but they had been as gallantly met and triumphantly surmounted. Wherever opportunities had offered—and they were not wanting—for displays of skill and courage, our naval and military forces had nobly kept up the character of their respective services; and Her Majesty was happy in the belief that the great moral effect which had been produced upon the Chinese people, and to which Her Majesty principally looked for permanent advantages, had resulted not more from the irresistible power displayed, than from the moderation shown in victory, and the studious abstinence from unnecessary aggravation of the horrors of war; the discipline which prevailed during the excitement of success, and the good faith with which, on the first intimation of acquiescence in our demands, the invading forces had been withdrawn. Under these circumstances, Her Majesty was of opinion that the Chinese war, and its important results, should be commemorated by the issue of a medal, to be granted to those whose skill and valour had brought about its termination." 701
 Mr. Dundas  seconded the Motion.
 The Attorney General  said, it was not without a feeling of regret that, after the former discussion of three nights on this subect, he found that the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard had thought proper to renew it; and, above all, that it should be by a Motion of such a vague and indefinite character, from the adoption of which it was impossible to anticipate any beneficial result. On considering this question, he could not disguise from himself, that but for the existence of the New Zealand Company, and but for the interests of that Company, it never would have been brought forward. He trusted that he should be able to satisfy the House that it was not from any regard to the general prosperity of the Colony of New Zealand, that the hon. Member had called upon it to reconsider the subject; but entirely with a view to the interests of the New Zealand Company. He felt obliged to his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Bath, for having at once pointed out the policy which it was the object of the Motion to have adopted. It was, to compel the Government to abandon the Treaty of Waitangi, and to take possession of the whole of the unoccupied land in the Colony; and then, out of it, to make over a very large portion to the New Zealand Company. He agreed
 852 853 854 "On mature reflection, your directors know no other remedy for the evils they have set forth, than for the Government to take on itself the duty of occupying all the lands as sole possessors, making compensation to such persons as have  bonâ fide "Forego and disclaim all title, or pretence of title, to any land in New Zealand, except such as may be granted to them by the Crown, preserving to the tribes and chiefs all the lands which they might individually or collectively possess." 855 primâ facie
 Captain Boldero : Sir, I feel confident that the House will indulge me by its attention for a few moments. I feel that there could scarcely be any position more painful to myself than that which I now occupy, in rising to address you upon the subject which has just been brought under your consideration. The House is aware that the South Eastern Railway Company had presented a petition to this House, accompanied by a letter, in which certain charges were made against my friend Mr. Bonham and myself. That petition was referred to the consideration of a Select Committee; and that Committee, after the most diligent and scrutinizing inquiry, came to this conclusion. In the Report laid upon the Table by the Committee, I find it stated—
 "Though, however, Mr. Hignett admitted that he had written the letter referred to, he declared to your Committee, that when he wrote it, he had no authority to use the name of either Mr. Bonham or Captain Boldero; that he 'had no conversation whatever with those gentlemen upon the subject;' and that he used their names, considering that it would 'give weight to' his application for the shares he was soliciting from the Company. Mr. Hignett further declared, that the statement that he had spoken to Mr. Bonham was 'untrue;' and that the presumption intended to be raised by this use of the names of influential members of the Board, that the demands of the Company on the Board might be assisted by the course suggested by the letter, was without foundation, as 'they had not the power to further the objects of the South Eastern Company'—the questions at issue being deemed of a purely military nature, and the decision upon such questions resting solely with the Master General, and not with the Board." "That they feel it to be their duty, in the first instance, to state, that nothing which has transpired leads them to suppose that the decisions of the Master General upon any of the questions brought before him by the parties promoting either the South Eastern, North Kent, or the London, Chatham, and Kent lines of railway, were influenced by any other
 799 Times 800 801
 Mr. Craven Berkeley  concurred in what had fallen from the hon. Member for Lambeth, who, he hoped, would persevere in his opposition to the Bill. He considered that the licensed victuallers were hardly dealt with by the Bill. He would give his support to the right hon. Gentleman, if he would strike out all the clauses in the Bill except those that related to  qui tam
 Captain Rous  said, that it was evident that the licensed victuallers would not be placed in a worse position by the present Bill than they were under the existing law, which gave the police the power of entering their houses at all times. He thought the principle of the Bill was a good one, and he hoped the first conviction under it would be the Crockford Club house.
 Lord John Russell : I heard with considerable surprise what has been stated by my hon. Friend, and I am hardly less surprised at the conduct of the Government with respect to Mr. Wray. I confess I am surprised at what I have now heard, that in 1836 the constitution of this House was so deficient that it was necessary to pay a Gentleman who was appointed on a Committee the sum of 300 l. 804 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Hastie  said, that as considerable alterations had been made in the Bill, upon which the people of Scotland had no time to express an opinion, he felt it to be his duty to move that the Bill, as amended, be printed, and read a third time that day week. He thought that the Bill, under the circumstances, was pressed with unjustifiable haste. He did not deny that the people of Scotland were in favour of an alteration of the Poor Law; but at the same time, they were anxious to have another year to consider the Bill more fully.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that the Bill did not confine itself to the recommendation of the Committee; for it interfered with licensed victuallers in a manner that was not contemplated. There was an attempt in the Bill to define an unlawful game; but that definition was so extensive as to include any innocent game: added to this, they were going to do that by the Bill that would operate as a further heavy tax upon the licensed victuallers, if they had a billiard table—the licensed victuallers were a body, he thought, who were sufficiently taxed already. The Bill, in fact, went beyond the description of it given by the right hon. Baronet, and beyond what was contemplated by the Gaming Committee. Unless the right hon. Baronet would insert a clause exempting the licensed victuallers from the operation of the Bill, he should vote against its second reading.
 Mr. Hawes  asked the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether he considered with respect to Mr. Wray that the object of the Report of the Committee had been accomplished?
 Mr. Hawes  asked whether the right hon. Baronet would have any objection to produce the letter?
 Mr. Hawes  wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury, upon a subject of great public importance; of his intention to do which, he had already given the right hon. Gentleman notice. The question had reference to the Report of the Committee which had sat upon a subject connected with the South Eastern Railway Company. He had delayed putting this question, in order that the Government might be the better enabled to act upon their own discretion and responsibility in a matter of this kind. His question was, whether Her Majesty's Ministers had had under their consideration the Report of that Committee, and whether they had taken any steps in consequence, in reference to the names of certain parties mentioned in that Report—namely, Captain Boldero, Mr. Bonham, Mr. Hignett, and Mr. Wray; and if so, whether they were prepared to state what those steps were which they had taken?
 Mr. Bickham Escott  said, that he was a Member of the Committee which sat upon the subject of  qui tam qui tam 796
 Mr. Escott  said, that the Bill, as it now stood, altered the present law of Scotland with respect to the rating of funded property for the relief of the poor. Under the existing law such property was rateable for the relief of the poor; but the present Bill gave the parish authorities the power of assessing or not assessing such property as they pleased. He certainly thought this alteration was objectionable.
 Mr. C. Buller  rose, and said: Sir, I entirely concur in the feeling which is expressed in the petition that has just been presented to you from the New Zealand Company; for I felt that it would not be necessary for any one on behalf of the New Zealand Company to bring the question again before the House during this Session; and if I do so on the present occasion, I hope the House will do me the justice to believe that I do it solely from a feeling of a strong necessity for such a course. I may state at once that it is not my desire to trespass on the attention of the House to the same extent as on a former occasion, for the subject-matter of discussion is not such as could justify me in thus trespassing on the House. The facts to which I am about to direct attention are few, but they are of great importance; and as it is not necessary to resume my former statement, I will take up the story where I ended on the former occasion, namely, the 20th of June last, and proceed to put the House in possession of the intelligence which has arrived in this country from New Zealand since that debate, and call attention to what has since been going on in this country relative to the affairs of that Colony. The newspapers and the Papers which have been laid before the House have put Members in possession of the startling intelligence which has arrived from New Zealand since the affairs of that Colony were last discussed; and I am sure that every Gentleman on both sides of the House, who has read those accounts, must feel the deepest commiseration for the past, and the gravest apprehension for the future. Those events were inevitable in their occurrence. They were predicted by all those conversant with the condition and the affairs of New Zealand for the last three years. They are events which were predicted by my noble Friend, whose loss, a deplorable event, [the death of Earl Grey, who expired on July 17th,] which we all regret, has caused—I mean Lord Howick. That noble Lord showed to this House that the
 808 809 810 811 l. l. Hazard, 812 813 814 G. W. Hope: G. W. Hope 815 816 817 "With regard to the alleged responsibility of the officers of Government in New Zealand to the Colonial Office in London, your petitioners would observe that, in the history of this Colony, nothing is more remarkable than the disregard by the local authorities of the instructions which they received from the Secretary of State. The cases of specific disobedience are numerous and important; but that which has led the colonists to despair of the efficacy of instructions from Downing-street, is abundant evidence of an habitual feeling
 818 819 "With respect to the future government of the Colony, I am, for one, strongly inclined to think that a representative government is suited for the condition of the people of that Colony. There is not the objection to it whichimght apply to a penal Colony. You
 820 "At the same time it is impossible to apply the principle of a representative government to an island where the different settlements in the island are at such great distances from each other. The noble Lord says that he thinks Auckland was ill selected as the seat of Government. It might be so in some local respects: but I apprehend that, so far as military and naval considerations are concerned, Auckland possesses great recommendations. But this is one of those questions which must be influenced by local rather than general considerations. It is a point which cannot be determined upon by any other consideration than what may be most advantageous to the people. It is quite clear that, seeing how the settlers are spread over the Northern Island, it would be no easy matter to apply the principle of a representative government, according to the rule observed in more thickly populated countries. I believe that by far the best plan would be the formation of a municipal government with an extensive power of local taxation for local purposes—that this form, at all events, should be established in the first instance. I think you will find that, in the opinion of Mr. Burke, the formation of the Government in North America arose from these municipal institutions. In his speech to the sheriffs of Bristol, he says, these representative governments in North America grew up he knew not how. There they were. The people left this country with those feelings of pride and attachment to liberty which were the boast of the mother country. They began with municipal institutions; and distance, and absence, and the control of local circumstances increased them, and from small beginnings, into representative communities. This was the natural growth of these institutions. Those nations which have Colonies must expect this to be the ultimate result." "Now I am strongly inclined to think that the germ of a representative government in a
 821 822 "For these, among other reasons, I think the admission of the representative system is for the present impracticable." "For these, among other reasons, I think the admission of the representative system is for the present impracticable; and I would, therefore, have you direct your attention and that of the colonists to the formation of local municipal bodies, with considerable powers of taxation for local purposes, and of making the necessary by-laws." 823 "You cannot," said the right hon. Baronet' "have one parliament as we have in this country, but you should have several municipal institutions, which should answer the purpose of a parliament, and by which each locality should be governed." 824 825 826 827 "Reference having been made in these discussions to the additional payments required from the Company, either by the awards of the Commissioner of the Court of Claims, or by directions of the Governor, the deputation incidentally remarked, that as a matter of course, the Company would, in consideration of all such payments, be entitled to land at the rate mentioned in the agreement of November, 1840—namely, four acres for every pound sterling; and that a similar claim would arise in respect to all payments for purchases of land required to be made for the fulfilment of that agreement. Lord Stanley expressed some surprise at this claim, and intimated that he was not then prepared to admit its validity." 828 829 "We have strictly in every instruction we have issued—and the Papers upon the Table prove the fact—that we have insisted on the strict fulfilment of the spirit and the letter of the Treaty of Waitangi. Our instructions have upon that point been uniform. They were given to Captain Fitzroy; and whatever instructions may have been since despatched to his successor, they have, in this respect, remained unaltered. We have told him—our declarations to the effect have been reiterated—that while he should seek, in every possible mode, to promote the amicable settlement of the affairs of the New Zealand Company, that he should always consider it to be the paramount duty devolved upon him, specially, and scrupulously, and religiously to fulfil our solemn engagements with the natives of New Zealand." 830 "That this House regards with regret and apprehension the state of affairs in New Zealand; and that those feelings are greatly aggravated by the want of any sufficient evidence of a change in the policy which has led to such disastrous results."
 Colonel Sibthorp  had already expressed his opinion of the advantage which would arise from calling on every Member to state whether he possessed railway shares or whether he did not. For his part, although he had not been asked to serve on any Railway Committee, yet he was ready to go to the bar of the House and swear that he had no interest, directly or indirectly, in railways. Let all Members be examined—let them all make such a statement, and then they might have what they might call something like a pure House of Commons. It was his opinion, however, that as at present constituted, instead of being a reformed and purified House, it was more muddy and dirty than ever.
 Colonel Sibthorp  entirely agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford, whom he regarded as a true Christian and Protestant. He would always be happy to record his vote with his hon. Friend against any measure introduced by the right hon. Baronet; and there was no measure which he did not believe the right hon. Baronet, as a Minister, capable of introducing for the spoliation and ruin of the Protestant Church.
 The Lord Advocate  hoped, after the thorough discussion which the principle and almost every clause in the Bill underwent, that his hon. Friend would not press his
 792
 Mr. French  considered that the House was perfectly correct in watching with a jealous eye the conduct of those to whom it delegated its authority. He would state this generally, as it appeared to him that it should not be limited in its application to parties only who had been mixed up in pecuniary transactions; there were other still graver delinquencies than any that had been alluded to that evening. Could
 806
 Mr. G. W. Hope  asked what was the statement made by the hon. and learned
 831 in extenso; "I can only repeat to you (Captain Grey) the instructions which I have already given to Captain Fitzroy, to endeavour by amicable co-operation with Colonel Wakefield, to remove obstacles arising from unsatisfied native claims, and to discourage, as far as lies in
 832 C. Buller: bonâ fide "In my despatch of the 13th instant, I ad-
 833 834 "As soon as practicable, to establish some general rule for defining native titles, and settling the claims to land, and to do their best to aid the agents of the Company in effecting the necessary arrangements with the natives, either for the purchase of lands belonging to them, but unimproved, or for making, on the part of the Company, equitable compensation for the original value of land which may have been occupied by themselves or their settlers, without sufficient title, but on which they may have effected improvements." 835 North Star 836 "On Sunday last there arrived here 230 of the 58th regiment, with six field pieces from Sydney, in Her Majesty's ship  North Star, Velocity. 837 838 839 ex-parte 840 Buller: 841 842 843 "The present application was not founded on a single act of violence, and he felt convinced that the difficulty of keeping in cheek the natives would be more extensively felt in proportion as the Report of the House of Commons' Committee of July should become more generally known throughout the Colony."
 Mr. G. W. Hope  begged to be allowed to offer a very short explanation as to what had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman. As the House would perceive, if they looked at the Papers, there were extracts, and there was also a complete despatch. The complete despatch was placed in the hands of the deputation, and was taken away by the deputation. That was the document which Mr. Young had had
 869
 Mr. Aglionby  would ask, for the information of the House, who Mr. White really was? He would likewise ask, in reference to Mr. Dandeson Coates, if the circular quoted had been sent forth without his knowledge or direction? The circular was written on the part of the Church Missionary Society. Did the hon. Baronet mean to disavow Mr. White's proceeding—did he mean to deny that Mr. Coates, either directly or indirectly, sent the letter? Did he mean to deny that the Church Missionary Society did not cause it to be sent? If so, let him at once inform the House of it. It was sent with the cognizance, or by the authority of Mr. Coates, or of the Church Missionary Society. In accordance with the Church Missionary Society, its missionaries in the Colony had a direct interest in obstructing colonization by any one but themselves. The missionaries might be divided into three classes:—First, there were those who went out from the most highminded, the purest, and the most benevolent of motives, and who thought that the introduction of any European society into the Colony would introduce with it European arts and luxuries, and with them European vices, and thus obstruct the christianizing and civilizing the natives of New Zealand; such men he could respect. There was another class, not quite so high-minded, but who had not the base pecuniary interest which others had. They formed a considerable body of the missionaries, and were honest and intelligent mechanics, who went out to preach the doctrines of the Church Missionary Society. They reigned as little kings in their dif-
 866 867 "I have just heard, with equal surprise and pain, the unqualified denial given by Mr. Hope, on the part of Lord Stanley, of the assertion made by the Directors of the New Zealand Company, that the fact of his Lordship having given instructions to Captain Grey to grant  primâ facie 868
 Mr. Aglionby  deeply regretted to be called on to address the House on that occasion; but it was a subject of such importance that he could not avoid addressing some observations to the House, and in the course of his remarks he hoped he should not be induced, by any feeling he might entertain as to the treatment of the colonists, to use any expression of harshness, or calculated to excite irritation. He would not follow the hon. and learned Attorney General through all the documents to which he referred in his speech, as he thought that a Committee would be the most proper tribunal before which to lay those documents. He could not allow the misconceptions, and consequently the misrepresentations of the hon. and learned Attorney General to pass unnoticed, for that hon. Gentleman had misunderstood the proceedings and conduct of the New Zealand Company. The hon. and learned Gentleman was mistaken in the assertion that the Company went out without any land whatever. They had purchased land from private individuals, and from the native chiefs, who were qualified to sell it. There was no illegality in that. What right, therefore, had the hon. and learned
 863 l. l. 864 animus 865 R. Inglis: R. Inglis:
 Mr. Labouchere  had intended to give a silent vote on this occasion; but after what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Bath with reference to the conduct of Lord Normanby, under whom he had the honour to act in the Colonial Office, he should consider himself as shrinking from his duty to the House, to the noble Lord, and to himself, if he were not to make some observations on what the hon. and learned Member had advanced. But first he wished to say a few words as to what had been put forward by the hon. and learned Gentleman who last addressed the House; that hon. and learned Gentleman expressed the opinion that the question before the House was merely a question between the New Zealand Company and the Colonial Office: the hon. and learned Gentleman was quite mistaken. There was a much more important question than that submitted to their decision on this occasion; a question whether the Colony of New Zealand was not in that condition in which it had become the im-
 856 857 858 859 860
 Mr. Warburton  thought that the Bill dealt most unfairly with respect to informers. They were first made necessary to carry into effect the Acts of the Legislature, and then, when they gave information, they were prevented from proceeding with the action.
 Mr. Roebuck  observed, that he learned from the right hon. Baronet that, on the appointment of Mr. Wray, it was understood he might employ himself as a barrister, or, in other words, that he was not to withdraw from Westminster Hall. He wanted to know whether that was considered by the right hon. Gentleman as any palliation of the proceedings of a gentleman who did not confine himself to Westminster Hall, in the proper discharge of his duty as a barrister, but employed himself in the business of canvassing for votes for the private purposes of the South Eastern Railway?
 Mr. Roebuck  said, many of the difficulties which beset this question were to be traced to the manner in which we became entitled to New Zealand. They would be found not to result from the acts of any one Government, but from the course of policy which had been pursued with regard to the Colony. He should shortly give the history of this Colony; for on the good foundation of our title rested the solution of many of the difficulties which we had to encounter. In 1769, Captain Cook, under the authority of the Crown, discovered this territory. According to international law, to give us any right to possession of the discovery, the voyage of discovery must have been prosecuted under the authority of a Crown. This, however, was but an inchoate right, liable to be annulled by non-user or formal abandonment. We did not take possession of New Zealand by any authorized colonization. Some runaways from New South Wales, some mariners connected with the whale fishery, and some missionaries (of whom he had a word to say presently), who thought they were "labouring in the vineyard," occupied by degrees this territory. The right we gained by discovery thus remained unperfected. By a great many Acts of Parliament, Great
 844 845 846 847 848 849 Rous: 850 l. 851
 Mr. Henley  said, he had no objection to support a Bill to put down gaming, but he had a most decided objection to the 8th Clause, which put upon the owner of any house in which a person might be found with a pack of cards in his pocket the necessity of proving that it was not a gaming house.
 Mr. Spooner  hoped the hon. Member for Lambeth would not persevere in his opposition to the second reading of a Bill, the object of which they must all concur in approving. There were some of the clauses to which he had a strong objection; but he thought the Bill might be so amended in Committee as to get rid of the objections to which it was at present liable.
 Mr. M. Gibson , looking at the Bill as a penal act against the Brazilians, thought it of importance that all the correspondence relating to it should be laid on the Table of the House, and with this view moved its committal on a future day, in order to give the Government an opportunity of producing the correspondence.
 Mr. Milner Gibson  said, he should not be performing his duty if he allowed the Bill to proceed, and moved that the Committee be postponed till Friday.
 Mr. Wakley  said, he had supported the Bill originally in the hope that alterations might be made in it with the view to its improvement; but, unfortunately, the many alterations in it were anything but improvements, and as it now stood, it never would work well for the poor of Scotland. He most particularly objected to that part of it by which the able-bodied poor in Scotland were denied relief when out of work. A Scotchman being in distress in England was sent off to Scotland, where he was met by this Bill, which refused him all aid. Why, this was enough to set the Scotch poor mad, particularly when they saw that a different law prevailed in England and Ireland.
 Mr. Wakley  hoped, as a friend to the licensed victuallers, that the hon. Member for Lambeth would not divide the House, as such a course would be likely to prejudice their case. He never knew any matter of police regulation to come before the House, that the licensed victuallers were not selected for persecution. With respect to informers, he thought they were the pests of society, and were entitled to no sympathy, whether they proceeded against the rich or poor.
 Mr. Lockhart  believed, that it was the general opinion in Scotland that relief to the able-bodied poor in that country would degrade its peasantry; but he could not allow the third reading to pass without again entering his protest against the Settlement Clause, which would greatly interfere with the working of a measure in other respects unexceptionable. The grievance which that clause would entail on Scotland was unknown in England. The Irishman who laboured there during the greater part of a long life gained no settlement; and in his own country he had no absolute right to relief under any circumstances; yet hon. Members combined to give him a settlement in Scotland after a residence of five years; so that what could not be effected by an industrious residence of fifty years at one side of the Tweed, five years of indolence would gain him on the other. Hence, Irishmen who exhausted themselves in other parts of the kingdom would flow into Scotland, in order to gain a settlement. This, he repeated, was most unjust and ungenerous to Scotland.
 Sir G. Strickland  considered the Bill contained the foundation of a good principle, and one from which the public would derive great benefit. He should, therefore, support the second reading of the Bill; but he certainly thought Clause 8 was too stringent.
 Mr. Ward  said, that the noble Lord had cruelly misrepresented him. He said distinctly that no word could be too strong to
 805
 Mr. Ward  wished to say a few words in justice to a gentleman who had not the advantage of making any observations on his own case, and with whom he had been on intimate terms for many years. He did not defend that portion of his conduct for which he had received the censure of the right hon. Baronet, and he had told him so himself; for he thought nothing could justify a transfer of shares by a gentleman who held an official situation for services rendered in a Committee of the House; but, in justice to Mr. Wray and Mr. Bonham, the House must recollect how disgraceful was the constitution of Committees a few years since, how impossible it was for any person having a Bill to get through the House to have a chance of obtaining attention to the facts of the case, unless some person of influence and standing lent his name and took charge of the Bill, which he understood was the position in which Mr. Bonham stood; and as to canvassing, he told his hon. Friend near him, when he first saw the Report, that it was useless to pretend to impracticable purity. He held it to be impossible ever
 803 Hawes:
 Mr. Ward  having presented a Petition from the New Zealand Company, relative to the state of that Colony,
 Sir James Graham  felt it necessary to say two or three words, in consequence of what had fallen from the noble Lord opposite. He had never, since be came into the Home Office, had any personal communication with Mr. Wray, who was personally unknown to him, and towards whom he had but acted judicially. He looked at the Report of the Committee, and weighed carefully the precise expressions which were applied to his conduct, namely, that it was deserving of "severe animadversion;" and in writing the letter to Mr. Wray he had acted solely on his own responsibility, exercising, to the best of his judgment, a dispassionate consideration of the facts; and whatever he had urged, he rejoiced was urged at the side of lenity. He hoped the House would pause until they saw the letter which he had written. It was a letter which contained "severe animadversion," and if it was the pleasure of the House to take any ulterior course, it would be a subject of future discussion, subsequently to the production of the letter.
 Sir J. Graham  readily agreed that the permission given to Mr. Wray to employ himself as a barrister was no palliation for the circumstance to which the hon. Gentleman referred; but admitting that such conduct was indefensible, he thought that, considering the lapse of time, and other circumstances to which he had adverted, and not wishing to act with undue severity, the letter he had written would meet the justice of the case.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that although on ordinary occasions he did not think it advisable to notice the terms in which the Secretary of State was under the painful necessity of reprehending a public officer, yet, considering all the circumstances of the present case, he was prepared to lay the letter on the Table.
 Sir J. Graham : Since the Report of the Committee to which the hon. Gentleman refers, and of which he was the Chairman, was presented to the House, I have thought it my official duty carefully to consider the evidence, and, upon mature reflection, considering that the transaction in which Mr. Wray was involved took place as far back as 1836—that it was not immediately connected with the subject-matter which gave rise to the inquiry, and also weighing the terms of the Report, in which the expression is used, that Mr. Wray's conduct, in the opinion of the Committee, was deserving of serious animadversion, I thought, that upon the whole, I should best discharge the duty of my office by putting on record a public letter addressed to Mr. Wray, in which I animadverted strongly on the conduct of Mr. Wray in the year 1836. It should be observed in justice to Mr. Wray, that at that time, with reference to the terms under which he exercised the function of Receiver, it was open to him to employ himself in another business. Since that time the additional labour which has devolved on Mr. Wray is considerable, involving also some augmentation of his salary; and prospectively, therefore, I have enjoined on Mr. Wray the paramount necessity of devoting his time exclusively to the business of the office; and I have told Mr. Wray that any employment undertaken by him, not immediately connected with those duties, will, in my opinion, be the ground of his immediate removal. I can assure the House I have considered this matter dispassionately, and in my humble judgment the letter I have written meets the full justice of the case.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that if the House went into Committee on the Bill, he would endeavour to meet the objections which had been urged against the Bill in a fair aud conciliatory spirit. With regard to the 8th Clause, he admitted that the terms of it were stringent; but he believed they would be necessary to put an end to the practice which prevailed in Doncaster and other places of persons taking lodgings during the races in private houses where gambling was carried on. Unless they armed the authorities in those localities with strong powers, the evil they sought to suppress would thrive and increase. He did not wish to press harshly on the licensed victuallers, further than to prevent the growing evil of gambling.
 Sir J. Graham  denied that the present Bill was brought in to meet the special case of certain individuals. He brought the measure forward on public grounds,
 795 primâ facie
 Sir J. Graham , on moving the Second Reading of the Games and Wagers Bill, said, that he was quite confident that the changes proposed in the existing law by the present Bill would be found most salutary in their operation. The objects of the Bill were twofold. Firstly, it gave additional facilities for the suppression of gaming houses kept open for the purpose of gaming; and, secondly, it amended the law with regard to wagers generally. With regard to the operation of the first portion of the measure, it gave to the justices of the peace, not included in the metropolitan districts, a power of granting warrants, on information given, to make a search, a power analogous to that now exercised within the metropolitan dissricts. Within the metropolitan districts the Bill enlarged the existing power. To issue a warrant heretofore it was necessary to get the information signed by two householders; but, as might be supposed, there was an unwillingness on the part of householders to grant this information. The Bill, therefore, proposed that the warrant to search might be granted on the information of the superintendent of police, and the finding of gaming implements was
 794 qui tam
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said he was anxious to recall the attention of the House to the observations which had been made to-night with reference to the missionaries in New Zealand. The  animus 861 862 C. Buller;
 Sir R. Inglis : Did the hon. and learned Gentleman wish him to interrupt him a second time? If so, he would give him an answer. If not, he would wait till the hon. and learned Gentlemen had done.
 Sir Robert Inglis  protested against the Bill as inconsistent with the Christian char-
 870
 Sir R. Inglis  rose to explain, but the cries for a division were so loud and so general, that the hon. Baronet's explanation did not reach us.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that any delay in passing the Bill through its stages would be most prejudicial to the public service. The main part of the correspondence alluded to was in the Slave Trade Papers. He would postpone the third reading of the Bill, if the House would consent to the Committee being taken, so as to give time to look into the correspondence.
 Sir R. Peel  then proposed that the Bill now be committed  pro formâ,
 Sir R. Peel  moved that the Jewish Disabilities Bill be read a third time.
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, I am prepared now to state to the House, in consequence of the question which has just been put to me by the hon. Member for Lambeth, and which I understood would be put to me, the course which has been taken by Her Majesty's Government, after a full consideration of the Report of the Committee to which the hon. Gentleman refers. Shortly after the Report was presented to the House, Mr. Bonham and Captain Boldero signified to me their wish to tender their resignations of the situations which they respectively held under Her Majesty. They stated, that although—speaking with reference to transactions of the present year which had been brought under the consideration of the Committee—they felt conscious of their perfect integrity, and that their conduct as public officers could not, in the slightest degree, be influenced by the holding of shares in any railway, yet, at the same time, they believed that their efficiency and usefulness as members of a public department were likely to be impaired by that Report. They, therefore, felt themselves called upon to tender their resignations, and I considered it to be my duty to advise Her Majesty to accept them, and Her Majesty has accepted them. In respect to Mr. Wray, who holds the office of Receiver General of Metropolitan Police, my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department has forwarded to Mr. Wray a communication, in which he seriously animadverted on the proceedings of this gentleman in reference
 798
 The Solicitor General  said, he thought that the effect of that part of the Bill had been misapprehended by the hon. Member. The clause objected to contained no power for the attachment of wages on their passage from the hands of the master
 891
 Mr. Bingham Baring  was induced to make a few observations on what had fallen from the hon. Member for Taunton (Sir T. E. Colebrooke). The hon. Member had drawn an analogy between the inquiry which had been made into the case of the Rajah of Sattara, and that which had been made into the case of a feudal chieftain in the North-West Provinces, who had been guilty of the murder of Mr. Fraser; but it was impossible to adapt the same mode of proceeding to the judicial trial of a subject for the crime of murder, and to the investigation of the political conduct of a dependent Sovereign to whom a breach of Treaty was alone imputed. Much blame had been cast upon Sir Robert Grant's conduct in this case; but the circumstances of India at the time had been altogether overlooked. The right hon. Member for Edinburgh told us, in a debate upon the Affghan war, that there prevailed about that period a general impression throughout the whole Empire, that the epoch of British dominion had reached its term. The star of England was considered to be upon the wane, and the advent of a mysterious power from the North-West was expected to overwhelm us. Upon the same occasion, the authority of General Cubbon, Governor of Mysore, and of Colonel Sutherland, Governor of Rajpootana, were quoted, to show that there never had existed such a ferment among the native princes of India.
 946 947 "2. My entire conviction of the Rajah's guilt in the instances charged against him is on record; subsequent events have only tended to confirm it; but the very act of his refusing the conditions of oblivion and reconciliation—conditions which even spared him the mortification of expressly acknowledging guilt, particularly the first, as connected with his remark that it would place him in a subordinate situation, is a virtual declaration that he did not hold himself bound by the Treaty of 1819; and, even setting aside his former infractions of the Treaty, shows that no dependence could have been placed on him at any future period." "5. 'The whole substance of the new memorandum (yad) is this, that nothing is to be done without consulting the Resident. Then I am to be like a Mamlutdar only, and to be subject to continual annoyance, and to have my people wearied, and entirely to let the statements of my enemies be confirmed.' I would not sign it, in consequence, although the Resident brought me the memorandum, and left it to them to make what arrangements they thought proper, on making reference to (the authorities) in Europe and Calcutta, for when requisite I shall speak in presence of those gentlemen who were present, whatever I have to say." 948
 Mr. Tatton Egerton  said, the hon. Member who had just sat down had talked of the agriculturists' picking one another's pockets, but he had said nothing about the great manufacturers of Lancashire or Yorkshire adopting the same course in picking the pockets of all England. He did not, however, reproach the manufacturers for making large fortunes; but he would ask, why were not the landed proprietors to have also a return for their capital? If the profits of the two classes, namely, the agriculturists and the manufacturers, were compared together, he was convinced that the latter would be found to be beyond all comparison the greater.
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  wished his hon. Friend would not press his Motion to a division; but at the same time, if he did so, he (Mr. O'Connell) would feel it his duty to vote with him. His constituents: depended more on the sale of butter, than even on corn; but still he thought one rule should be applied to all agricultural produce; and in proof of the little danger which was to be apprehended from foreign competition, he might refer to the flax-growers of Ulster, who, though at first alarmed at the reduction of the duty on flax, now produced a larger quantity of that article than they had ever done before.
 The Attorney General  observed, that the House should take care that they were not hurried into rash legislation as to this matter. To a certain extent, he entirely agreed with the hon. and learned Member. The hon. and learned Gentleman was induced to take up the subject, by reason of great abuses which existed in the county with which he himself was more intimately connected. These abuses principally consisted in exacting fees from persons before they were allowed to plead, in taking fees from parties who were acquitted, and in compelling persons to traverse, and so obtaining fees from them. He entirely agreed with the hon. and learned Member, that these were great abuses, and that they should also be remedied; and he was quite prepared to introduce any measure which might have the effect of remedying them. But his hon. and learned Friend had been led too far by his own strong feelings. In the Bill which he had introduced, the House would at once perceive that the principal object was to abolish all fees, in all cases whatsoever, whether of acquittal or conviction; and, whether on trial or indictment, or upon more summary proceedings. By the 55th George III., the fees on acquittal, taken from prisoners, tried either for felony or misdemeanor, were entirely abolished. That Act did not certainly go to the extent for which his hon. and learned Friend properly contended, because it only applied to the case when the parties were in prison, and charged with felonies or misdemeanors, and afterwards acquitted. It was a great evil, that parties out on bail, charged with misdemeanor, and afterwards acquitted, should be made to pay fees on that acquittal. He thought that no parties should be called upon to pay fees, before they were admitted to plead. Nor should any party be compelled to traverse, for the purpose of giving fees to the officer; but he was not disposed to say, if a person was disposed to traverse, that all fees on traverses should be abolished. He agreed, that with regard to acquittals, no fee should be taken from a party, whether he were discharged out of prison, or out on bail, and tried for misdemeanor and acquitted. He concurred with the principle so far, as that it was improper to demand fees before parties were permitted to plead; that was a grievance, and that he would remedy; and to that extent he went
 959
 Lord Ashley  defended the permanent character of the Bill; and contended that it was absolutely necessary to pay large salaries, in order to have men of talent and standing in their professions as Commissioners. In his opinion it was much more economical that the Bill should be permanent.
 Mr. Escott , in moving the Second Reading of Fees in Criminal Courts Bill, said, persons brought up to a court of justice had certain fees to pay if they were not convicted; and those who were found guilty, had frequently to pay more than ten times the amount of the fine imposed on them in the shape of fees. Interests had sprung up from these fees to defend this system. There were those now living, who remembered when the office of clerk of assize was sold for several thousand pounds, and by a Judge of assize. He trusted that the Bill would be read a second time. If, in preparing its provisions, he had gone too far in any particular, that might be considered in Committee. They could not possibly stop short as regarded the great principle involved in the measure.
 Mr. Newdegate  would only make a single observation. It was to express a hope that though the agricultural Members might be silent on the present occasion, the House would not suppose them to be indifferent to the subject under consideration.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, he for one had not confidence in the Government. The right hon. Baronet asked, why not bring forward a Motion of want of confidence? If such a Motion were made, the right hon. Baronet would probably find himself having recourse to the other side of the House to help him through.
 Mr. Aglionby  approved of the principle of the Bill, and was glad the subject had fallen into such hands. The object was to remove a grievance which pressed severely on many of Her Majesty's subjects; and, if the Bill went too far, and repealed Acts of Parliament, some of which the Attorney General admitted should not remain on the Statute Book, he thought they had a right to expect from the hon. and learned Attorney General a statement of what particular Acts of Parliament he was willing to extend the operation of the Bill to. He would suggest that the Bill should be allowed to be read a second time; and, that in the mean time the Attorney General should consider to what Acts of Parliament the Bill should extend.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he should certainly confine himself, as the hon. Member had anticipated, to the financial bearings of the subject. The hon. Member had intimated that if they went into Committee, he should move the total repeal of these duties; to that Motion he should offer a decided opposition. He need scarcely remind the hon. Gentleman or the House, that the financial arrangements for the year had been made. In making those arrangements, the Government had endeavoured to give the most relief to the interests of the country. Some there were who thought they had gone beyond prudence; but that they had gone to the extreme verge of prudence was the opinion of all, for they had proposed such a reduction of duties, that when the calculations of revenue and of expenditure for the year were made, they proposed to leave at the end of the year a surplus not exceeding 100,000 l. 951 l.,
 Mr. E. Tennent  said, the Motion to which the hon. Member had called the notice of the House, was one with which by name, at least, they might be somewhat familiar; inasmuch as this was, he believed, the eighteenth occasion on which it had been, either directly or incidentally, brought under the consideration of Parliament. The object of the hon. Member for Montrose was, to procure the reconsideration of a case which had been investigated in the year 1836, and solemnly disposed of with every ordinary and controlling formality; and the frequency of these unsuccessful appeals, if they exhibited on the one hand a perseverance which might be identified with a consciousness of the justice of their cause, demonstrated on the other a deliberation and firmness on the part of the numerous authorities who had been appealed to, concurring, as they all did, in rejecting the application, which could be attributable to one only conviction—that substantial justice had been already done, and that no plea existed for questioning the decision or reviving the inquiry. The inquiry into the charge against the ex-Rajah of Sattara, which had issued in his dethronement, was gravely and dispassionately conducted before a competent Commission in India; their verdict had been confirmed by authorities at Bombay, sanctioned by the Supreme Government of India, approved of by the Court of Directors, and recorded by the Board of Control; and although the propriety of reopening that inquiry had been referred to three successive Governors of Bombay, to three successive Governors General of India, to three Presidents of the India Board, and to a long series of Chairmen and Directors of the East India Company, the judgment upon it had been invariably the same—that the original decision was conformable with truth and consistent with justice; and that a reconsideration of a question so solemnly decided, would be not only unavailing as regarded the deposed Prince, but would be injurious to the administration of justice, and prejudicial to the authorities by whom it had been originally
 910 nisi prius 911 912 913 914 "Since my arrival in this presidency, it has been my duty, as opportunities have incidentally presented, to satisfy myself, as well by observation as personal inquiry, respecting the bearing and public reputation of all the Hon. Company's servants, especially of those holding offices of high trust and responsibility; and had I been called upon to name officers universally well spoken of and esteemed, I should certainly have included Colonel Ovans in the number; and this must have been the opinion formed by the late Commander-in-Chief, for on Sir R. Grant's requesting Lord Keane to name an able and judicious officer to hold the appointment of Resident at Sattara, he recommanded his Quartermaster General, Colonel Ovans."
 Dr. Bowring  seconded the Motion, and said that it was deeply to be regretted, when subjects involving the well-being of our vast Indian Empire were introduced into the House, the interest taken was so small that the benches, as at present, were almost wholly deserted. Matters which had the piquancy of personal controversy were attractive enough; but those which directly affected the happiness of millions of our distant fellow subjects obtained little or no attention. In the case before the House, he found few hon. Members had waded through the numerous volumes of Papers which had been printed by orders of the House; but there was no portion of them which did not contain striking evidence of the widely-spread devices to entangle the Rajah; and on his part, a constant desire was everywhere visible to be confronted with his accusers, to court inquiry, and to demand a rigid scrutiny. On one side was confused, entangled, inconsistent, and contradictory evidence; on the other, an injured but highminded man, strong in his conviction of his own innocence, appealing to the Government of India, to the Government of England, and now to the British Parliament, for a fair investigation—demanding punishment if guilty, but redress and reparation if wrongly accused. And should the Rajah appeal in vain? It was impossible to read his eloquent and pathetic language without feeling that such a man, so speaking, was entitled to attention. With such evidence of mendacity, of fraud and
 909
 Dr. Bowring  said, if the manufacturers of this country required the consumers to pay a higher price than the same article could be procured for elsewhere, then, indeed, the comparison drawn by the hon. Member who had last spoken would hold good. But the manufacturers had repeatedly declared that they required no protection, and they even showed that those manufactures which had been most protected had progressed least.
 Mr. Hume  thought, it could be shown that the Revenue would receive the same amount of money, and the duty be reduced at the same time. Every reduction of duty on other articles had increased the Revenue; and if these duties were reduced one-half, the same sum might be received, and a great benefit conferred.
 Mr. Hume , in his reply, was understood to say that he would confine himself chiefly to one point. The hon. Member for Beverley had defended Colonel Ovans, and found fault with him for his observations on that officer. In reply to the hon. Member, he would beg leave to read to the House an extract of a statement he had previously submitted to the Earl of Ripon. In that he said—
 "In a letter from Captain Durack to Colonel Ovans, dated 27th September, 1837, and forwarded by that officer to the Bombay Government, it is stated that Colonel Ovans authorized the writer (Captain Durack) to pay a sum of money to an obscure subject (Bhaw Lilly) of the Sattara State, for Papers that would implicate his Sovereign; and it appears that the sum of 150 rupees was actually paid in advance. "By his letter to the Bombay Government, dated the 11 th November, 1837, par. pa. 403, Colonel Ovans reports that he has obtained Papers from one Balkoba Kelkur (a gang robber) for 400 rupees (40 l. 949
 Mr. Hume  thought that the clause could not with any consistency or fairness be introduced into the Bill, and would suggest that it might be better to introduce a private Bill to effect the purpose of the clause.
 Mr. Hume  supported the Motion, because, in his opinion, it was of the utmost importance that the public should see how the Bill worked. He also contended, that, as the Commissioners were to be paid such large salaries, their daily attendance ought to be enforced.
 Mr. Hume  rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice relative to the Rajah of Sattara. He felt, he said, great reluctance to interfere between the House and an adjourned debate, but having arrived at that late period of the Session, if he let that opportunity slip he was afraid—
 Mr. Hume  said his statement would be very short, and as it was a matter in which justice had already been too long delayed, he trusted he should be allowed to go on. His object was to move—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, that she will be graciously pleased to direct an impartial inquiry into the Charges against Pertaub Shean, late Rajah of Sattara, and also whether he has been furnished with a Copy of the Charges and Evidence against him on which he was, in 1839, deposed from his Raj, and sent an exile and a State prisoner to Benares; and that Her Majesty will be pleased further to direct inquiry to be made into the charges of Bribery and Corruption brought by Krushnajee Sudasew Bhidey (as stated in the Papers recently laid before this House), against Colonel Ovans, whilst Resident at Sattara, and against Ballajee Punt Nathoo, who assisted Colonel Ovans at the Court of Sattara, and is now a Prisoner under the East India Company, as a Sirdar of the second class." "That your Petitioner, for many years a faithful ally, and a great feudatory of Her Majesty's Indian Empire, has recently, by the East India Company's Government, under the accusation of treason and secret hostility—crimes which he never even in imagination conceived—on evidence corrupt and one-sided, as well as inconsistent and contradictory—without a trial, and without the opportunity of self-defence—been despoiled of his throne and dominions, and consigned to exile." 894 "With regard to the evidence, oral and documentary, which the whole power and influence of the British Government have been for years employed to procure and accumulate against your Petitioner, it has not been in his power to offer the clearest disproof; because, although he has been pronounced guilty, and deposed upon that evidence, he has been peremptorily denied all knowledge of it." "Wherefore your Petitioner respectfully solicits from your honourable House a consideration of his case, and of the treatment he has received, as well as the high character he has invariably maintained amongst his people and the Princes of India. While he implores from your honourable House that justice which, had his lot been that of a peasant, it would have been his right to claim from the laws of the British realm, he cannot forget that it is as a dethroned and exiled Prince that he appeals to your honourable House. He trusts, that the vast power which has been placed by Divine Providence in the hands of the Government of Great Britain will not be exercised to his continued wrong? and he hopes the injustice and degradation which he has suffered in innocence, will not be permitted to appear on the page of history, to tarnish the glory of the British name, and the conduct and character of that Government in India, towards a Sovereign, once its honoured ally, now its helpless prisoner."
 Mr. Forster  then moved, that the House resolve itself into Committee, for the purpose of considering the propriety of repealing the duty on a great number of articles, such as quinine, torrified starch, horses, mares, colts, &c. He would not, at that late hour, trouble the House by going into the particulars of all these items; but he thought, considering the small amount of duty received from them, that they ought to have been included in the general Tariff; and he hoped the right hon. Baronet would give some satisfactory reason for their omission.
 Mr. P. Howard  said, that in Warwickshire, Cheshire, and some other counties, where a large quantity of cheese was made, the farmer would suffer materially if that branch of agricultural produce were much interfered with. After the concession which the Government had made to the commercial interest at the commencement of the session, he thought it was hardly fair to make any fresh demand. The agriculturists ought not to be deprived of all protection.
 Mr. Cobden  feared if some of his hon. Friends near him supported a scale of duties for such articles, it would be necessary for him to dissolve partnership with them. It would, he was convinced, be found that any duty on articles of food would fall doubly as heavy on the labouring man as on the rich man, and thus the Government would be in a dilemma, in which they should abolish the duties altogether. Though the hon. Members for Derbyshire, and some other counties, might find it to be for the interest of their constituents to support the duties on butter and cheese, he could not see why the Members for Norfolk and Suffolk, for instance, should adopt the same course. If the right hon. Baronet would take the trouble of making inquiries on the subject, he would find that there were six or eight counties taxing the rest of the country, as well as all Ireland and Scotland, in order that they might receive a high price for their cheese. In the same manner, if the right hon. Baronet took up other articles, such as oats, beans, hops, and barley, which were produced in particular
 953
 Mr. T. Duncombe  protested against the appointment of medical and legal men as Commissioners with such enormous salaries. He would beg to move, as an Amendment, "That the salary be 1,200 l. l.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  objected very strongly to that part of the Bill providing that the wages of workmen should be arrested in the hands of their masters for the payment of their debts. He objected to that clause operating in any case, except that of yearly salaries. Weekly wages were very uncertain, sometimes more, sometimes less. If that part of the Bill were persisted in, he thought that it would be found to operate to the extreme dissatisfaction of all parties.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  proposed the introduction of a clause limiting the Bill to three years, and from that time to the then next Session of Parliament. The hon. Member again urged his former objections against the payment to the Commissioners of such enormous salaries.
 Mr. M. Gibson  admitted that the right hon. Gentleman ought not to be expected to announce on the part of the Government what reduction of duties they would propose, and what would be their fiscal policy for the future. He was glad, however, to find the right hon. Gentleman justifying these duties only on fiscal grounds, and declare that the only benefit the country received from these duties was 347,000 l. 952
 Mr. Wakley  said, it appeared to him that upon all questions of personal grievance the Government seemed to make it a rule to get rid of the complaint by a large majority, and thus the responsibility of the Executive Government was removed from it by the decision of the House. He thought that this was rather an appeal to the Government than to the House. The First Lord of the Treasury ought to make himself perfect master of the case, and bring it to a satisfactory conclusion. For his own part, he knew little or nothing of it until he heard it discussed in the House that night; and having listened patiently to the statements that had been made on both sides of the House, he had come to the conclusion that the Rajah of Sattara was a most injured man, and that the least that could be done was to institute an inquiry. Should the prayer of the Rajah's petition be withheld, it would be a most serious reflection upon the Government. The hon. Member for Beverley had failed to prove what he attempted. Commenting upon the evidence taken at Sattara, the hon. Member opposite had said that the witnesses were most reckless persons, that they utterly disregarded the truth, and that they had no apprehension of consequences, their names being concealed.
 945
 Mr. Wakley  said, he must enter his protest against proceeding with the Bill, because since the Bill was brought down from the other House, thirteen new clauses had been introduced, and three schedules had been added, which hon. Members had never before seen. He should feel it his duty to move that the chairman do report progress, and obtain leave to sit again. He would only ask for one day, in order to consider these new clauses.
 Mr. Ewart  was placed in some difficulty by the request. He stood pledged to several parties to bring on the Motion which stood in his name, and he feared another opportunity would not offer during the Session. He stood in a peculiar
 893
 Mr. Ewart  rose to move that the House go into a Committee to consider the Duties of Customs on Butter and Cheese. He was of opinion that these duties should be totally repealed; in the first place, because they placed well nigh a prohibition on the consumption, by the poorer classes, of articles of the greatest importance to them; in the second place, because they operated as a great restriction upon our trade and commerce;
 950
 Mr. Ewart  replied: he begged to remind the right hon. Baronet, that it was in consequence of the right hon. Baronet's suggestion he had postponed his Motion on a former occasion. He wished, also to add, that when he spoke of a reduction in these duties, it was from a conviction, that if the rates of duty were reduced one-half on butter and cheese, the gross amount received by the Revenue would fully equal that now arising from these sources.
 Mr. W. Williams  supported the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose. The hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Board of Control (Mr. Tennent.) had made many assertions, but he had not proved any facts. He (Mr. Williams) knew nothing whatever of Colonel Ovans; he might be, and probably was a highminded and honourable man; but so long as these charges were impending over him, and an investigation of their truth or falsehood was denied, his character could not be regarded as entirely free from suspicion. The most important charge made against the Rajah was, that he had entered into a conspiracy with the Portuguese Governor of Goa. Now, this was a fact, the truth of which Her Majesty's Government might easily ascertain; but no proof had been adduced on the subject. He considered that it was the duty of the Government to institute some inquiry with reference to the allegations contained in this petition.
 Sir C. Napier  moved the introduction of a clause to the effect that any parish having a population of 100,000 persons, and rated at a rental of 500,000 l.,
 Sir J. Graham  objected to the clause being introduced into the Bill, because it was nothing less than engrafting a new Bill upon the one at present under discussion. In fact, it was subject matter for a private Bill. He also objected to the clause, because it would break up the
 892
 Sir James Graham  said, he was very sorry that, owing to a mistake of the printer, the Bill had not been put into the hands of hon. Members at an earlier period. If the hon. Member pressed his Motion, he (Sir J. Graham) should not think he was doing his duty if he did not at once accede to it. He did not think, however, that there was anything in the new clauses that would be found objectionable, and he would postpone the Bill till Thursday.
 Sir J. Graham  said, he had collected from the hon. Gentleman that it would be agreeable to all parties to postpone the Bill till to-morrow.
 Sir J. Graham  said, he could give no premature opinion on the subject of a private Bill, because he should like to know what the ratepayers of a part of Paddington, who were a portion of the parish of Marylebone, and a very poor portion indeed, would say to the introduction of a private Bill.
 Sir J. Graham  had understood, that the object of the hon. Member was merely to abolish fees charged upon the acquittal of parties, of fees exacted from persons admitted to bail, and from persons forced to plead. To that extent, as he had stated last year, he was prepared to go with his hon. Friend; but this Bill went further, and proposed to repeal some Acts of Parliament under which fees were imposed under other circumstances, to its full extent, therefore he could not concur in it. Being prepared to support the object of his hon. Friend so far as he had said, he should vote for the second reading of the Bill, upon the understanding that it would be modified in Committee.
 Mr. Hogg  said, that when hon. Members made attacks upon the characters of gentlemen of high honour, who occupied distinguished stations in the service of their country, they should, at least, be certain that they were accurate in the facts on which they grounded their statements. Not so with the hon. Member for Montrose. He had so confounded dates, transactions, and witnesses, that he (Mr. Hogg) felt satisfied, that the hon. Member could not have read with any attention the Papers laid on the Table. The hon. Member had commenced by stating, that he would not enter into the details of the case of the Rajah of Sattara, and would confine himself to what he termed the new matter, the charges now for the first time preferred against Colonel Ovans and Ballajee Punt Nathoo; and yet he had rambled over the whole transactions, throwing out imputations most unsparingly, and giving a bit here, and a bit there, from the Papers, but in a manner so unconnected, that hon. Members who had not toiled through the mass of blue books, could understand little, save that imputations more or less grave had been cast upon many gentlemen filling high and important public offices. The House would suppose from the statement of the hon. Member, that the Rajah of Sattara had
 918 "The Rajah was released from a prison, and was placed at the head of a Government obtained by no effort of his own, but which was the spontaneous result of the liberality of the British Government." 919 "Whereas the British Government having determined, in consideration of the antiquity of the House of his Highness the Rajah of Sattara, to invest him with a sovereignty sufficient for the maintenance of his family in comfort and dignity, the following Articles have been agreed to between the said Government and his Highness. "ART. 1. The British Government agrees to cede in perpetual sovereignty to the Rajah of Sattara, his heirs and successors, the districts specified in the annexed schedule. ART. 2. The Rajah, for himself, and for his heirs and successors, engages to hold the territory in subordinate co-operation with the British Government, and to be guided in all matters by the advice of the British Agent at His Highness's court. "ART. 3, The British Government charges itself with the defence of the Rajah's territories, and engages to protect His Highness from all injury and aggression. The Rajah, for himself, and for his heirs and successors, engages to afford every facility for the purchase of supplies for such troops as may be stationed in his country, or may pass through it; and the pasture lands now appropriated for the use of the troops are to be permanently given up to them. The Rajah likewise, for himself, and for his heirs and successors, engages to afford all the assistance in his power to the British Government, in all wars and military operations in which they may be engaged. "ART. 4. His Highness, for himself, and for his heirs and successors, engages at no time to increase or diminish the military force, without the previous knowledge and consent of the British Government. "ART. 5. The Rajah, for himself, and for his heirs and successors, engages to forbear from all intercourse with Foreign Powers, and with all Sirdars, Jagheerdars, Chiefs, and Ministers, and all persons of whatever description, who are not by the above Articles rendered subject to His Highness's authority. With all the above persons, His Highness, for himself, and for his heirs and successors, engages to have no connexion or correspondence. Any affairs that may arise with them relating to His Highness, are to be exclusively conducted by the British Government. If (for the purpose of forming matrimonial connexions for His Highness's family, or for any similar purpose) His Highness has occasion to communicate with persons not rendered subject to his authority by this agreement, such communication is to made entirely through the Political Agent. "This Article is a fundamental condition of the present agreement, and any departure from it, on the Rajah's part shall subject him to the loss of all the advantages he may gain by the said agreement." 920 "That His Highness, the Rajah, is ambitious, and capable of giving countenance to any conspiracy that has the advancement of that object in view, I have no doubt. So far back as November, 1885, a devoted friend of the British Government privately reported to me, that the conversation between His Highness and his particular intimates constantly hinged on the downfall of the British Government. He further mentioned, that there were rumours of a combination, to join which His Highness was invited—adding, that he very possibly might be flattered into acceding to the plot. Nothing short of the high respectability of my informant could have induced me to give a moment's credit to their report." "That it was beyond doubt that the Rajah had proved faithless to his engagements with the British Government:"— 921 "Deeply as I regret the errors of His Highness the Rajah, I can discover no extenuating circumstances;"— "The circumstances within my knowledge, detailed in the depositions of the native officers, admit of no doubt of their credibility." "They were taken separately; and full
 922 923 primâ facie "Earnestly pressed to allow the evidences, who were in attendance, to be introduced, that he might hear their history from their own lips." 924 "In the troubles that followed, and in the settlement of the country, he (Ballajee Punt Nathoo) showed himself an able, zealous, and trustworthy public servant. He was my principal native agent, during most of the time I was in the Deccan, was consulted by me on all subjects, and gave me every reason to be satisfied with his judgment and fidelity." "Are you intimately acquainted with the person whose evidence was taken at the last day's meeting, whose name has not been recorded?" "I have been intimate with him since I have been at Sattara, whenever he visits the place; and from his extremely high character, and influence over the Rajah, I have been enabled to carry points and settle disputes which I should have hardly been able to effect without him." Question.—"From your knowledge of his character, have you full confidence in his veracity?" Answer.—"Yes, I have, as far as in any native in India I have ever known. His former intimacy with, and the confidence reposed in him by, most eminent men now in England, are the best proof of his high character." Question—"Do you think it likely that he is so much in the interest of Appa Sahib, the Rajah's brother, as to induce him to deviate from the truth?" Answer—"No, I do not." 925 926 "To play at treason is a dangerous sport; and I am much inclined to believe, that a State which consents to laugh at such jests as these, will quickly be in a situation to justify the utmost derision of its enemies." 927 928 "Information having been received by the British Government, that your Highness, misled by evil advisers, had, in breach of the Treaty which placed you on the throne, entered into communications hostile to the British Government, an inquiry into these accusations was considered indispensable. This inquiry has satisfied the British Government, that your Highness has exposed yourself to the sacrifice of its alliance and protection. Nevertheless, moved by considerations of clemency towards your Highness and your family, the British Government has resolved entirely to overlook what has past, on the following conditions, namely:— "First,—That your Highness now binds yourself strictly, and in good faith, to act up literally to all the Articles of the Treaty of the 25th of September, 1819, and especially to the Second Article of that Treaty, which is as follows;—The Rajah, for himself, and for his heirs and successors, engages to hold the territory in subordinate co-operation with the British Government, and to be guided in all matters by the advice of the British Agent at his Highness's Court. "Second,—That your Highness binds yourself to pay your brother Appa Sahib Maharaj, whatever allowances he has heretofore received, and to put him in possession of all his private property; and, should any dispute arise on this subject, the same is to be referred to the Resident, for adjustment, Appa Sahib Maharaj is also to be permitted to reside at any place he himself may choose, under the protection of the British Government. "Third,—That Bulwunt Row Chitnavees be dismissed from your Highness's counsels, and not permitted to reside within your Highness's
 929 "Fourth,—The persons whose names are inserted in a separate list having been guaranteed by the British Government in person, property, and allowances of every description, as the same stood in July, 1836, this guarantee is to be binding on your Highness, and all complaints against them are to be referred to the Resident. Should it appear necessary hereafter, to the British Government, to add the names of any other persons to this list, the same guarantee is to be extended to them, and it is to be acted upon in good faith by your Highness, in any manner that may be pointed out by the British Government. All complaints against these persons are also to be referred to the British Resident for his adjustment. "The above are the terms to be agreed to by your Highness, and these conditions are to be considered as supplemental to the Treaty of the 25th September, 1819, and to be signed and sealed as such, by your Highness; that there can be no modification in these terms, as your Highness's sincere well-wisher, the British Government offers them in the confidence that your Highness's penetration will recognize their moderation, and the expediency of a prompt acquiescence. It is confidently expected, also, that the clemency of the British Government in preserving your State (raj) will be duly appreciated by your Highness, as it cannot fail to be by the general voice of this country, and induce your Highness, for the future, scrupulously to maintain the relations of friendship and mutual confidence, by acting up to the provisions and principles of the Treaty." 930 "His conversation with me and his past conduct have satisfied me, that he is a man whom no Treaty can bind, and that he is firmly resolved not to re-enter into and fulfil the stipulations of the Treaty under which he was enthroned." 931 "The Principality of Sattara had no existence antecedently to the formation of the Treaty with the Rajah. By the subversion of the Peishwa's power, his territorial possessions, of which the territories now composing the State of Sattara formed a part, together with all the rights of sovereignty and supremacy which he exercised, devolved upon us. The Mahratta Federative Compact was dissolved: the nominal supremacy of the imprisoned descendant of Sevajee was virtually extinguished; the materials which formerly constituted the Mahratta Empire were dissipated. The full extent of the Rajah's claim upon the justice, and even the liberality of the British Government, might have been satisfied by a stipend or a jagheer; its policy awarded to him a dominion, under special restrictions however, having specifically for its object to guard against the assumption of that titular supremacy to which he still considered himself to possess an hereditary claim. "Finally, I must maintain, that in political questions involving the rights, interests, and conduct of its allies and dependants, the ruling power is the sole and proper judge; and that, in the case now under consideration, the British Government was not required to put the Rajah on his trial, and to be governed by the issue of it; but was strictly justified in
 932 933 934 935 936 "I have known Colonel Ovans personally, from his first arrival in India (I think, as far back as the year 1808, or thereabouts) to the present time; and I may add, intimately, throughout that period. For although circumstances prevented our meeting in later time for a considerable number of years, I never lost sight of him, or of the estimation in which he was held by all classes. Of his pecuniary transactions, I had also an opportunity of knowing much in former days: and, certainly, his disregard of all selfish considerations, untainted, however, by any approach to extravagance, would point him out to me as amongst the last men in the service who would be guilty of corruption, or dishonourable dealing in any way. In fact, to sum up my opinion of Colonel Ovans in a very few words, I believe him to be utterly incapable of the acts imputed to him by this petitioner, or of any act as a public servant, or private individual, that need be concealed from any one. With these sentiments, I would deal with this, as all former petitions from the same source, dismiss it at once." "The character and reputation of honourable men, who have well and zealously served the State, must not be left at the mercy of worthless and irresponsible individuals, who, urged by disappointment, or by some more unworthy motive, or employed as the mere tools of a faction, step forward as public accusers." "Taking this view, I consider it quite unnecessary to make any remarks on the case before us, further than to express my regret that an officer of Colonel Ovans's established character should be liable to be traduced by such a person as Bhire appears to be. But, this is an evil to which all public men are exposed, and especially
 937
 Sir Robert Peel  had been rather curious to know what Motion the hon. Member would have made, provided he succeeded in inducing the House to go into Committee. In the early part of the Session, when the hon. Member before brought the subject forward, he had been under the impression that the object of the hon. Member was to move for an absolute and total repeal of these duties; but now, when his right hon. Friend had argued that the Motion of the hon. Gentleman involved a loss of 350,000 l. 954 l. l. l. l., l. l. l. 955
 Sir R. Peel  said, when he had brought forward his reduced Tariff, he did not state that there were not other articles on which a reduction of duty ought not also to be made; but, considering the progress that the Government had made during the past three years in commercial reform, he thought the House might very well leave further alterations in their hands for future consideration.
 Sir R. Peel  said, it was in general very convenient that they should proceed consecutively with an adjourned debate; therefore, with the leave of the hon. Gentlemen, he would ask whether, if the discussion upon the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose were over in time to resume the debate upon the affairs of New Zealand, the hon. Gentlemen who had other Motions were prepared to give way for that purpose? It would be a great convenience to have it brought to a close.
 Sir Edward Colebrooke  said, that his main object in rising was to prevent a statement of the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Board of Control passing uncontradicted. He alluded to that portion of the hon. Gentleman's speech, in which he said that the proceedings in the case of this unfortunate prince were conducted in a manner usual in India. He knew not what cases the hon. Gentleman had in his mind when he made this statement; but certainly he (Sir E. Colebrooke) was ready to admit that the recent history of India exhibited instances
 940 941 "The grave inconvenience of a course of arduous and minute scrutiny into the possible plots and intrigues of the native States are, indeed, very obvious. Nor can it be necessary to dwell upon the unworthy labour of following out the petty and intricate ramification of such intrigues, or the questionable expedients that must be employed to expose the true meaning of proceedings covered with mystery. I would more strongly fix attention on the effect which seems justly dreaded by the honourable Court, of injuring the character of our Government for moderation, security and strength. In this instance, in an affair of no real importance to our power, the idea of mistrust on the part of the British Government, may have spread from Rajpootana to Madras and Malabar; and when all these evils shall have been increased, the serious practical difficulty must be incurred. It being known that the secret has been discovered, it may be impolitic not to take notice of that from which, had we continued in real or affected ignorance, we should have sustained no harm. Yet by what process and with what impression on the public mind is the guilty State to be tried, condemned and punished?" "That the Rajah should be furnished with a written statement, embodying a full and clear detail of the facts connected with the different charges, and of the names (with any reservations which may be absolutely required for the safety of the party) of the witnesses by whom they are proved, with a notice of the circumstances under which the evidence was obtained; and call for from him a similar written statement of whatever he may desire to urge in his own behalf." 942 943 "During my address, (are the words of Sir J. Carnac,) the Rajah evinced a considerable degree of impatience, and frequently interrupted me by abrupt declarations that he had committed no breach of alliance. When I had concluded, he stated that he regarded me as his friend and well-wisher, asserted that the accusations against him originated in the intrigues of his enemies; that as long as the British Government entertained the idea that he had cherished hostile designs, he could agree to nothing; but this idea being removed, he would agree to any thing I proposed; that he would consent to any thing except to abandon his religion, or to acknowledge that he had been our enemy." 944
 Mr. Beckett Denison  said, that he had received many letters from Yorkshire, requesting him to oppose that part of the Bill which enacted, that the inspectors created by it, should be paid out of the county rate, and the expense be thus saddled on the agriculturists.
 Mr. Duncan  agreed with what had fallen from his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley), that this was a question of far too great magnitude to be in the hands of any one Member of that House, however able or however willing to bring foward a measure of this nature—and no one was more ready to offer his tribute of thanks to the hon. Member for the trouble he had taken in maturing this Bill; but he begged to ask the hon. Member if he intended this Bill to extend to Scotland? If he did, it would be found to be altogether inapplicable to that country; for the very first clause authorized the inspectors to be paid out of borough rates, settled as the justices in special sessions, shall from time to time think fit. Now, in Scotland, no special sessions exist. To Clause 3, and many others, objection would be made, if the hon. Gentleman was determined to go on with the Bill. But he would strongly urge on the hon. Member to allow the whole subject to be taken up by Government, and by this means a measure might be got with which parties might be satisfied; whereas the present Bill would not, and could not, satisfy the country. The district which he (Mr. Duncan) represented, was one where a great number of flax mills would come under this Bill. At present a great desire existed among his constituents to carry out the objects of this Bill; but no fixed mode of doing so had yet been pointed out, although his Friends in Dundee had expended large sums in making experiments on the subject; and at this moment the Commissioners of Police had nominated a Committee for this very purpose. Under all the circumstances of the case, he earnestly hoped Government would step in and take the matter into their hands, as they alone were able and ought to grapple with a national question of this vast importance.
 Mr. Clive , who was nearly inaudible, stated (as we understood) that the question of reference had not been entered into before the Committee of that House to which the Bill had been referred.
 Mr. Grainger , before the noble Lord answered the question of the hon. Gentleman, wished to express his surprise that in a Bill of this nature, so important an element as the returns of the Income and Property Tax should have been thrown out of consideration.
 Mr. Bernal  said, he approved of the Bill as far as it went, and thought that it should be coupled and go together with the Deo-
 970
 Mr. Bouverie  said, this Bill had been carefully considered in the other House, and had received the sanction of Lords Brougham, Cottenham, Campbell, and Denman.
 Captain Rous  commenced by observing, that although he could not concur with the hon. and learned Gentleman in that
 971 l. bonâ fide l. 972 l., l. l. l. imperium in imperio. d. 973 974
 Lord G. Somerset  had read the clauses of the Bill, and, without going generally into its provisions at that moment, was ready to say that he thought it should receive the approbation of the House.
 Lord John Russell  thought the exceptions made by the hon. Member for Lymington were so unjust, that he could not support the Bill. He would recommend that further inquiries should be made, by Commission or otherwise, into the necessity existing for any exceptions at all. They had as yet arrived at no satisfactory conclusion; but by next Session, the hon. Gentleman the Member for Lymington would have the satisfaction of knowing that he had been a great benefactor to the country.
 Lord John Russell : Before entering on the question which is immediately before the House, I think it is due to a gentleman, whose name has been mentioned both by the hon. and learned Member for Bath, and by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, and by a right hon. Friend of mine, the Member for Taunton, to give my testimony as to the conduct of that gentleman as an officer in the public service. Now, Sir, my experience of that gentleman can only be an addition to the knowledge which the House has of his
 1010 Roebuck: 1011 R. Peel: 1012 1013 1014 1015 "Another important rule for your guidance, is to promote, as far as possible, the establishment of municipal and district governments for the conduct of local affairs, such as drainages, by-roads, police, the erecting and repair of local prisons, court-houses, and the like. Independently of the excellent uses of such institutions, regarded in a political light, there are none more consonant with the English character and habits, and none better calculated to an efficient and frugal expenditure of public money. It is of the utmost importance to withdraw from the Governor the care of these innumerable local petty details, and to relieve the public treasury from the wasteful expenditure in which it must be involved, so long as it is burdened with the double charge of collecting local assessments, and of effecting local works. Nor is there any better mode of training the colonists to the exercise of the more important duties of a free people, and a representative government." 1016 "I would not bear that any man should have the power of taking money out of my pocket except I gave him authority so to do." 1017 1018 1019 1020 l., 1021 1022 1023
 Mr. Hawes  said, that actuated by the same spirit in which the noble Lord opposite had just spoken—a spirit which had also been adopted by his hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield, in which all angry and party feeling had been dispensed with, he should endeavour to speak with all candour and fairness upon this subject. That was not a time to bandy party feeling; and if the right hon. Baronet had not altered his opinion since he last spoke, and was still willing to legislate in a conciliatory spirit, he (Mr. Hawes) owned that he should like to see that debate close at once with a speech of that description from the right hon. Gentleman, for he was sure that no other
 987 988 "I regret that the directors are not satisfied by the result of the interview between Lord Stanley and the deputation: but, as my own sentiments are in concurrence with those expressed by Lord Stanley, and as I have entire confidence in the desire of Lord Stanley to promote the welfare of the Company, so far as he can do it consistently with his own sense of public duty, and with public engagements entered into with the sanction of the Crown, I must decline interfering with the discretion of Lord Stanley." 989 990 991
 Mr. Hawes  wished to inquire of the noble Lord opposite (Lord G. Somerset), who was the only Member of the Government then present, if this Bill was sanctioned by the Government, and if the Government intended that it should pass? It was a Bill which, in his opinion, preserved all the evils of the old County Rates Act, which had led to all the inequalities of assessment which had hitherto been the opprobrium of the system. He was anxious to know if the Bill, as it stood at present, had received the sanction of the Government?
 Mr. Hawes  said, he should feel it his duty to divide the House on every exemption mentioned in the Bill.
 Mr. Hawes  objected to the Bill, because the hon. Member for Lymington, since the Bill had gone through the first Committee, had introduced so many exceptions, that they were more than the rule, and by that means it exempted the stronger and oppressed the weak, and upon that principle he would oppose the Bill.
 Mr. B. Escott  thought the hon. Member for Lymington was not treated fairly by the opponents of the Bill, because he had excepted some interests from the Bill.
 Mr. B. Escott  said, that he was in his place when the hon. Gentleman (Mr. French) addressed the House, and he did not hear one single word of what he said.
 Mr. C. P. Villiers  complained, that the hon. Member for Lambeth, after sitting on the Committee, and hearing the evidence on the part of the ironfounders and ironmasters, stayed away when the Report was drawn up, in order that he might oppose the Report when brought under the consideration of the House.
 Mr. F. French  said, he should not detain the House more than two or three minutes, whilst he addressed to it a few observations which he felt it necessary to make. He had seen in the public papers a report to the effect that a breach of the privileges of that House had been committed in regard of a speech being published in the  Times 965 966 s. d.; l., 967 968
 Mr. Darby  moved—
 "To insert the words, 'at which the property is rated to the Poor,' instead of the words, 'the full and fair annual value of the property.'"
 Mr. G. W. Hope , in explanation, said that on the first occasion that he had addressed the House, he stated distinctly that one of the grounds of Captain Fitzroy's recall was his conduct — his want of firmness — towards the natives in the first proceedings in the Bay of Islands in September last.
 Mr. Muntz  said, that it was a mere question of expense. If the sugar refiners were exempted, he should feel compelled to move, that he himself, and all other parties following the same trade, should likewise be exempted. He contended that there should be no exceptions at all.
 Mr. G. Palmer  rose to correct certain errors in the statements of the hon. and gallant Officer near him, relative to the New Zealand Company. It was with the perfect consent—nay, according to the wish of Mr. Huskisson—that the first expedition was sent out from this country. He understood that there was some impediment to Government undertaking the settlement of New Zealand at that time; some agreement, as lie was told, existing between France and England, not to extend their Colonial possessions between South America and New Holland. The expedition so often alluded to, however, sailed. Certain lands were purchased; and they were told, that if they wanted protection, a frigate would be sent out to the coast of New Zealand. It was then supposed that Russia was not so friendly a Power as he was willing to believe she was at present. The  Coromandel 981
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would not give his opinion upon the various provisions of the Bill, in the absence of his hon. and learned Friends. Their absence had been occasioned by an impression that the adjourned debate on New Zealand would have taken the precedence of other business.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  trusted that the statement which had been just made by the hon. Member would have the effect of allaying any irritation which the expressions the hon. Member had been described as having used on a former occasion appeared to him calculated to create. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) should be the last person in that House to prolong a discussion of that nature; but perhaps he might take the liberty of suggesting a more cautious observance of the rule of that House, not to comment on acts of individuals of the other House of Parliament, either in their legislative or their judicial capacity. The only mode in which they could secure themselves from attack was by a due observance of what was due to others; and if they wished to preserve their own privileges, they ought to be careful to set the example of not violating the privileges of the other House of Parliament. The best way to act was, to abstain from acting or speaking upon what rumour stated occurred in another place. He thought it his duty to
 969
 Mr. Roebuck  wished to say a few words to remove an unfounded impression from the mind of a gentleman who had addressed himself to him in very courteous terms. He stated that he had charged him with exercising a paramount influence in the Colonial Office, and with being himself at the bidding of the Missionary Society. What he did say was this—that from the necessity of that gentleman's position he exercised an influence in the Colonial Office — that it required very peculiar power on the part of any person coming to that office to avoid being subject to that influence — that he believed the person holding the seals of that Department at the present moment was not proof against such influence—and that therefore the responsible officer was, in reality, under an irresponsible officer. If he had imputed to the gentleman the suspicion of sorcery, it was only of that description which was implied in the power of a strong mind over a weak one. That was no imputation on the honour of the gentleman. That gentleman had stated that he had charged him with being at the bidding of the Missionary Society. Not at all. What he said was this—that having this influence he had adopted a line of policy in consequence of a certain feeling on his part that the Missionary Societies were doing great good in that part of the world. That he thought he was mistaken; he thought, therefore, his policy was wrong, but he never intended to say he was at the bidding of anybody, but merely that he obeyed the impulse of his own mind, which led him to a wrong conclusion.
 Mr. Wakley  recommended that the hon. Member for Lymington should give up his Bill altogether; and as the question affected the lives of the whole community, he should throw the responsibility of bringing in a Bill of the like nature upon the Government.
 Mr. Mackinnon  replied. He hoped that the House would permit the Bill to be tried as an experiment as it now stood; and if it succeeded with all the exceptions, it might be made to extend generally to all manufactures.
 Mr. Mackinnon  could not give his consent to any further alterations in the Bill.
 Mr. Mackinnon  hoped that a pledge would be given by the Government to introduce the measure early next Session.
 Mr. Mackinnon  brought up the Report of the Committee on the Smoke Prohibition Bill.
 Mr. W. Williams  supported the Bill. The object of the hon. Member for Lymington, in introducing this Bill, was to protect the industrious population of this country from a very great nuisance.
 Sir C. Lemon , in the absence of Mr. Godson, moved the addition of the following clause:—
 "Provided always, and be it further Enacted,
 963
 Sir C. Napier  said, that a question affecting the safety of a British settlement containing from 10,000 to 11,000 persons, was of very great importance to the country; and the more so, seeing the rapid strides which the Colony of New Zealand had made since it was first founded, in 1839. It was lamentable to see a Colony which in 1841 had 221 ships, and 80,000 l. 982 983 Hazard 984
 Mr. Ward  said, that as he had not taken any part in the previous debates, he might, as Chairman of the Committee appointed in 1836, on the subject of Colonial Lands, which had given rise to most of the subsequent projects of colonization, on the self-supporting system, be permitted to state his views on this question. He must here say, that he was not in any way connected with the New Zealand Company, nor had he been since the first establishment of that Company. The hon. and gallant Officer who just sat down had made three charges against the New Zealand Company. He accused them of selling land which they did not possess, of inveigling agricultural labourers by false representations to go out to the Colony, and of giving no explanation of an item of 40,000 l. l. 975 976 Ironical cries of from the Opposition. 977 978 R. Peel: 979 Sheil Nee tecum vivere possum, nec sine te. 980
 Mr. Ward  objected to the Bill, that it would be found impracticable to carry out many of the clauses. There were some trades and manufactures entirely exempted from its operation, and unless he were permitted to introduce some clauses to exempt the manufacturers and workers in Britannia metal, he should be obliged to move that the Report be taken into consideration that day three months.
 Sir James Graham  was most anxious to adopt the suggestions of the noble Lord, and, on the part of the Government would undertake that during the recess scientific inquiries should take place into the safety of extending the Bill to stationary steam engines; and on the House meeting next Session, the result should be made known, and, whether favourable to the exceptions or not, the reasons for that opinion should also be made known. His noble Friend the First Commissioner of Woods and Forests intended shortly to lay before the House a large and comprehensive measure on the health of towns, into which Bill the measures considered to be necessary from the report of the scientific inquiry, could be incorporated, or, into a separate and, he hoped, much more satisfactory measure.
 Sir R. Peel  said, it would be remembered that when he moved the second reading of the Brazilian Slave Trade Bill, he was requested by an hon. Gentleman opposite to postpone the Committee until he had ascertained whether the correspondence which had passed between the Government of Brazil and this country, in reference to the subject of the Slave Trade, could be laid before the House; and that he had on that occasion promised that he would look into that correspondence, and if he found that he could, consistently with his public duty, produce it, he would. He had since examined the correspondence in question; and as he saw nothing in it which should prevent its production, he would now lay it on the Table, and he had no doubt that it would be in the hands of hon. Members to-morrow (this day).
 Sir R. Peel  said: Sir, before I make any observations on the particular Motion which has been brought forward by the hon. Member for Liskeard, I wish, in order that the current of those observations may not be interrupted, and that I may not omit to do justice to those whose names I am about to introduce—I wish in the first place, to make one or two remarks which have a bearing on the character and conduct of individuals. Sir, I must express my deep regret that, in the course of this debate, reflections have been made on the character of the hon. Gentleman who fills the situation of Under Secretary in the Colonial Office. That regret would be increased if it had not been for the honourable and ample testimony to his merits which was borne by a right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere), perfectly capable of appreciating those merits, from his having served in the same department with Mr. Stephen. Mr. Stephen has the honour of being closely connected by birth with two men who have left names which will long be memorable in the annals of this country. He is the son of a gentleman of great distinction, and he is the nephew of Mr. Wilberforce. It seems, however, as if that illustrious connexion operated, not as an advantage, but as a prejudice against him. Now I have had but little personal communication with Mr. Stephen, but I believe that a situation in a public office was never occupied by a man of higher integrity, of more disinterested views—of greater assiduity—of more profound knowledge—and of more distinguished acquirements than Mr. Stephen. [Mr.  Roebuck: 992 993 994 995 996 animus 997 "In my despatch of the 13th instant, I adverted to the relations between Her Majesty's Government and the New Zealand Company. An early settlement of the pending question respecting the Company's claim to certain lands is of paramount importance towards an amicable adjustment of the affairs of the Colony; and it is far more necessary to take effectual steps for bringing that question to a final, and, if possible, a satisfactory conclusion, than to discuss questions of strict right, or to carry on an unprofitable controversy." "I can only repeat the instructions which I have already given to Captain Fitzroy, to endeavour, by amicable co-operation with Colonel Wakefield, to remove obstacles arising from unsatisfied native claims, and to discourage, as far as lies in your power, any exorbitant or extortionate demands on the Company on this head." 998 C. Buller: 999 "There is another subject to which your attention will probably be directed, namely, that of a representative government in New Zealand. By a representative government, I mean the constitution of a legislative assembly with general power of legislation. I should be very glad if I could think it practicable in the present condition of the Colony to adopt this course: but the objections appear to me insuperable." "I should not object to extend the authority of these local bodies over a considerable district of the surrounding country." 1000 Aglionby: 1001 1002 1003 Aglionby: 1004 "The natives of New Zealand are a numerous and inoffensive people, whose title to the soil and sovereignty of New Zealand is indisputable." 1005 "We acknowledge New Zealand as a sovereign and independent State. The Queen disclaims for Herself and for her subjects any pretensions to seize on the islands of New Zealand, or to govern them as part of the dominions of Great Britain, unless a free and intelligent consent of the natives, expressed according to their usages, should be first obtained." "All dealing with the aborigines for their land must be conducted upon the same principle of sincerity, of justice, and of good faith as must govern your transactions with them for the recognition of Her Majesty's sovereignty in the island." "It will be your duty to obtain, by fair and equitable contracts, the cession to the Crown of such lands as may be necessarily required for the occupation of the settlers." "To the natives or their chiefs much of the land of the country is of no actual use, and in their hands it possesses scarcely any exchangeable value." 1006 "On account of acquiring sovereignty by cession, Her Majesty the Queen of England confirms and grants to the chiefs and tribes of New Zealand, and to their respective families, the full, exclusive, undisturbed possession of their lands, forests, habitations and other property which they may collectively or individually possess, as long as they may wish or desire to retain possession of them." "The native tribes and individual chiefs give to Her Majesty the exclusive right of pre-emption over such land as may be disposed of at such prices as the persons appointed on behalf of the two parties may think fair and reasonable." 1007 1008 1009
 Sir W. Clay  contended, that the sugar refiners ought to be exempted from the operation of the Bill. If the Bill had remained general, he would have supported it with pleasure; but as exceptions had been made, he thought the sugar refiners had a right to be exempted also.
 Viscount Ingestre  would not have risen to take a part in this debate had be not been at the head of the deputation which waited upon the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government at the close of the last debate. Those in that House who were well-wishers of the Government, and yet who did not approve of the policy hitherto adopted in New Zealand, waited upon the right hon. Baronet, and explained to him the painful position in which they felt themselves. They stated that there had been ample discussion in that House; that there had been, generally speaking, an absence of all party feeling, and that after that debate, they thought it would be advisable that everything which had passed should be sunk in oblivion. They were met in the most frank and cordial spirit by the right hon. Gentleman, who at once put them into communication with the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies; and he also met them in the same spirit, evincing an anxious wish to bring matters to an amicable termination. The deputation urged upon the noble Lord five points in behalf of the New Zealand Company. The first was, an immediate grant of its lands to the Company. To that the noble Lord answered that he was anxious to do so as far as he could, but that he could not give what the Government had not the power to give. After some discussion, they would perceive from the Minutes, page 5, that "with regard to the above settlements and also to Teranaka, Manawatu, and Wanganni, Lord Stanley communicated to the deputation the precise instructions which he proposed to send to Governor Grey by the next mail of the 7th of July." As to the charge which had been made against the noble Lord relative to these instructions, he entirely
 985 986
On the Motion of  the Earl of Lincoln , the Coal Trade (Port of London) Bill was read a third time.
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  maintained that the allowance of the drawback would not present any difficulty that could not easily be surmounted.
 The Earl of Lincoln  resisted the clause, on the principle that the creditors of the coal-duty fund would suffer materially by permitting the drawback, and that it would be a breach of faith to them to do so without their concurrence. If the hon. Member
 1040
 The Earl of Lincoln  opposed the Amendment.
 The Attorney General  was sure the House must feel greatly indebted to his hon. and learned Friend for the valuable suggestions which he had thrown out. As
 1068 T. Wilde: "That it shall be lawful for Her Majesty's High Court of Admiralty, and any Court of Vice-Admiralty, within Her Majesty's domin-
 1069 "In like manner, and under the like rules and regulations as are contained in any Act of Parliament now in force, in relation to the suppression of the Slave Trade by British owned ships, as fully, to all intents and purposes, as if such Acts were re-enacted in this Act, as to such vessels, and to such High Court of Admiralty, or Courts of Vice-Admiralty."
 Mr. Scott  moved that the House resolve itself into a Committee this day three months.
 Mr. Forbes Mackenzie  was of opinion that toll-houses ought to have the privilege of supplying refreshments, as had hitherto been the custom, otherwise great injury would be inflicted on the toll trusts.
 Mr. Palmer  expressed his concurrence with the hon. Member for Winchester, as regarded fees on acquittal, but several charges ought not to be looked upon as fees.
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, he had had a Notice on the Books of the House for some weeks past, to move for leave to introduce a measure with reference to the health of towns, founded on the Report of the Commission appointed two years ago, which Report was laid on the Table in February last. He had been most anxious to give a general outline of the measure; but at this late hour of the night, and at this advanced period of the Session, he thought it would be better to ask leave to introduce the Bill without any comment. Had time allowed, he would have taken the opportunity, on introducing the Bill, of giving an ample statement of its details. Such a statement would, however, occupy considerable time; and if he were to postpone the Bill to a future day he could not expect, at this period of the Session, to gain the attention of the House to the dry details of a measure of this description. He would, therefore, merely move that the Bill be read a first time and printed, in order that it might be considered during the recess, and brought forward at an early period of the next Session. He hoped the public would examine the provisions of the Bill, and that its details would be fully canvassed. He trusted also that hon. Members of that House who represented large constituencies would devote some attention to the measure, and make such suggestions to the Government as they might deem advisable. The noble Lord then moved for leave to bring in a Bill "for the improvement of the sewerage and drainage of towns and populous districts, and for making provision for an ample supply of water, and for otherwise promoting the health and convenience of the inhabitants."
 Lord J. Manners  was in favour of going into the Committee, in order to make the Bill as unobjectionable and useful as possible.
 Mr. Hawes  was anxious to know whether the Government had any objection to produce the instructions given to Mr. Ellis. The right hon. Gentleman was justified in proposing this Bill; but it was in consequence of the failure of the negotiations it became necessary. It was important to know, then, what the instructions were which led to the first rupture. Those who were better informed than he was, anticipated a still greater alienation of the Brazilian Government, in consequence of the present proposal. Parliament had, therefore, a right to know the origin of the evil.
 Mr. B. Escott  said, that all that was sought by this Bill was to prevent an accused party from being put to the necessity of buying the right of pleading, and the right of trial, by the payment of exorbitant fees. He believed that the law, as it at present stood, was sufficient to protect parties accused, if they were only aware of their right. But it was the practice in many quarters to refuse the plea of not guilty to an individual charged with a misdemeanor, unless he paid the fee demanded, and to send him back again and bring him up at a subsequent Sessions, until at last the fee was extorted, or the individual was allowed to take his trial because he was utterly unable to pay. In thirty-two counties of England and Wales this practice had already been abolished, and it appeared that it was only in twenty counties that it was still permitted to exist. He wanted that to be declared by the House to be the law, and that, throughout the whole country, the same practice should be carried into operation, as was already carried out in the majority of the counties. They never could get justice done in this matter until they decided that no payment was to be demanded from any person charged with a crime, but the penalty which the court which tried him had a right to impose as a punishment for the offence, or as damages to the party aggrieved. Why, he would ask, should this Bill be opposed? It was simply a measure of common justice to a person charged with crime. Money was at the root of much of the opposition which this Bill met with in the country. Under the present system, the fees formed a convenient mode, except to the party that
 1076
 Mr. B. Escott  agreed to the proposition of the Home Secretary.
 Mr. Darby  was disposed to get rid of the Bill altogether, rather than include in it all the provisions it now contained. All the costs allowed by 7 and 8 George IV. were injudiciously abolished by this measure. He moved that the House should resolve itself into a Committee on this day three months.
 Mr. Muntz  said, that under the circumstances, he would not press his objection at the present stage of the Bill, although he still objected to its being hurried through the House. He felt after what had been stated by the hon. and learned Member for Worcester, that the attempt to act in such a manner would lead us into such a contest with one nation that it would produce a general war.
 Mr. Muntz  suggested that they should report progress after the statement of the learned and hon. Member for Worcester, in which he so ably showed the difficulties which would attend this measure.
 Mr. Muntz  thought it extremely absurd that the duty should not be imposed on the continental consumer, and yet impose it on the consumer at home.
 Dr. Bowring  agreed with the hon. Member for Winchester, inasmuch as no fees ought to be charged either upon conviction or acquittal.
 Mr. Hume  then moved, that the clause imposing the 1 d.
 Mr. Hume  seconded the Motion with pleasure. Coals that were unloaded in the Port and transmitted to the eastward of London, were allowed a drawback on the duty, and all they wanted was to put the inhabitants of the west end on the same footing as those at the east, and being such, he did not think the Government could offer any opposition to it. In his opinion, it was of the greatest importance to give all possible facility to the coal consumption, which trade was the great nursery of British seamen, and every restriction that was removed from the trade would tend greatly to encourage it. The Government had admitted the necessity for the removal of all possible restrictions from that trade, and he hoped that when the Government saw the great danger that trade was in of entire annihilation from the competition of railways, the Government would see the necessity of conceding this slight boon.
 Mr. Forster  supported the second reading of the clause. He thought that every encouragement should be given to the extension of our coal trade by sea, instead of hampering it by a continued increase of duties.
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  defended the Bill. It had been fully discussed in the other House, and it had received the sanction and support of the principal Scotch authorities.
 Mr. M. Gibson  did not believe that they would carry out the objects of the Bill by means of it; he therefore trusted that his hon. Friend would persist in his opposition to its progress then. The whole power of the Bill was involved in the 3rd Clause, and this was open to the most serious objections. Because they were then in July or August, he did not see why they should not do their business properly. If they could not do so, let the right hon. Gentleman prorogue Parliament, but do not force measures through the House in July, without that consideration which they would have received in March.
 Mr. Milner Gibson , feeling that this was a measure in the nature of a Penal Act against a friendly Power, and that it involved considerations of the greatest importance, bearing upon the peace and safety of Her Majesty's subjects in the Brazils and other parts of the world, had felt it his duty, before he should consent to the House going into Committee, to request the right hon. Gentleman (Sir Robert Peel) to supply the House with such information relating to the subject as he had in his power, in order to justify them in giving, as they were called upon to do, their assent to this Bill. The correspondence between Her Majesty's Government and
 1044 1045 1046 1047 1048 l. l. 1049 1050
 Mr. Gibson  said, that in 1841, when the negotiations were pending, they were brought to a sudden termination by the passing of the Resolution of the noble Member for Liverpool, which displaced the late Government. The House had a right to know what were the instructions which led to the alienation of Brazil. The right hon. Gentleman asked the House to put confidence in him. He did place confidence in the right hon. Gentleman, but not so far as to consent to legislate in the dark.
 Mr. Gibson  wished to explain. What he meant to have said, and which seemed to be understood, was, that the Executive in Brazil having declared traffic in slaves piracy, but there being no law there to that effect, it was questionable whether we could carry into effect in English courts such a law against Brazilian subjects.
 Mr. M. Gibson  observed that the right hon. Baronet had stated that it was not intended to provide against the persons of Brazilian' subjects who were taken while engaged in the Slave Trade; but Lord Aberdeen, in his despatch just laid on the Table, stated that under the Treaty he could deal with Brazilian subjects engaged in the Slave Trade as pirates. This was very different from the statement of the right hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Wakley  hoped the present discussion would be a lesson to the House how they again imposed taxes upon the necessaries of life on a promise that they should soon be got rid of again. Fuel was as great a necessary of life as food, and the increase in the price of that article, after leaving the hands of the wholesale dealer, and before it reached the cellars of the poorer classes, was not to be believed.
 Sir G. Clerk  could not consent to the introduction of the clause. Although he was perfectly aware that some decrease had taken place in the Greenland, South Sea, and coasting trades in the last few years, still the prosperity of the general trade had increased so much that he was sure there was not the slightest diminution in the amount of tonnage, or in the number of seamen employed during the past year. If they admitted the principle of allowing the drawback on coals carried to Staines, it would be necessary to allow it also on coals carried by canal, and they had no legal means of preventing those coals from being afterwards carried back into the city boundaries.
 Sir G. Cockburn  said, there was a clear distinction between the two cases cited. The promotion of one was for an act of extreme valour, which, if it had been imitated, the disasters which had taken place might not have occurred. The
 1065
 Captain Pechell  said, he hoped the Government would not be unmindful of the officers who had done such important services in the Slave Trade. Lieutenant Wilson, of the  Wasp,
 Captain Pechell  said, that under this Bill they proposed to deal with captured Brazilian slave ships in a different manner before the Admiralty Courts than before the Court of Mixed Commission. He doubted whether they could do this under the Treaty. In this Bill they took the power of destroying ships so taken, whereas under the old Treaty they were sold entire, which made a great difference to the captors. He believed that they had not legal authority to break up these ships. This country never had a power under the Convention to detain a Brazilian ship equipped for the Slave Trade. He wished to know whether it was now intended to detain Brazilian vessels equipped for the Slave Trade in the same way as they did ships under the Spanish Treaty?
 Sir James Duke  moved the introduction of the following clause:—
 "Be it enacted, That, from and after the 31st day of December next, there shall be allowed upon the exportation from the Port of London, westward of the. City boundary on the River Thames at Staines, of coals exceeding in quantity in one barge, lighter, or other vessel, twenty tons, which shall not have been landed, a Drawback of the full amount of all the Rates or Duties which shall have been paid in respect of such Coals, subject however to such rules and regulations as may from time to time be made by the Mayor, Aldermen, and Commons of the City of London, in Common Council assembled, to prevent fraud in respect of such Drawback, such rules and regulations to be approved of by the Committee of Her Majesty's Privy Council for managing the Affairs of Trade; and if the master of any vessel, or any coal weigher, shall, in any certificate or otherwise, state any circumstance which is not true, for the purpose of enabling the owner of such Coals or his agent, to obtain any such Drawback as aforesaid, or if any lighterman or other person employed to carry such Coals to their destination westward of the City boundary on the River Thames at Staines, shall not deliver the whole quantity of such Coals at some place to the westward of the said boundary, every such master or coal weigher, lighterman, or other person, so offending, shall for every such offence forfeit and pay any sum not exceeding one hundred pounds." 1039
On the Motion of  Sir James Graham , that the Stock in Trade Bill be read a second time,
 Sir J. Graham  agreed with the hon. Baronet that the subject was one of very considerable difficulty, and one of deep interest to that respectable class of men to whom he had more particularly alluded. The claim of the clergy to exemption from rating was founded upon two grounds, and there had been two different decisions upon the question in courts of law. The first case was that of "The King  v. 1043
 Sir J. Graham  said, that his hon. and learned Friend referred to the majority by which the second reading of the Bill was carried. He had voted with that majority; but so voted in order that the Bill might go into Committee, without pledging himself to its support in its present shape. His hon. and learned Friend went into Committee, resolved to maintain the Bill in its present form, including exemption from fees on conviction as well as on acquittal. He was opposed to all useless legislation, and his hon. and learned Friend had stated that the exaction of the fees was at present illegal. He doubted the soundness of this law, especially as regarded persons charged with misdemeanors out on bail; these were obliged to pay fees, and, so far, he was willing to amend the law. To that limited extent he was prepared to go, but not as far as the Bill went. In his view, every person convicted ought to be compelled to pay at least part of the expenses.
 Sir J. Graham  gave notice that he would to morrow (this day) move for leave to bring in a Bill to abolish fees on plead-
 1077
 Sir R. Inglis  presented two petitions against the Bill; one from the deanery of Exeter, and the other from the clergy of Sussex. The hon. Baronet then proceeded to state, that the title of the Bill conveyed
 1042
 Sir R. Peel : We have made representations to Spain upon the subject, insisting upon the right of our Consuls and Commissioners to be heard.
 Sir R. Peel  said: I will, as shortly as I can, state to the House the objects of the Bill which has been sent down by the House of Lords, and which I now move shall be considered in a Committee of this House. The international engagements between Brazil and this country in respect of the Slave Trade rest on a Convention concluded between the two countries in 1826. By the First Article of that Convention, it was provided that it should not, from a time therein named, be lawful for a subject of the empire of Brazil to be concerned in carrying on the African Slave Trade under any pretext or in any manner whatever, and that the carrying on of such trade after that period by any person or subject of His Imperial Majesty should be deemed and treated as piracy. There was, therefore, an international engagement between this country and Brazil, that from a certain time the subjects of the Brazilian empire, engaged on any pretext or in any manner in carrying on the Slave Trade, should be guilty of the offence of piracy. The Brazilian subject was not merely by the municipal laws of his own country liable to the penalty for piracy; but there was a solemn engagement entered into between the Brazilian Government and this country by which the offence was made piracy. Shortly after that Convention there was another entered into by the Brazils, adopted from one that was existing between Portugal and this country, concluded in 1817, which had for its object the determining, by mutual arrangement between the two countries, in what mode effect should be given to that engagement. A mutual Right of Search was given in the case of Brazilian ships
 1051 status 1052 bondâ fide 1053 1054 1055 casus belli. casus belli casus belli, casus fœderis. 1056 pro formâ 1057
 Sir R. Peel  replied, that the equipment was admitted as a proof of a ship being engaged in the Slave Trade.
 Sir Robert Peel  stated, that the Convention enabled them to deal with both persons and property engaged in the Slave Trade; but for the last thirty years, they had not carried the Convention into effect against persons. Practically the treatment under the Treaty was not the same between the two countries, as there were no British vessels engaged in the Slave Trade; but many Brazilian vessels had been and were now engaged in it; but in no case had a Brazilian subject been proceeded with for piracy for being taken in a slave ship, although many Brazilian vessels had been confiscated for having been so employed. All that they asked for, was sufficient powers to suppress the Slave Trade, in conformity with the stipulations of the Treaty. Although an abstract right existed as to dealing with persons engaged in the Slave Trade, there would be the same abstinence as for the last thirty years from exercising the extreme right; and although they might, under the Treaty, deal with Brazilian subjects engaged in the Slave Trade as pirates, yet they, under
 1073
 Sir R. Peel  was satisfied, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had no other object in view than the promotion of the public interest, in the suggestions which he had just made. The hon. and learned Gentleman's objections were mainly directed to the latter part of the clause. He was bound to say that the preparation of this Bill was committed to the most able hands; and if he mentioned the names of those gentlemen it would be sufficient to make the Committee assured that it had received the most mature consideration. There were two subjects to be considered in this matter—the situation in which the Brazilian persons engaged in the Slave Trade would be placed by the clause, and the situation of Brazilian slave vessels captured. The Bill did not authorize more to be done against Brazilian persons or Brazilian property so engaged, than could be done under the present Convention. Under the Article of the Treaty of 1826, it was, perhaps, doubtful whether authority was not given to each Power to judge as to whether any case of slave trading was piracy or not. Since the Treaty was signed in 1826, which was subsidiary to that with Portugal in 1817, this country had only dealt with property, and not with persons engaged in the Slave Trade. The object of this measure was also only to deal with property. He admitted that it would be difficult to deal with Brazilian subjects engaged in the Slave Trade as pirates; for by their own municipal law it was not piracy; and even if it were, the punishment in the two countries for that crime was not similar. British subjects for that offence were liable to transportation for life; but this was not the case with Brazilian subjects. With respect to the engagement with the Brazils, in the First Article of the Convention there were two provisions, the one having respect to the period of the abolition of the Slave Trade, and the other to its absolute abolition. The Article was—
 "At the expiration of three years, to be reckoned from the exchange of the ratifications of the present Treaty, it shall not be lawful for the subjects of the Emperor of the Brazils to be concerned in the carrying on of the African Slave Trade, under any pretext, or in any manner whatever, and the carrying on of such trade after that period, by any person, subject of His Imperial Majesty, shall be deemed and treated as piracy." 1072
 Sir R. Peel  said, there really must be a limit to the recommendations of promotions in that House. He had undertaken that in the case of the very gallant conduct of Mr. Robertson, a promotion should take place. But he should recommend that, as a rule, the question of promotion should be left to the decision of the Crown.
 Sir Robert Peel  was understood to say, that if the noble Lord could point out the way in which the Returns could be made up, he would request Mr. Mandeville (as we understood) to use every exertion to supply the information. He could assure the noble Lord that he hoped it would be forthcoming, and he thought that Mr. Mandeville, whose diligence and ability the noble Lord was well acquainted with, would be able to satisfy him that it was not from inadvertency or negligence that the delay in the production of the Returns had arisen.
 Sir R. Peel  said, the House had always that degree of confidence in the Minister, as not to press for the production of documents which he pledged himself could not be given without detriment to the public service. He did not think these instructions had any immediate bearing on the present policy of this country, and he assured the hon. Gentleman their production would not increase the prospect of a successful termination of the negotiations for a commercial Treaty. If the hon. Member looked to the Papers before the House, he would see, that long before the mission of Mr. Ellis, every effort was exhausted to bring about an amicable negotiation on the subject of the Right of Search. So far back as 1835, an application with this view was refused. In 1840, a new proposition was made, but with a similar result. In 1841, also, when the Slave Trade was extensively carried on, Brazil refused to take any steps in conjunction with this country for putting a stop to it.
 Sir R. Peel  was willing to recommit the Bill if necessary, provided it was allowed to go through its present state. The Bill could not have been brought in at an earlier period of the Session, in consequence of the requisite information not having been obtained from the Brazils, and it was of
 1074
 Sir Robert Peel  would assure the hon. Member that he would take no unfair advantage, if they went on with the Bill then. If it was necessary, he would introduce the proposed alterations in the third reading.
 Sir Thomas Wilde  said, it must be borne in mind that this clause subjected those who belonged to another State to trial by our law. Now, in the first place it must be observed that the mere agreement between, the Brazils and this country to pass a Treaty declaring the Slave Trade piracy, could not be brought into operation against the subjects of the Brazils, unless a law was passed there for the purpose of giving it effect, no more than the mere declaration of the Minister could apply to our subjects, unless the Legislature carried it into operation by a special Act. When that Treaty was made, a particular jurisdiction, called the Mixed Commission, was created, to try the question as to the forfeiture of vessels acting in contravention of it; and the British Legislature
 1067 "Shall be tried by the like rules and regulations as are contained in any Act of Parliament now in force in relation to the suppression of the Slave Trade by British owned ships?"
 Sir T. Wilde  wished shortly to explain. Suppose that this country made a Treaty with the Executive Government of a foreign nation, and in which there was an Article declaring that to be piracy which was not so by the law of nations—for some civilized nations had regarded the Slave Trade as legitimate commerce — suppose that Executive Government had no powers from its Legislature to punish such act as
 1070 1071
 Mr. Hutt  believed that if this Bill were passed its effect would be, in the course of two years, to destroy all commercial intercourse between this country and the Brazils. Although this measure might, to some extent, prevent the Brazilian flag from affording protection to the Slave Trade, he believed hon. Gentlemen were mistaken if they supposed it would have the effect of preventing that trade from being carried on to the same extent as at present. His conviction was, that this measure would not diminish the Slave Trade; and in a fruitless attempt to effect that object the Government were sacrificing some of the best interests of this country, and bringing us to the very verge of war, or, at least, placing us in circumstances which it would be the highest wisdom to avoid. He therefore felt it his duty to oppose this Bill.
 Viscount Palmerston : As I cannot concur in the views of many hon. Gentlemen near me, I am quite prepared to give Government my support as to the Bill now under the consideration of the House; indeed, I have no other course to pursue, having, as the right hon. Baronet has reminded me, been the first to suggest that this course should be pursued. Let us see how we stand. There exists a Treaty, concluded in 1826. Now, the question for the House to consider is, whether that Treaty is to be allowed to remain a dead letter; and whether all that was to be accomplished under it, and by it, is to be permitted to remain unfulfilled? or whether this House is to take such measures as it can, in order to carry it into practical execution? Parliament has repeatedly addressed the Executive since the year 1814, urging the Crown to conclude Treaties with Foreign Powers—pointing out the object of these Treaties to be the suppression of the Slave Trade—and, in some cases, suggesting the means by which they were to accomplish the purposes in view. Now, it would be utterly disgraceful to the country if Treaties so concluded were allowed to be violated by the bad faith of the Governments with whom they were contracted. I am sorry, Sir, to say, that it is impossible to state in exaggerated terms the just accusation against the Brazils, of bad faith as to the Conventions agreed to by it, respecting the Slave Trade. It is true, that the Government of which I was a Member did, during the ten years we were in office, urge, year after year, by every possible argument, the Government of the Brazils to
 1059 1060 1061 Anti-Slavery Reporter, 1062
 Viscount Palmerston : I am only putting the right hon. Baronet in mind of the matter, as, amid the multiplicity of affairs to be attended to by a Government, it might be left to pass unnoticed. I know that the Governor of Surinam did not go so far as the Governor of Cuba. He took no notice of the representations of our agents, and in the whole year 1844 no answer has been received from him to any of their applications. I am sure, then, that the right hon. Baronet will feel that our officers are, both in Cuba and Surinam, in a position quite inconsistent with due respect for the Government which they represent. There is another point I wish to mention, relative to those negroes conveyed into Surinam. Those negroes have been so carried away against the law of England. The consequence was that they became forfeited to the Crown, and the result of that forfeiture was their freedom. Such being the case, then, I say that no Foreign Power can have a right to retain British subjects in a state of slavery, unless they have some legal right on which to ground that act of theirs. But in this case, the subjects of Spain and of Holland, who purchased those slaves, purchased them illegally; and I do hold that these British subjects are entitled to be rescued from the state of bondage in which they are now held, by the interference of the British Government. I hope the subject may receive the fullest and most liberal consideration of the Law Officers of the Crown, and if they feel that the Dutch and Spanish Governments have not an unquestionable right to retain these negroes in bondage, that Her Majesty's Government will feel that, not under any particular law, but under the general international rights of countries, they will be enabled to demand that these British subjects shall be set at liberty. Then there are the Emancipados. No progress has been made in giving them that freedom which by Treaty, and the decree of the Mixed Commission, they are entitled to. When General Valdez was in Cuba, from 1,200
 1063 1064
 Viscount Palmerston : The memory of my hon. Friend must be shorter than I could have supposed, for the substance of the instructions to Mr. Ellis were stated at the time. I think, what was stated was, that it was intended to propose to the Brazils, some law which, by internal operation, should modify the condition of slavery. There was proposed by Mr. Ellis as a  sine qua non, sine qua non,
 The Attorney General  opposed the Motion.
 Mr. Bouverie  moved, that the Report of the Committee on the Death by Accidents Compensation Bill be brought up.
 Mr. A. Smith  assured the House that his own experience amply verified the statements that had been made by the hon. Member for Montrose. The inconveniences that had been felt in consequence of the existing arrangements for changing the light coin were of no trifling character. He sincerely hoped that Government
 1112
 Mr. Pringle  said, the statements of his hon. Friend, the Member for Renfrewshire were entirely  ex parte. ex parte
 Mr. Hawes  held in his hand a pamphlet containing statements of the most painful and humiliating character, in reference to the refusal of sites; but it did not appear that any of the proprietors who refused sites assigned the reason given by the right hon. Baronet. On the
 1097
 Mr. C. Buller  said, he understood the hon. Gentleman to have quoted the words of the oath as a justification of the course taken by the Government. It was quite clear that a number of gentlemen connected with the civil service in Ceylon had been in the habit of investing money in estates. He would not go the length of saying that no public officer in a Colony like Ceylon should hold land, though he thought that in a new Colony, where the Government possessed all the unsold property, it would open the way to jobbing if they were allowed to make investments in landed property. In an old Colony, however, the case was different, as, if public officers were induced to invest their savings in land, they would acquire an increased interest in the prosperity of the Colony. There was, however, a difficulty in deciding where the line between the two classes should be drawn. But it was clear that in Ceylon all the civil officers had, with the sanction of the Government, been engaged in investing any money they might have in the purchase of land; and he much questioned the justice of the peremptory order which was issued, compelling those men, who were to be regarded as innocent, to sell their property within a given time, and whether that time was fixed at two years or at six months, he thought in either case it was a great hardship to men who for the last ten or twenty years embarked their fortunes in this kind of property with the connivance and countenance of the Government. He had the pleasure of knowing for many years the present Governor of Ceylon — Sir Colin Campbell, and a more amiable and kind-hearted man did not exist, and he was sure he would be quite incapable of using any hardship or severity towards the civil officers of his own accord. The remedy might, he was sure, have been applied without the use of the strong terms that had been applied in this case. The hon. Gentleman seemed inclined to repair the mischief by showing that the application of censure was of a very partial nature.
 1130
 M. Hindley  expressed his satisfaction at the separation that had taken place between the Free Church and the Established Church in Scotland. He thought that the results of that separation showed the power of the voluntary principle. He was glad to see the extension of the voluntary principle as well as its complete success, and he wished to see that principle extend to all parts of the United Kingdom. He regretted that some individuals had interfered in an unsatisfactory manner with respect to the Free Church. He was happy to say, that even in Westminster, schools in connexion with the voluntary principle were in a flourishing condition, and gave an excellent education to a large number of children. He was anxious to see the extension of the voluntary principle.
 Mr. Newdegate  also presented petitions from farmers in Warwickshire, to the same effect as those presented by Mr. Spooner.
 Mr. Newdegate  said, that he was anxious to make a few remarks upon the highly important question now brought before the House; but must first of all clear himself and his hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham from being held bound by the suggestion for an alteration of the currency, made by Mr. Alison at the conclusion of his pamphlet, as had
 1113 1114 1115 1116
 The Lord Advocate  said, the Report of the Commissioners inclined towards the abolition of these exclusive privileges; and as great weight was due to their opinion, it had made a strong impression on his
 1089
 Mr. Cardwell  thought it his duty to vindicate the character of Dr. M'Pherson, the principal landed proprietor on the Island of Eigg, from the charge of religious intolerance; such feelings were wholly alien from his character. There were circumstances which rendered him unwilling to grant a site, but the unwillingness did not arise from religious intolerance.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, it was not his intention to justify the publication of that minute; it was not published by Lord Stanley's directions, and the terms of the minute did not agree with the terms of the despatch, the terms of which were not so general as those of the minute. The Papers would be produced, and it would be at once seen that this was the case. The despatch, indeed, alluded to the reports of the listlessness with which the civil servants discharged their functions, and that they were contented with the bare performance of the duties exacted of them, and of their want of zeal; but it was expressly said that these observations applied to the junior members of the civil service, and not to the whole civil service; and the causes were set out much in the same words as in the minute. Though he was far from pressing hardly against the servants, reports had been received from Sir Colin Campbell and from his predecessors which contained frequent complaints against the junior servants and the way they discharged their duties. It would be difficult to produce those reports; they were given in confidence, and mentioned the names of individuals, which, if given, would increase rather than allay any irritation; but they mentioned individuals and parties going through their services and showing their negligence, especially in the acquisition of the native language. Hon. Gentlemen connected with India would scarcely believe that so many had gone on without having acquired what was an indispensable
 1127 1128
 Mr. Hope  said, it should be borne in mind that the clergy of the Established Church were not so much under the power of the Government as might be supposed.
 Mr. Hope  said, he would be sorry to charge these gentlemen with any intentional departure from their oaths, and he did not think his words would bear that construction.
 Mr. Muntz  said, that as he had not been in the House during the speech of his hon. Colleague, he could only form an opinion of it from the comments he had heard made upon it by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government; but if it advocated the payment of bank
 1117 1118 1119 l. l. l. l. l., l., l., s., l. 1120
 Mr. Aglionby  said, he thought the hardship of the case had been aggravated by the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies. These gentlemen ought not to be under the imputation of having broken their oaths, for having merely cultivated their private estates, under the sanction of the Government.
 1129
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  declared himself to be totally unprepared to enter upon the whole question of currency as entered upon by the hon. Member, who had gone back to the year 1798, and had brought his ideas to bear upon all the events that had happened in the financial world from that period down to the present day. He did not at all suppose that the hon. Member could think it necessary to call upon the House to visit the present Government with its censure for measures which they had taken two years ago—measures which then met with the general approbation of the House, who appeared to be perfectly satisfied with the explanation then given by the Government. He should now confine his observations merely to the Motion before the House, and endeavour to state the difficulties which would attend the carrying out of the proposition of the hon. Member for Montrose. The hon. Member said that the Government had made no preparation for their measure of 1842 and 1843; but the hon. Member must be aware that since the year 1816 the public had been made aware of the constant depreciation of the gold currency that was going on from year to year by wear and tear. He must be aware that at one time a memorial had been presented to the Government, which was signed by every banker in the metropolis, calling upon them to apply some remedy to this evil; for that if it were not remedied it would lead to still greater evils. The condition of this country was then favourable to a change; and when the hon. Member said that there was no silver coin at the time in the country to meet the difficulty, he begged to remind him that but a few weeks before that general measure of the Government
 1109 1110 d.
 Mr. Tufnell  called the attention of the House to the regulations lately issued, with regard to the compulsory disposal of lands held in the Island of Ceylon, and purchased from the Governor of that Colony by the members of the civil service, and the reflections that have been cast upon their character as public servants in the Governor's minute, dated the 14th day of February, 1845. The circumstances of this case peculiarly called for the attention of the House, It was not surprising, when a former Governor of Ceylon, a few years ago, held out great inducement to the cultivation of coffee in that Colony, that the civil servants were induced to invest their savings in the cultivation of land. This, so far from meeting with the censure of that Governor, met with his warmest approbation, as well as that of succeeding Governors, up to nearly the present time. To such an extent had this been carried, that in 1842, the last year he had returns on the subject, the quantity of land under cultivation for coffee, was not less than 48,500 acres; and by far the greater portion of this was held by the civil servants. Those parties were under contract to hold the land for a certain period; and some of them were prevented disposing of it under the stipulations by which they held it. The Colonial Government, under instructions from home, however, had given orders that they should all part with this land within a limited period, or cease to belong to the civil service in the Colony. He might be told, that by holding land for cultivation they had been guilty of a violation of their oaths; but it should be recollected that the Governor and the highest civil servants of the Colony, had long been in the habit of purchasing and taking land for cultivation. These parties, therefore, were not aware that they were
 1121 l.; l. l., Gazette. "His Lordship has directed, that it be distinctly understood that no civil servant will be permitted to engage in any agricultural or commercial pursuits for the sake of profit; and that all who may have done so must, within a reasonable time, dispose of their property, or retire from the public service; and that this rule be fully and promptly earned into effect; the penalty of any evasion of the  boná fide 1122 Ceylon Calender "Those among us who are connected with agricultural pursuits, may now be permitted to solicit your Lordship's serious reconsideration of the order given with respect to the disposal of our landed property. We do not presume for one moment to question the absolute right of Her Majesty's Government, to make it a condition of employment, that a civil servant shall not be engaged in agricultural or commercial pursuits; but we venture to urge upon your Lordship the extreme hardship of compelling those who have already embarked in them, to extricate themselves altogether within so very limited a period. We have now to plead that Her Majesty's Government, in the first instance, encouraged agricultural undertakings by the civil servants; that it has been throughout aware that they were so engaged; and that it has never, until now, intimated any sort of disapproval of their so doing: and that the Governors of the Colony have, in more that one instance, been
 1123 "His Lordship has observed that, in all the
 1124 Gazette? "His Lordship is disposed to attribute this unsatisfactory condition of the service principally to the paralysing effect of a constant attention to seniority in promotions, the consequent absence of any hope of advancement by reason of superior merit, and to the smallness of the salaries (in the absence of any provision for pension), which has induced a great proportion of the civil servants to look to agricultural pursuits as a means of improving their income." "The minutes in question have already been republished by the local newspapers, they have been transferred to the papers of India, will be generally canvassed on the Continent, and can only be productive of a very low opinion of the civil servants here. We beg most respectfully, but most distinctly, to impress upon your Lordship, that at this peculiar juncture in the condition of the Colony, nothing is more essential to its ultimate welfare than that those public servants who really endeavour to do their duty should meet with firm and steady support from the Government. It is impossible for any person not thoroughly conversant with local affairs justly to estimate the increasing difficulties and pressure to which those public servants who hold important and responsible office are subjected. At such a time as this the service had no reason to expect, but laments to find, the Government joining in the imputations that have from time to time been cast upon it. Unmerited abuse from interested and frequently misinformed parties we have hitherto borne with indifference; but how far different
 1125 Gazette, "Whatever course expediency might have dictated, we would beg to be allowed to submit to your Lordship whether, as we have no opportunity of defending ourselves, the publication of this censure might not well have been spared us, until, at least, other attempts had been made to work out that reform in the service which the Government required. Even were we to concede the existence of the evils to the extent implied, we might be permitted to refer to the minute itself for the causes of them. The 3rd Clause attributes them distinctly to the injudicious distribution of its patronage by the local Government; and to the parsimonious scale of remuneration allowed to the civil servants by Her Majesty's Government in England. A
 1126
 Mr. Tufnell  replied, and remarked that the clergy of the Established Church, and the bishop who had just gone out there, were allowed to purchase property to any extent.
 Dr. Bowring  said, that every encouragement had been held out by the Government to parties to make purchases of land in Ceylon. There had been no voluntary emigration to that island until it was encouraged by the Government. Considerable sums of money were then invested in land, and when these speculations were entered upon by the civil service there had not been a single word of disapprobation uttered. In fact, the language of the Government all through was the language of encouragement. But, suddenly, these Gentlemen had incurred the displeasure of the Colonial Office, and not only were they divested of their lands, but a sort of opprobrium was attached to them. It appeared that instead of one year, as at first announced, they were now to have two years to dispose of their property; but that would, after all, make very little difference in their case, as they could have no chance of obtaining the full value of it as long as the purchaser knew that the sale was compulsory. The lands might, in a word, be considered as being in the hands of a bailiff, to be sold by a certain time, no matter at what terms. He thought the Government ought to prevent the evil for the time to come, but not to do wrong in correcting that which arose in the time past.
 Dr. Bowring  thought nothing could be more unjust than that Government, after having altered the currency, should require individuals to bear the loss that ensued. He found, by some correspondence which had passed between Sir P. Stuart, the Governor of Malta, and the British Government, that when a depreciation in the currency had occurred in that Colony through the acts of Government, a loss of from 8,000 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  expressed himself highly gratified with the statement of the right hon. Baronet, and hoped that ere long religious rancour and hostility would be entirely done away with in Scotland.
 Mr. Hume  called the attention of the House to the loss to the public by light sovereigns, and that some offices should be appointed by the Government to receive light gold at the intrinsic value, according to the number of grains deficient in the average weight, and not allow the loss of 6 d., d. d., d., l. l. 1100 "An humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, to represent that, on the last occasion, when the light gold coin of the Realm was called in, a considerable loss, attended with much inconvenience to Her Majesty's poorer subjects, occurred, having been in a great degree caused by the neglect of Her Majesty's Ministers, in not making timely preparations for receiving the light gold coin at its intrinsic value at convenient places in the several towns and districts of the United Kingdom, and humbly to request that Her Majesty will be pleased to give directions to guard against similar scenes of loss and trouble for the future."
 Mr. Hume  put the question of which he had given notice, namely, what was the intention of the Government as to the removal of the vexatious and exclusive privileges of trading, and the exercise of crafts enjoyed by the incorporated trades in the burghs of Scotland?
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  rose, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of the House to the petition of the Rev. Patrick Macfarlan, Moderator of the General Assembly of the Free Church of Scotland (presented June 24), complaining of the refusal of sites to congregations of that Church. He stated that the petitioners represented that the General Assembly of the Free Church had the spiritual guidance of one-third of the population of Scotland; that 470 of the clergy of the Church of Scotland had left it for the Free Church, which now had 620 clergy and 800 congregations; that 726,000 l. l. 1091 1092 l. 1093 "I will tell you frankly, dear and venerable brother, that this refusal of sites is, perhaps, the only painful impression which I carry away from Scotland. A foreigner comes into a land as into that of the gospel and liberty; and he sees there, things which are not to be met with under the most despotic Government of the Continent. How can this denial of religious liberty accord with the national character of Scotland?"
 Mr. Borthwick  said, that when so much was stated with respect to the voluntary principle in educating the poor, the exertions of the Established Church ought not to be overlooked with respect to a question of this kind. He had taken a great interest in this subject, and had seen the useful and advantageous education which was given by the Established Church to the poor of this country. He regretted that any observations should have been made respecting the conduct which certain noble Lords had pursued on this subject. He thought, after the public statements that had been made by those individuals, it would be impertinent for him to make any observations on the subject. He was sure, that the defence which had been made by those noble individuals would be found perfectly satisfactory to the public.
 Mr. Sheil  begged to put a question to the Home Secretary, of which he had given him notice. His noble Friend the Member for Arundel had on a former occasion put a question to the same effect; but the answer then given to him by the right hon. Baronet was not considered in Ireland to be as explicit as it should have been: he, therefore, wished to ask the right hon. Baronet whether it were the intention of the Government, early in the next Session, to bring in a Bill to amend the Charitable Bequests Act?
 Mr. Sheil  understood from some of his Scotch Friends that the Seceders in Scotland were rapidly becoming the majority. It was incumbent on the Government to guard against the growth of disaffection among them. The Government should take into consideration whether it was not far wiser to prevent in time the great calamity which was impending over Scotland, and, instead of relying on the discretion, or, he should rather say, the caprice of individual proprietors, to take measures for providing for the religious worship of the majority of the Scottish people, and to attach them to the Slate by honourable bonds. If the  regium donum 1098
 Mr. Spooner  presented petitions from farmers
 1099
 Mr. Spooner  seconded the Motion, and said the hon. Member for Montrose had brought a very important Motion before the House. He had fully made out his case, and had shown that the poor man had been greatly injured by what he had justly styled the neglect of Her Majesty's Government. But there was a large and important class to whom the hon. Member had not alluded, viz., shopkeepers and retail dealers in general. Competition compelled them to receive light coin at its nominal value; but they had no means of disposing of it but in payment of the debts they had incurred in the purchase of goods. Then the loss between intrinsic and nominal value was tested, and fell on them. This could not be avoided; for if the Government were to take in the light coin at its nominal value, it would open extensive doors to fraud; but in addition to this loss, the holders of the light coin were subjected to the risk and expense of transmission to London. That risk and expense the Government ought to bear. A place ought to be appointed in the centre of every important district, where light sovereigns might be exchanged. He hoped that the present Motion would be the means of calling the attention of the Government to the subject. But important as the Motion was, it was only part, and a comparatively small part, of that great and momentous subject—the monetary system of the country. He approached this question with much diffidence; he could not forget what passed last Session, when his right hon. Friend at the head of the Government, holding up a book, denounced its contents as nonsense—denounced also the borough which he (Mr. Spooner) had the honour to represent, as being the only town where two men could be found to write such nonsense. Agreeing with nearly every
 1101 1102 Graham on Corn and Currency." s. 1103 1104 1105 "With confidence I assert that the law which fixes the standard of value at 3 l. s. d., s. s. 1106 1107 "It is often said, that the Bill of 1819 was a great error; but that it has been got over; that prices have become accommodated to the new scale; that the sufferers by it are bankrupt, dead, and buried; and that every thing would be thrown into confusion again if any change were now made. There never was a greater mistake. The 700,750,000 l. l. ultima ratio 1108
 Mr. Spooner  subsequently rose, and said that he had a petition to present from a most respectable individual, Mr. Andrew Spottiswoode, who had signed a petition as Chairman of the Society for the Emancipation of Industry. The members of that Society traced the extreme depression, so much to be deplored among agriculturists in this country, and prominently among them the labourers, mainly to the present state of the national currency. The petitioner prayed that an inquiry might be instituted to ascertain the cause of the distress.
 Mr. W. Williams  denied that the right hon. Gentleman had satisfactorily replied to the hon. Member for Montrose. No one who had not, like himself, been in the constant habit of receiving a most voluminous correspondence on the subject of light sovereigns could conceive the extent to which the labouring classes had suffered by that species of fraud or deterioration. There had been no public notices issued that the postmasters throughout the kingdom had orders to take all light coin at a loss of 3 d.
 Sir J. Graham  said, he was most anxious that the answer should be explicit. It was expedient that it should be so; and he thanked the hon. Gentleman for having given him notice of the question. There were two points as to which he proposed to alter the Bill next Session. The first related to matters affecting the doctrine and discipline of the Roman Catholic Church. By the Act as it now stood, if there was a bequest in favour of a dignitary of the Roman Catholic Church, or of a parish priest, and a dispute arose as to the title of the party claiming it, such a case was now, as the Act stood, referred to the decision of the Commissioners. It appeared, however, that by a canon of the Roman Catholic Church, such a question must be decided by an authority exclusively ecclesiastic. The Government intended to remove that difficulty by making the certificate of the ecclesiastical authority conclusive as to the rights of the parties. The next point as to which the Government proposed to make an alteration, was this:—the monastic orders in Ireland considered themselves injured by one of the provisoes at the end of the 15th Clause. He had stated when he introduced the Bill, that it was not intended, either directly or indirectly, to affect the position of the monastic orders. Whether that was or was not carried out in the Bill, it was the intention of the Government explicitly to declare that the
 1090
 Sir J. Graham  said: The hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has rightly designated this subject as a painful one; and I cannot say that I think the hon. Gentleman at all to blame for calling our attention to it. It is quite clear that it is a subject on which legislation is not possible—one with which public opinion is alone competent to deal. The hon. Gentleman has mentioned certain facts with reference to the parishes of St. Margaret and St. John, in this immediate vicinity, showing that there is great spiritual destitution,
 1094 1095 1096
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, I am disappointed at being absent during the first part of the speech of my hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham; but that part of it which I heard, convinced me that my hon. Friend has established another claim on the constituency which he represents. Some portions, however, of his speech do anything but bear out his argument; for while the one seems to be in favour of a convertible issue of paper money, the other is in favour of an inconvertible issue. My hon. Friend, however, proposes one remedy; he studiously avoids informing the House in respect to the practical result of his observations. He did indeed refer to the pamphlet of one whom he terms the
 1111 l. l. l. l.
 Viscount Ebrington  understood that there was a toll levied on the passage of Coolies from India to Ceylon. Some of the planters had presented a memorial on the subject to the Governor, representing this tax as a most impolitic measure. It besides acted as a great hardship on the Coolies themselves, as these poor people were often reduced to the greatest suffering in their efforts to evade it.
 Mr. Williams  said, he thought this Vote excessive in amount. There were in St. Helena forty officers paid by the people of this country, to govern a population of 4,800 persons; and the collection of a revenue of 15,000 l. l.,
 Mr. Collett  wished to ask, whether on the decease of the present Colonial bishops the charge would still be continued?
 Mr. C. Berkeley  objected to the proviso to the clause, that it was not to apply to subscriptions for a plate or prize, because it was legislating for one side only, and because it would, he contended, legalize gambling one way, while it attempted to put a stop to it on the other.
 Mr. Hawes  was glad that the Motion of his hon. Friend had been brought forward, as it had elicited the important declaration of the right hon. Baronet. No grant which the Government could propose would meet with more cordial satisfaction from that House, than an increased grant for the purposes of education. In saying this, he could not but consider the grant of 75,000 l. 1149 l. l.
 Mr. Hawes  said, they were nearly useless. In his opinion, an annual report ought to be made, setting forth the nature and extent of the services which they performed.
 Mr. Hawes  said, he thought this was an immense sum to commence with at these establishments.
 Mr. Hawes  said, the hon. Member for Coventry had received most incorrect information on this subject. He had also made use of language as regarded the Council of which they had a just right to complain. The conduct of the Council by no means laid them open to the charge of jobbing, or of being a clique, or of having "cooked up" their Report. The Council laid their Report upon the Table of the House, but they had not dared even to allude to the fact that they had dismissed Mr. Herbert, nor would the House have been aware of the fact had it not
 1159 l. l.; l.; l.; l.; l. l.; l. 1160
 Mr. C. Buller  said, the population of this Colony consisted of 3,476 persons, and these unhappy people were taxed, for local purposes, to the amount of 9,070 l, l.
 Mr. C. Buller  wished to make some observations on this Vote. The population of the Bahamas was 25,000, and the local revenue was 21,943 l. l. l.
 Mr. C. Buller  said, that this was on a different footing, as the Bermudas were a penal settlement, but considering that the population was only 10,000, and the revenue 15,000 l., l., l.
 Mr. C. Buller  said, that this was about the worst case he knew. The population of this Colony was nearly 50,000; the revenue was 10,500 l.; 1163
 Mr. C. Buller  asked whether there was any truth in the report, that it was the intention of the Government to establish convict Colonies in the northern part of New Holland?
 Mr. C. Buller  said, that the Roman Catholic Church in Canada was richly endowed. The Catholic clergy in Canada were well provided for, and most comfortably situated. The Established Church was also well provided for. However, without wishing to deprive those establishments of their endowments, he should vote with the hon. Member for Coventry.
 Mr. C. Buller  observed, that if so, if they were merely annuities payable to certain individuals, he would not oppose the Vote.
 Mr. C. Buller  said, that his impression was, that if that sum were to be paid by the people of this country, the best thing that could be done with it would be to throw it into the sea at once, for he believed that money never was more scandalously applied. When he held office in Canada, he caused inquiries to be made into the management of these Indian settlements, and he found that there were not three real Indians in the whole of them, in Lower Canada. The people were a kind of half-caste, and were as dissolute, worthless, and idle a population as were to be found anywhere on the face of the globe. The largest item in the Vote was one of 14,157 l. 1168
 Mr. Hindley  objected to it, on the ground that the amount necessary for that department should be procured on the voluntary system.
 Mr. Hindley  said, the Government had made an agreement with purchasers of land in this Colony, by which the money
 1164 l.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, the agreement was that the fund derived from the sale of land should be liable, in the first instance, to meet any expenses necessary for the purposes of the Government; and that, if it was not so required, it should be applied to promote emigration. It was, undoubtedly, the intention of the Government to apply as large a proportion as possible of the money received for the sale of land to the promotion of emigration to South Australia.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, there was no intention of establishing such a settlement at or near Port Essington. He could not say that such an establishment might not be formed in the north of New Holland, but nothing had yet been determined on the subject.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, that the whole of these charges were for the lives of the individuals only.
 Mr. Hope  said, that the sum paid to the Roman Catholic bishops in Canada was the subject of agreement with the Government, and must be continued during their lives.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, that the Bermudas were a great military station, in consequence of their being a penal settlement, and that increased the charge. This relief had always been given to the Colony, for though in some years there was a surplus, in others there was a deficiency.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, if the hon. and learned Gentleman had given notice of the question, he would have been prepared to answer it. There were numerous charges for colonial chaplains, colonial surgeons, and other purposes which were not included in the present estimate.
 Mr. Hope  said, that the Vote had been diminished.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, that the impression was that those charges would cease; but that impression depended only upon statements made in Parliament.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, that the suggestion of the hon. and learned Gentleman had been anticipated. Inquiries were going forward, and he hoped, before next Session, information on the subject would be in the hands of Her Majesty's Government.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said a few words in support of the Vote, the purport of which it was impossible to catch in the gallery.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the expenses of living were very high at these places, and that in consequence of their reported insalubrity it had been found necessary to give increased salaries to induce persons to accept offices there.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, a considerable sum had been expended in this Colony in the erection of public buildings.
 Dr. Bowring  opposed the Vote.
 Dr. Bowring  objected to the difference between the amount of salary paid to the Protestant and Roman Catholic bishops of Newfoundland and Nova Scotia.
 Mr. Brotherton  wished to suggest to the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir R. Peel) that it would be better that, for the remainder of the Session, the House should meet at twelve o'clock, and continue its sitting until the business on the Paper for the day was finished, instead of adjourning for an hour or two, as at present, between the morning and evening sittings.
 Mr. Henley  wished to be informed whether or not it was the intention of the right hon. Baronet to bring in a measure next Session relative to those cases where a magistrate was called on to act singly in a judicial capacity.
 Mr. Hume  expressed the pleasure which he felt at the declaration of the right hon. Baronet on the subject of education. He was glad to find that a subject of such great importance had been brought forward by his hon. Friend. He was happy to hear, from the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, that the cause of education, and the education of the people at large, engaged the best attention of the Government. He was glad to find that the desire of the Government was that all classes should be educated without exclusion. He was glad to see, in the increased grant for education, an increased desire on the part of the Government to promote the education of all classes without exclusion. He was glad to see that their interest in the cause of education
 1148 l.
 Mr. Hume  would advise his hon. Friend not to press his Motion. The fact of the dismissal of a man of so much talent as Mr. Herbert, indicated that there was something wrong in the present system. There must be in the Report, he thought, a suppression of some important facts, and he trusted that Her Majesty's Government would consent to lay additional information on the Table, in order to enable the House to form a correct judgment.
 Mr. Sheil  wished to ask a question respecting the distribution of the patronage over this force. Under the late Government, Colonel M'Gregor had appointed, he believed, two in three of the vacancies in the chief constables.
 Mr. Sheil  wished to ask what was the course now pursued, and whether the recommendation of Colonel M'Gregor was not considered almost conclusive?
 Mr. Sheil  objected to the distinctions made between the salaries paid to the Roman Catholic and the Protestant bishops in the Colonies. In Newfoundland, for instance, the salary of the Roman Catholic bishop was only 75 l.
 Mr. Sheil  observed, that with regard to Lower Canada, there were no episcopal estates there. As yet, too, the Legislative Assembly of Lower Canada was undisturbed by religious dissensions, and he thought it would be very bad policy to introduce such dissension for the sake of so small a sum.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that he only wished to call the attention of the House to the disparity between the payment to the Roman Catholic clergy and to the Protestant clergy. He thought that a distinction of this kind ought not to be made.
 Mr. Wakley  had hoped that one of the Council would have offered his opinion to the House, and was surprised the hon. Member for Lambeth had not done so. No answer had been given to the statement of the hon. Member for Coventry; the hon. Baronet (Sir G. Clerk) had undertaken the task, but the hon. Baronet must feel he had not discharged it to his own satisfaction. He could scarcely have weighed the case duly when he told the House it was a trumpery one. The public money was asked for to be expended on the school, and it was alleged to be in a stale of disorganization; he was also informed, by persons fully competent to judge, that it was conferring little or no benefit on the community. Was this state of things to last? The Committee was asked for at a late period of the Session, and it was almost impossible then to go into an inquiry; but, would the Government grant a Committee at the commencement of the next Session? Were the allegations made by the students to be passed over unregarded? Where was their insubordination, or allegations of misconduct on their part? Was any charge ever made against them till they complained to the Council? For making that complaint they were expelled the establishment, and all their expectations and prospects blasted. Was the institution made for the masters or the students? The Report made by the Council
 1158
 Mr. Wakley  very much feared that the changes proposed by the right hon. Gentleman would not be satisfactory. The right hon. Gentleman had certainly taken great pains in reference to the subject, and the public were indebted to him for the services rendered them on this question; but, instead of simplifying his plan by the proposals he had now made, he (Mr. Wakley) was afraid that the additional number of examinations—the double examinations as to Scotland and Ireland—would not be satisfactory. The profession, however, would have an opportunity of considering the question during the recess, and he hoped that all parties would concur in bringing about a satisfactory conclusion to this very important, but extremely difficult question.
 Mr. Wyse  could also bear testimony to the fulness and fairness of the inquiry instituted by the Council into what he must designate as this unfortunate quarrel. He should feel it his duty to oppose the Motion as it then stood.
 Mr. Wyse  said, he was about to second the Motion of his hon. Friend; but the observations of the right hon. Baronet had gone far to remove the motives which might have induced his hon. Friend to press this question to a division. The right hon. Baronet had omitted in his statement any allusion to what the hon. Member (Mr. Ewart) had said respecting libraries. The observations of the hon. Member on that head were most important, and highly deserving of the attention of the Government. The proposal of the right hon. Gentleman, of giving a more comfortable house to the master, and a
 1147
 Mr. Ewart  said, that when the Military, the Naval, and the Ordnance Estimates were brought before the House, a statement was made of the prospects and condition of those branches of the public service respectively; and he did not see why, in like manner, there should not be an annual statement of the condition and prospects of the Educational Institutions which were
 1141 vivâ voce l. 1142 
 "1. That a statement be made, on the part of the Government, of the condition and prospect of such Educational Establishments as are supported wholly or partially by a vote of this House. "2. That it is expedient that the formation of Public Libraries, freely open to the public, be encouraged. "3. That it is expedient that Schools for the training of Masters be mote extensively promoted. "4. That it is expedient that appointments to the subordinate offices of Government be made (as far as possible) by examination of the merits of the candidates for such offices."
 Mr. Ewart  thought the time of the House ought not to be taken up by mere personal disputes; but on that portion of the question which was not personal a Member was justified in making a few remarks. What was the aspect of the case before them? Did the hon. Baronet deny that the school was disorganized? Thirty-seven of the senior pupils had seceded; he called the school disorganized, for it was thus torn and rent asunder. Mr. Herbert, the master, had left; the complaints were general; the manufacturers complained that they could not get good designs; Mr. Pugin, one of the most eminent judges of art in the country, declared the state of the school to be highly unsatisfactory, and said he was obliged to seek out artists to work his ornaments on the Continent. Had they not a right then to ask for inquiry? For what purpose was the school originally established? It was established by Lord Sydenham, in consequence of the Report of a Committee of which the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Hawes) and other hon. Gentlemen were Members. He was asked by Lord Sydenham to be a member of the Council, but, disapproving of the constitution of the school, he refused; the school, he believed, would have gone on well had it been properly conducted, and he believed it would hereafter produce excellent effects. But the hon. Baronet (Sir G. Clerk) seemed to consider that the object of the school was to make workmen, not artists. That was the fatal error; in that consisted the error of the whole system. A school of design ought to rest upon two things—the study of the human figure, and copying from nature. This was the course of study pursued by the most eminent artists, like Raffaelle, or those who had wrought practically in the art of ornament, like Benvenuto Cellini. The great school of Napoleon at Lyons was based on the study of the figure; and the school at Somerset-house would attain greater eminence, if the same course of study were adopted. In Paris, in the  Ecole Royale de Dessein Ecole Communale, 1157
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  complained that the Bill would cause a great deal of misery by separating families. He would mention one instance, that of a labouring man, who, after leaving Newtownards, had resided thirty-three years at Whitehaven, and having become chargeable to the parish, he was immediately sent off to Newtownards, regardless of his prayers and entreaties to be permitted to remain at Whitehaven, where some of his children had gained settlements. This separation had so great an effect upon the unhappy man's mind, that he had hanged himself.
 Mr. W. Williams  said, if the right hon. Baronet would consent to the appointment of the Committee for which he had given notice of his intention to move, he would not detain the House with a single observation.
 Mr. W. Williams  would then proceed to call the attention of the House to the circumstances under which he brought forward the Motion. He believed he was in a condition to prove that great mismanagement existed in regard to this institution. That it had proved a complete failure for the objects for which it was instituted was proved by the Report of the Committee which had been just presented to the House. The Committee say—
 "It is to be regretted that manufacturers are not more generally disposed to meet the views of such candidates for their service, and to afford them such facilities and liberal encouragement as would serve to secure, for the purposes of ornamental manufactures, much available talent, which, in default of such encouragement, is often withdrawn from the further study of ornament, and directed exclusively to the pursuit of fine art." 1150 "In the course of the last year, numerous applications have been received for the execution of designs in various departments of ornamental art, and every endeavour has been made to comply with these requests, as far as the execution of such commissions has been consistent with, and could be made to form a part of, the prescribed exercises and course of study in the school. Designs for different purposes have thus been furnished to manufacturers in London, and in several provincial towns, and from time to time manufacturers and others have purchased of students various designs which have been produced in the performance of the exercises of the school. In the number of such commissions, and in the extent to which the productions of the students are applied to commercial purposes, a constant increase is evident; and the numerous communications which come before the Council at each monthly meeting of the committee on correspondence, as well as the frequent visits and inquiries of persons connected with ornamental manufactures, may be noticed in proof of increasing relations between the school and those commercial parties whose interests this institution was especially designed to promote." 1151 1152 l. 1153 "A Select Committee be appointed, to inquire into the allegations contained in the Petition of the Senior Students, of the School of Design in Somerset House, and into the general management and present state of that School."
 Mr. W. Williams  objected to the Vote. He thought that the proposed amount was too much; besides this, he thought that the principle of paying the clergy by votes of this kind was most objectionable, especially in a Colony like Canada. He wished to know what had become of the proceeds of the hundreds of thousands of acres that had been reserved for the clergy, and which had been actually sold to defray some of the expenses of the Colony. Why, he wished to ask, had not
 1165
 Mr. W. Williams  said, that he so decidedly disapproved of the Vote, that he should divide the Committee on it.
 Mr. W. Williams  thought that those presents were completely thrown away. Many of the Indians were better off than our agricultural labourers at home.
 Mr. Williams  observed, that the same assertion had been made in 1845, and yet that the Vote remained the same.
 Sir G. Clerk  was unable, upon the part of the Government, to comply with the proposition of the hon. Member, as he thought that nothing could be more calculated to destroy the prospect of public benefit arising from the School of Design, than for the House to accede to the prayer of a small number of students for a Committee of Inquiry into their allegations. The hon. Member's complaints seemed to resolve themselves into two classes, the one founded upon gross partiality alleged to have been shown to Mr. Wilson, the other on gross injustice alleged to have been perpetrated towards Mr. Herbert. Mr. Wilson was chosen by the directors to succeed to Mr. Dyce, upon that gentleman's withdrawal from the establishment. He was an artist of very high talent, and one for whose works considerable prices had been given by the best judges. Besides his qualifications as an artist, Mr. Wilson was a man of fine taste and extensive knowledge of the history of the fine arts. Now, the duties of director of the School of Design were different from those of a mere teacher of painting. He did not wish to say a word in disparagement of Mr. Herbert; but he was employed in the school merely to teach drawing from the figure—not a primary or principal object of the School of Design, but one of an entirely subsidiary nature. Mr. Herbert was not a teacher of ornamental design; but unfortunately, because the pursuit of drawing from the figure was one more likely to be attractive to young men of artistic talent, than the mechanical work of designing patterns, there was a tendency on the part of many
 1154 1155 1156
 Sir J. Graham  said, that the Bill was intended chiefly to relieve Scotch and Irish paupers from many of the evils to which they had hitherto been exposed. In respect to the case mentioned by the hon. Member for Rochdale, he believed that the head of a family could not be removed in the way mentioned against his will, and if he were thus improperly removed, the party so offending would be subject to a severe penalty.
 Sir J. Graham  thought the proviso essential to the clause. It only legalized mere subscriptions.
 Sir James Graham  said, that although cases might occur in which a magistrate might act singly in a judicial capacity, yet it would be a sound discretion to make such cases rather the exception than the rule; and where a penalty was to be levied, he thought it would be well to do so in the presence of other magistrates and the clerk, where it was possible. When cases occurred in which a delay would
 1140
 Sir J. Graham  was not prepared to introduce any such measure.
 Sir J. Graham  said, he had no intention of introducing a measure to relieve the county magistrates from those duties. On the whole, he thought that they were most useful to the country from the manner in which they discharged their duties.
 Sir J. Graham  rose to state the alterations he proposed to make in this Bill. It was his intention to move that the House should go into Committee  pro formâ, l. s. l. s. l. s. 1170
 Sir R. Peel  thought that it was objectionable to make any departure from the custom of the House in the transaction of business, especially at so late a period of the Session, without the general concurrence of the House. His own opinion was in favour of the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman, and if that suggestion met with general concurrence on the part of the House, he had no objection to it whatever. If, therefore, the House concurred in the suggestion, he had no objection to propose that, after to-morrow, the House should meet for the despatch of business at twelve o'clock, and sit continuously, instead of adjourning after the morning sitting.
 Sir R. Peel  believed his hon. Friend would be able to show that there was no ground whatever for the allegations in the petition upon which the hon. Member had founded his case for a Committee. If so, and considering that it would be most objectionable to do any thing that might tend to encourage insubordination in the school, he must refuse his assent to the Motion.
 Sir R. Peel  said: However late the period of the Session, and however severe the pressure of public business, I cannot but think the importance of the subject justifies the hon. Gentleman in calling the attention of the House to the question of education. I shall very briefly notice the particular points to which the hon. Gentleman has referred, taking in order the Resolutions of which he has given notice. The House will have laboured under erroneous impressions if they supposed that there was not full information afforded with regard to the progress of education. I need not refer to the volume presented annually to the House as a reason why any oral statement should not be made to the House on the part of the Government, with regard to the progress of education during the preceding year. But for the purpose of indicating to those Members who take an interest in the question, I may say that there are annually presented to Parliament the Reports of the inspectors appointed by a Committee of this House, which Reports contain the most detailed and valuable information on the subject of education. There is the volume presented in the course of the present year, containing the able and full reports of the several Inspectors of Education. But I am not at all prepared to contend against the principle suggested by the hon. Gentleman. It is possible that because the information is so full and vague that Members may not readily acquire that knowledge of the subject which possibly they might obtain from an oral statement made by a Member of the Government. I am therefore disposed, on the part of the Government, to give my serious consideration during the recess to the proposition of the hon. Member. I think I can undertake to say, that during the course of the next Session this Vote will not be moved on the part of the Crown without such an explanation being made as shall answer the purpose of the hon. Member. I think it possible that such a statement may awaken public attention more forcibly to the subject, than the presentation of this volume, and will better enable Members to discuss the matter, and bring their local information to bear upon it. At any rate it will be a proof that the Government and Parliament attach due importance to the subject. I think I have said enough to show the hon. Gentleman that it will not be necessary for him to ask on this occasion for any expression of opinion on the part of the House. With reference to the grant
 1144 l. l. l.; l. status l. l. l. l. l. l, l. l. l. 1145 l. 1146
 Sir T. Fremantle  said, the charge was not of such a serious nature as to need a minute defence, and therefore, he should not enter on the question at any length. He reminded the noble Lord that it was the practice of the army for superior officers to try inferior, and it was sanctioned in the police by Act of Parliament. It was creditable to the management of Colonel M'Gregor, that the noble Lord
 1161
 Sir T. Fremantle : No, one in three.
 Sir T. Fremantle  said, that no change had been made by the present Government with reference to those appointments. All the inferior posts were placed at Colonel M'Gregor's disposal, and of the superior officers two out of three belonged to the Lord Lieutenant, and a great many were given to the sons of officers. The third belonged to Colonel M'Gregor, to promote such officers as he considered entitled to promotion.
 Viscount Clements  moved—
 "The consideration of the petitions of John Connif, E. Kirwan, Robert Clegg, and Joseph Boyd, formerly in the Irish police; and further, to recommend some change being made in the regulations of that body."
 Viscount Sandon  observed, that the Protestant bishop of Newfoundland got nothing at all; and before they proposed any increase to the amount paid to the Roman Catholic bishop, they ought to be sure that he would receive it, seeing how much opposed the Roman Catholic hierarchy of Ireland were to any connexion with or payment by the State.
 Viscount Sandon  said, it would be an extremely improvident act to dispose of the clergy revenues at present, as suggested by the hon. Member for Coventry,
 1166
 Mr. H. Berkeley  said, he would be sorry to cause any impediment to the passing of this Bill; inasmuch as he admitted that it contained a great deal of good. He thought that much evil would be inflicted on the people by the exercise of that power given to the Secretary of State by the 8th Clause. The Secretary of State was by this clause empowered to extend or diminish the jurisdiction of the courts, so as to equalize them all. He hoped that the
 1194
 Mr. Corry  thought the Amendment was brought forward at too late a period of the Session; and he should distinctly oppose any alteration in the clause.
 Sir R. Ferguson  considered such a sudden call upon all railways would work most detrimentally to the schemes as public works, and prove a source of very considerable injustice to those persons who had already signed contracts upon the faith of their being required to deposit only 5 l.
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  also suggested the extreme inconvenience that would be caused to shareholders in projected companies by the adoption of this rule.
 Sir R. Ferguson  did not consider that the alteration would prove any guarantee that the share lists were not filled up by fictitious names in the very same manner as heretofore. However, as the feeling of the House seemed to be in favour of the proposition of the noble Lord, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 Mr. Bouverie  objected to the measure, because it was to have a retrospective effect,
 1195
 Lord G. Somerset  said, the Committee made this proposition on the expectation that speculation would be as rife this year as it was at present, and in consequence of the recent disclosures in Parliament, it was necessary to procure a more respectable body of shareholders. The Amendment of Standing Order 128 had reference to
 1196
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that some such regulation as this appeared absolutely necessary, in order to stop the mania for speculating in railway shares. He doubted very much whether the rule would be
 1197
 Mr. E. B. Denison  said, that the effect of this order would be most unjust on those shareholders who had signed the Parliamentary deeds on the faith of the existing orders, and who had been led to believe that only a certain amount would be demanded of them until an Act of Parliament was obtained.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, it was admitted on the part of Colonel Lautour, that if he was only entitled under the regulations of 1829, he had no claim whatever. Now, the publication of the regulations was essential to their validity, and there was not the slightest evidence that those of December, 1828, ever were published. Sir Thomas Wilde, in his more recent opinion, declared most decisively that there was no claim under the regulations of 1828. [Mr.  Gibson:
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he did not think the hon. Member was borne out in his statement by the facts of the case. He merely wished the House to go,  pro formâ,
 Dr. Bowring  observed, that the effect of the rule would be to give an unfair advantage in the case of those railroads which were already formed, and to operate as a great injustice on those which were only projected.
 Mr. Wawn  trusted that vessels returning to a British port in ballast, after landing a cargo at another British port, would be exempted from the pilotage dues exacted from foreign vessels. The hon. Member moved to leave certain words to give effect to this distinction.
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  protested against the principle of pressing forward this Bill, because the Scotch bankers were said to be favourable to it. They would, of course, be glad that this measure should pass; because it would have the effect of increasing their monopoly, and preventing new banks being established. This was a question which ought to be decided by the mercantile interests of Scotland, who were directly opposed to it. He merely asked the right hon. Gentleman to delay this Bill until they could fairly take the opinion of the people of Scotland upon its merits.
 Mr. Milner Gibson  would not press the Motion to a division; but he trusted that he had said enough to induce Her Majesty's Government to take the subject into their consideration.
 Mr. Milner Gibson  rose to move—
 "That a Select Committee be appointed, to investigate the allegations contained in the Petition of Colonel Augustus Lautour, presented to this House June the 6th, 1844, and printed with the Votes June the 26th, 1844, and to report their opinion to the House." l., 1198
 Mr. Greene  observed, that the injustice of the proposed arrangement might be obviated by confining its operation to companies hereafter to be projected, and not applying it to those which were provisionally registered, or in which the deposits had been paid and the deeds signed.
 Sir G. Clerk  hoped the House would agree to the Amendment suggested by the Committee in their Report. Considering the mania for speculation which had been exhibited in this country during the past year, and the mode in which the share lists had been proved to have been filled up, he considered that the Committee were perfectly justified in their recommendation, and that the House ought, upon public grounds, to adopt it. Were the Standing Orders so amended, the public would have some security for the completion of the projects by the necessarily increased respectability of the parties promoting them.
 Captain Pechell  seconded the Amendment.
 Sir J. Graham  could hold out no hope of the kind; for he considered the clause to be highly necessary to give effect to the principle of the Bill.
 Mr. Williams  seconded the Motion, and hoped the Government would not object to the return. He was glad his hon. Friend had brought this case of injustice and oppression before the country; fortunately for him, he was in circumstances to enable him to do so; but he (Mr. Williams) ventured to say there were thousands who had precisely the same complaint to urge, but whose circumstances and credit did not enable hem to make public this system, not of oppression only, but of absolute fraud under the law. One of his own constitu-
 1209 nil: l.; nil; l.
 Mr. Bernal  had understood the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer on a former occasion to state that some mode of relief would be afforded the hon. Member. He did not complain of any breach of promise; but that was the impression left on his mind by that discussion. The hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) at the time the tax was proposed had foreseen this difficulty, and proposed a clause giving some department of the Government a jurisdiction in such cases. At present there were two courts of appeal—the local Board and the Board at Somerset House. His hon. Friend had appealed to the local Board; he might have been to blame in doing that, when it was composed of persons among whom he had taken a very decided part in politics. If they wished to diminish the unpopularity of the tax, they must take some means of meeting such cases. The measure was hurried through the House; the
 1216
 Mr. Bernal  wished to call the attention of the Government to a subject of considerable importance. They were aware through the newspapers that accidents had occurred lately on two or three of the leading railroads. Of course, there were casualties of the kind which were altogether beyond human control; but it did appear, that in the case of the accident on the South Eastern Railway there had been a want of care. A respectable surgeon, who was a passenger, and who attended on some of the unfortunate sufferers, expressly impugned the care and discretion of those managing the railway, in putting an engine behind the train. There had also been an accident to the mail train of the Birmingham Railway, where there had not been a sacrifice of human life, but certainly a great deal of injury to the limbs of the passengers. He was not able to suggest a mode by which these things could be checked, but at the same he thought that some good
 1219
 Mr. Clive  hoped some arrangement of the kind would be made. He was himself suffering severely from the effects of the great carelessness of those who conducted the railway on the occasion of one of the accidents that had been mentioned.
 Mr. Bernal  hoped the right hon. Baronet did not suppose that the Session of 1846 would be less distinguished by the pressure of railway business than that of 1845. He thought it deserved the serious attention of the right hon. Baronet, whether it were likely that they would be able to obtain in successive Sessions the attendance of Members on Railway Committees, and whether they would not be compelled to adopt some other system.
 Mr. Williams  supported the Amendment of the hon. Member for Rochdale. He was opposed to votes of public money for the support of religious ministers of any denomination.
 Admiral Dundas  could not allow any aspersions to be cast on the character of the present Bishop of New Zealand, without standing up in his defence. He believed no man had ever exercised the functions of his office with greater zeal and devotion—no man had been more successful in the performance of his sacred duties—and there was no man whose character was, in every respect, more exemplary than that of the right rev. Prelate.
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  would not go into the discussion whether or not this church was a good specimen of Gothic architecture; for this was not a Committee of Taste but of Supply. He thought the right hon. Gentleman had over-estimated the difficulty of procuring a site. He had the honour of sitting on a Committee connected with this subject, and the result of their investigation was, that several sites could now be procured at a comparatively cheap rate, which in a few years might cost a large sum. He hoped, then, Government would lose no time in getting rid of the nuisance of the churchyard, which, in his belief, was injurious to the health of Members of that House, and he was sure was so to persons who resided in the neighbourhood. He did not think the Vote should be postponed; for they would probably have to pay next year a much larger sum if no provision was now made for the repair of the church.
 Mr. Williams  hoped that amongst the illustrious rulers of this country to whom statues were to be erected, Cromwell would not be forgotten. He believed that, of the monarchs who ruled this country for 1,000 years, there was not one to be found more distinguished as a soldier and a statesman. Cromwell was as worthy of remembrance by the people of this country as Napoleon by the people of France. Less crime and less cruelty could be brought home to him than to any one who had attained such renown as a warrior and statesman.
 Mr. Williams : I am very glad to hear it.
 Mr. Williams  objected to this Vote. There was none to which the people of England more strongly objected. Bearing in mind the statements made by the Secretary of State for the Home Department at the beginning of the Session, he presumed the whole of the Vote was administered by the Foreign Office; but
 1257 l.
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  said, that it was not the speeches that were made in that House, but out of it, of which he had to complain. Hon. Gentlemen opposite wished for a separate grant for a system of education in connexion with the Protestant Church: they demanded a grant for the Church Education Society; but, if that were conceded, an equivalent, and consequently a much larger grant, should, in justice, be given to a Roman Catholic board for the purpose of Roman Catholic education. Such a course would upset the present united and useful system, and lead to much sectarian bitterness.
 Lord C. Hamilton  denied that there existed on the part of those who sup-
 1260
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  conceived that a distinct grant to the Church Education Society would have the effect he described. The very name of the society indicated a sectarian character. The Church Catechism was required to be taught in the schools of the Church Education Society. [Lord  C. Hamilton:
 Lord C. Hamilton  defended the application of the term "anti-Scriptural," and insisted that 815 of the national schools had been found to admit neither the Scriptures nor the Extracts.
 Lord C. Hamilton  could justify what he had said, but had much more respect for the Committee than for the observations just made.
 Mr. Williams  thought that this sum ought not to be taken in one vote, but that it should be divided into several votes. Upon one portion of the Vote he should take the sense of the Committee—namely, on that relating to the expenditure which had taken place in excursions made on board of Her Majesty's ships of war by certain bishops connected with our dependencies. He also objected to the charge of 25 l. l. l. s. d.
 Mr. Corry  rose to propose that the sum of 7,528 l. s. d. l. 1264 1265 s. d. l. 1266 s. d. s. d. 1267 l.; l. l., l. l.
 Admiral Dundas  considered the sum now proposed sufficient, but regarded the plan as unsatisfactory and abortive. It was said that the admirals' list was very large; but it was smaller by twenty than in 1800.
 Mr. Abel Smith  agreed with the first observations of the noble Lord. He thought, however, that St. Margaret's burial-ground should be removed, and he hoped that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not overlook the matter.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that the sum alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman was not voted in supply from his pocket. The fund for metropolitan improvements came from the coal tax imposed on the port of London.
 Mr. Hawes  adverted to the collection of prints recently purchased for the British Museum, and lauded the care bestowed by the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) in the acquisition of treasures of this kind, and the general liberality and discrimination exhibited by him in matters relating to the fine arts.
 Mr. Hawes  was glad to hear that the intercourse between the Colonial Office and the New Zealand Company had been revived. This was creditable to the Colonial Office, after so many sharp debates; and he trusted that the whole matter would soon be brought to a satisfactory conclusion.
 Mr. Hawes  hoped that the sittings on
 1222
 Mr. Hawes  hoped the discouragement the Chancellor of the Exchequer had attempted to cast on the "British virtue" of offering a decided opposition to an arbitrary measure, would not prevent any person who felt injured by the Income Tax from stating his case, and offering it all the opposition in his power. He had always opposed the tax; he thought it a dangerous basis for a large amount of taxation—one founded on a most unjust principle, which could not be carried out into practice without causing complaints. The right hon. Gentleman said, there was not much public opposition to it when imposed; but he left out of consideration the fact that when it was proposed, it was accompanied by certain other offers. He knew the value of the admission; those offers were accepted by certain great interests; they took the Income
 1214 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1215 l.
 Mr. Hawes  said, the objection to giving publicity to private affairs did not apply in cases where the party himself stated that he did not care about it.
 Mr. Escott  felt somewhat alarmed at the tone of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Depart-
 1256 l. l.
 Mr. C. Buller  said, he understood that the hon. Member the Under Secretary of the Colonies was prepared to give an answer to the question of which he had given notice respecting the state of education in Malta. He was anxious to be informed as to the measures taken by the Government to carry out the recommendations of the Commissioners with respect to the promotion of education in that Colony. The population of the Colony amounted to 118,000 persons, a number so very considerable, that it rendered the duty of promoting education amongst them more imperative on the Government. The revenue of the Colony amounted to 120,000 l., 1200 l. l.
 Mr. C. Buller  could not refrain from expressing his opinion that the present system of conducting the railway business of that House was the most defective and mischievous that had ever been devised, from the expanse to which parties were put, and the uncertainty that attended the decisions of different Committees. It was
 1223
 Mr. C. Buller  said, that nothing could be in a better tone than was the speech of the right hon. Baronet; and he should feel greatly disappointed if the communications now going on between the Colonial Office and the New Zealand Company were not attended with the most satisfactory results. As to the choice of a Governor for the Colony, they ought to recollect that for a new settlement they required as a Governor a man of great ability, and 1,200 l. l. l., l., l. l., l. l. l. l., l. l. l. 1247 l. l. l., l. l. l. l.,
 Mr. C. Buller  objected to the Bill being pressed; he had understood it would not be pressed if objected to, and he could assure the hon. Gentleman it would be resolutely and vigorously opposed in every stage.
 Mr. Hindley  was glad to see the sum referred to by the hon. and gallant Member, on the Votes, as it showed that some sympathy existed in England towards the Queen of Tahiti.
 Mr. Hindley  said, that there was much difference of opinion as to the propriety of accepting grants of public money amongst the Dissenters. The Presbyterians in Ireland were generally in favour of such grants, and there was, therefore, no inconsistency in their accepting this Vote; but the Independents and Baptists were opposed to such grants.
 Mr. Hindley  thought the Vote should be postponed, and the church ultimately pulled down, as it would be in the way of the proposed Westminster improvements.
 Mr. Hindley  was an advocate for the voluntary principle in all cases. But he believed the New Zealand Company had already turned their attention to the subject, and had invested 7,000 l.
 Mr. Hindley  complained that the present Bishop of New Zealand had consecrated, for the exclusive burial of Protestants, a portion of the cemetery which had hitherto been used for the interment of the inhabitants of the Colony generally, without regard to religious distinctions. He had received communications stating that this act of the Bishop's had given great dissatisfaction, and that a petition would be forwarded to him for presentation to the House of Commons on the subject.
 Colonel Sibthorp  trusted that when this sum was expended this Commission would cease, and that Parliament would not be called upon to vote any more money for improving the estates of two noble Lords, under pretence of improving the river Shannon. He looked upon the whole
 1252
 Mr. Protheroe  was of opinion that St. Margaret's Church was a very fair specimen of undecorated Gothic architecture. The only part of the Abbey which was concealed by the Church was the ugly portion between the north entrance and Henry the Seventh's chapel, and St. Margaret's Church was far more sightly. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Dungarvon had asked how many Members of Parliament attended that church. In former years, he (Mr. Protheroe) frequently attended St. Margaret's Church, both in the morning and evening, and often saw a considerable number there. He trusted the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would turn his attention to the state of St. Margaret's churchyard. The effluvia arising from it was most disagreeable, and hon. Members, whose attendance in Parliament was compulsory, suffered more or less from the air sent into the House by Dr. Reid.
 Mr. Protheroe  asked, was it intended that this country should be saddled with the ecclesiastical establishments of New Zealand?
 Mr. G. A. Hamilton  stated that, however strongly he was opposed to the National System of Education in Ireland—however he was of opinion that a most important principle had been conceded in it, in order to render it palatable and acceptable to the Roman Catholic party—and, although he should have felt it to be his duty to give it every opposition if now brought forward for the first time, and its principle made the subject of discussion, yet he was ready to admit, all things considered—considering that the system had been now for more than twelve years in operation, supported by three successive Administrations differing from each other in political sentiments, and that school-houses had been built and arrangements made upon the faith of its continuance, he (Mr. Hamilton) should not feel justified in endeavouring so suddenly, as on a Vote in Committee of Supply, to stop a grant for the support of schools in which so many hundred thousand children of the poor in Ireland were now in course of education. It was certainly his intention to have brought under the consideration of the House the present state of the Education Question in Ireland, with the view of vindicating the Protestants of Ireland, and especially the clergy of the Established Church, from the unjust imputations which had been cast upon them, and the odium to which they had been exposed in consequence of their continued and conscientious refusal to identify themselves with, or give their sanction to, that system—and of stating to the House the reasons and motives by which they were actuated. But, at so advanced a period of the Session—in the present position of public business—in the exhausted state of the House, and in the absence of so many of his hon. Friends—he felt it would be
 1258
 Mr. G. W. Hope  was understood to say, that, in the present state of the Colony, it was necessary that the means of religious instruction for the inhabitants should be provided by this country.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, the present Governor went out on a special mission, and he would, therefore, receive a special allowance. That special allowance would be 2,500 l. l.
 Mr. G. W. Hope , leaving the general question as having been already sufficiently discussed, would confine himself to the amount of the present estimate. He agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard, that the smallness of the
 1249
 Mr. G. W. Hope  had already stated that the calculations upon which the present Estimate was framed, were made upon very imperfect information.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, that the absence of his noble Friend was not the only reason why the negotiation was not yet concluded. Another Gentleman had been called in to give his advice, and he was preparing his views, which would, when submitted, receive full consideration.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, that it was not his intention on that occasion to enter into the general question as to the state of education in Malta; but he could state from his own knowledge that there was a strong disposition on the part of the Government here and at Malta to consult the wishes of the inhabitants in every measure adopted for their improvement, and many things had been already done in the Colony with that view. But it was heardly necessary for him to say that in a population like that of Malta, many local prejudices existed calculated to impede any general measures for their improvement, particularly with respect to education. An attempt had been made to found an University there; but he was sorry to say that it had not had that success on which its promoters had calculated. This had arisen partly from the fact that it had been planned on too great a scale, and partly from the circumstance that the gentleman who had been selected as the president of the College, and those who were intended to act with him, did not work
 1201 l. l.;
 Mr. G. W. Hope  moved the Second Reading of the Waste Lands (Australia) Bill. He had some important Amendments to introduce.
 Mr. Aglionby  said not one, but every interest, was opposed to the Bill. He
 1271
 Mr. Aglionby  congratulated the House on the assent given by the right hon. Baronet to the suggestion of the hon. Member for Montrose to meet early and rise early on Wednesdays. He could not omit the opportunity of paying his tribute to Her Majesty's Government for their regular attendance in that House. Not even the most assiduous Member of the House had surpassed them in the attention they had devoted to the public business.
 Mr. Aglionby  observed, that there appeared to him to be very little difference between the opinions of the hon. and learned Member for Bath, and the right hon. Baronet, as to that species of representative government which should be given to New Zealand. He hoped that the result of the proceedings that had been alluded to would be good government, under which the Colony would prosper.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, his hon. Friend was quite correct in supposing that the New Zealand Company had set apart a large sum for the purposes of religious instruction, and they had granted assistance in this respect without regard to any feelings of partiality for one religion more than another. They had been guided only by the proportionate numbers of each sect in the particular locality to which the grant was made, and they had given the largest division of the funds to the members of the Established Church, as being the largest body.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could assure the hon. and gallant Officer that the money voted for improving the Shannon, had been applied in that which was an important public work, carried on under the most competent engineers, and would be completed in the shortest possible period of time. With regard to the expense of the Commission itself, one person only as a Member of that Commission received salary.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  remarked, that architectural amateurs were
 1253 l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : Yes, once.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the Archdeacon, at his visitation, had presented the church as not being in a fit state of repair.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could not obtain the support of the hon. Gentleman opposite by giving any assurance that the Vote would be discontinued after a particular period.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that this was a subject which would depend next Session on a great many points and difficulties which could not be considered now. He hoped hon. Members would now let the public business proceed.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the hon. Member for Oldham was quite aware, having some time ago stated his intention of moving for these Papers, that with respect to a majority of them, there was no objection to producing them; but with respect to the correspondence with the Commissioners on the subject, those documents were not of an official character, and it was not in his power to consent to their production. He wished to offer a few observations on the statement which the hon. Member had made to the House; the hon. Gentleman and the hon. Member for Coventry had both stated that there were thousands of similar cases of oppression under this Act, but that individuals were afraid to make complaints on the subject. He must be permitted to express serious doubts on this point; he did not find there was this great unwillingness to complain on the part of persons who felt aggrieved by any tax imposed by Parliament; and he could truly say with respect to such complaints from parties with regard to the Income Tax, the Government was entirely ignorant of them. A still stronger proof that these complaints were not so general, and that there was not this general feeling of hostility to the Income Tax, was found in this fact—the House was called on to renew the Act; and if
 1210 1211 1212 d. 1213
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  hardly thought that it would be ready by that time.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had not entered into the details of what passed before the Commissioners. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had no more power to call for particular returns from the Commissioners than the hon. Gentleman himself.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the correspondence was extra-official, and he could not produce it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the subject was at present under the consideration of the Treasury and the Board of Control.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  quite agreed in the principle laid down by the hon. Member for Coventry and the hon. and gallant Officer, that the Colonial bishops ought to pay for all excursions made for the purposes of recreation out of their own pockets; but the excursion in question did not come within that description. The journey to Lisbon of the Bishop of Gibraltar was rendered necessary, in order that a new church and a burying ground should be consecrated. The charges of entertaining passengers of the rank of bishops, who dined at the
 1263
 Mr. Fielden  said, he had no wish to divide the House, but he hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would grant him the correspondence between the Commissioners of the Court of Appeal and the Board of Stamps and Taxes.
 Mr. Fielden , in explanation, said, if the right hon. Gentleman had spoken from information as to what had taken place, he must tell him it was incorrect. He had answered any question put to him, he had given all the information he could, he had offered his books for examination; but the first intimation he had of the decision was the levy made on his goods. If the right hon. Gentleman would allow him to meet the Commissioners face to face, or give him a Committee, if he did not make out a case for inquiry satisfactory to every reasonable man, he would give up the question.
 Mr. Fielden  said, before going into Committee of Supply, he wished to bring forward a Motion of which he had given notice, relative to the treatment he and others had received under the Income Tax Act. He did intend to state the case he was going into on the Report of the Vote of 15,000 l. 1202
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that when New Zealand was first colonized, the country had been led to expect that a new era in colonization had commenced. He believed that if a little care were taken, and proper preparation made, before colonization was attempted, they might have a self-sustaining system. A great deal had been said of the danger which existed to colonists so situated as were those of New Zealand; but if they formed a general government on the principle of the representative system, there would be no danger whatever. Let them have a Governor representing the Crown, an Executive Council appointed by the Crown, and a legislative body appointed by counties, and let the legislature of the Colony be formed on this basis. Let the administration be in the Governor, with the advice, though not necessarily with the consent of the Council. It was surprising, seeing that we had colonized the whole of North America, that we had not by this time acquired sufficient knowledge and experience to colonize so small a portion of the earth's surface without the terrible squabbles which had been carried on between the Government and the Company—squabbles, terrible from the consequences to which they had, in some measure, led. What he wished to press upon the Government was, that they should adopt a general system. If they sent out to New Zealand a body of men, who understood the business of political surveying, who would lay the country out into counties, and if they had a general law prepared that each county, as it attained its necessary share of population, should receive its law from the law and from nothing else; and that it should govern itself, not by giving to it municipal powers—a course against which he would warn the right
 1239
 Mr. John Abel Smith  observed, that he understood that the New Zealand Company, confiding in the expressions made use of by the right hon. Baronet (Sir R.
 1237
 Mr. J. Abel Smith  said, it might not be out of place for him here to remark upon the news that had that day reached the City of another disastrous fire in Quebec, by which 1,300 houses were burned to the ground, and several thousands of persons had been reduced to total destitution and to great suffering. He wished to ask whether Government contemplated to alleviate in any way the distress of these poor people?
 Mr. Brotherton  complained of the manner in which the Land Tax Commissioners were nominated. As it was, if a borough Member wished to nominate one, he could not do so without the consent of the county Member, and with him he had no chance if he was of different politics. With respect to the case before the House, the reason why the firm returned "no profits," was, that their humanity would not allow them to stop their works, and the consequence was that there was a vast accumulation of stock. They had had no less than 600,000 pieces of cloth on hand which were unsaleable.
 Mr. Hume  was glad the case had been brought forward; he was an advocate of direct taxation, but he wished it to be levied with as little trouble to the subject as possible. When the Bill was before the House he pointed out the anomaly of giving the power to levy a taxation of 4,000,000 l. l. 1217
 Mr. Hume  wished to make a suggestion to the right hon. Baronet as to the arrangement of the business of the House for the next Session of Parliament. The Government had this year taken, of late, both Tuesday and
 1221
 Mr. Hume  appealed to the right hon. Baronet as a man of peace, and not a man of war, to know what had been done with respect to the formation of harbours of refuge.
 Mr. Hume  thought that they ought not to divide on this Motion until they had a statement from the Government as to whether it was prepared to promise such an arrangement as would prevent the Vote of this sum after a given time.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the manner in which the Colonies had been treated required that Parliament should pass an Act, declaring what rights they were to possess, and what government they were to enjoy, and they would then be prepared to carry out the suggestions of his hon. and learned Friend. The great defect of our present system was to be found in the Colonial Department itself; the evil existed at head quarters. People might plan what they liked for the good government of the Colonies elsewhere; but so long as the Colonial Department remained defective, nothing in the way of permanent good could be accomplished. There was no prospect of an improved system in regard to our Colonies until they introduced some change into the Colonial Department by legislative enactment. He entreated the right hon. Baronet, in reference to this unfortunate matter, to step boldly out, and take the course which he well knew to be the right one, and to bring forward proper measures by which to impart confidence to the colonists. He hoped the right hon. Baronet would do this, for nobody trusted the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies. As to this Vote, he thought that they had already thrown away too much money for the support of Colonial misrule, and he felt it his duty to oppose it.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know whether any minute on the subject would be ready to be sent out by the India mail, which would leave on Monday?
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether any instructions had been sent out by Government, or the Board of Control, relative to the division of the plunder taken in Scinde; and if so, whether the right hon. Gentleman would object to the production of a copy of any minute of Council on the subject?
 Mr. P. Borthwick  objected to the Vote, upon the ground, that the money lately expended on this building had been laid out on embellishments in the worst possible taste. He thought that the church ought to be pulled down altogether, and another constructed in a different part of the parish. He must also say that much bad taste was displayed in the monuments in the neighbouring Abbey of Westminster, which, he said, were unlike anything in the heaven above, in the earth beneath, or in the waters under the earth. He objected strongly, too, to the mythological devices introduced into a Christian church, and the showmanlike manner in which they were exhibited.
 Mr. Philip Howard  had formed one of a deputation which waited on the right hon. Baronet urging the necessity of converting Douglas, in the Isle of Man, into a harbour of refuge; and to effect that object, the authorities of the island were ready to devote a portion of their revenues, if they were supported in that project by the Government. The celebrated Paul Jones had, almost within memory, burnt St. Mary's Isle, threatened Whitehaven, and scoured those seas with impunity, showing, in the event of war with America
 1235
 Mr. P. Howard  said, that the rarity of accidents on the Brussels and Antwerp Railway proved how useful was an efficient system of superintendence.
 Mr. B. Osborne  was somewhat surprised at the turn the discussion had taken. It appeared now that the attention of the House had been taken up by a mere squabble between the New Zealand Company and the Government, and now that that dispute was in a fair way for settlement, the
 1250
 Mr. B. Osborne  wished to know whether the present Governor was to have any increase of salary, as compared with the former Governors.
 Mr. B. Osborne  supposed that the two noble Lords to whom the hon. and gallant Officer referred were the Marquess of Lansdowne and Lord Monteagle.
 Mr. Bernal Osborne  was in favour of the demolition of the church, as a Committee of the House had already suggested. As to Members going there, that was only a parliamentary fiction. He thought that even 50,000 l.
 Mr. Osborne  complained of the attacks that were made against the system, referring in particular to a speech of the Bishop of Cashel, in the other House of Parliament, wherein that right rev. Prelate stated that seventy-six out of 100 of the children educated in a particular locality could neither read nor write; the fact being, that those were children between the ages of five and ten, a fact which the right rev. Prelate omitted to state. His speech had been quoted and relied on at several public meetings, as containing substantial proofs and charges against the efficiency of the national system of education, but against which no tangible charge had yet been brought forward even by the right rev. Prelate.
 Mr. Osborne  said, that if the national system did not supply united education, it was because the clergy of the Established Church set their faces against it, and refused to attend at the schools. The rules allowed religious instruction to be given, and provided for it, though no child was to be required to attend if its parents objected. And hon. Members who voted for the Irish Colleges Bill could call this an anti-Scriptural system!
 Mr. Sheil : It comes from my pocket, nevertheless. I don't burn turf.
 Mr. Sheil  could understand how the right hon. Gentleman had gone. The Speaker went there once a year, and the right hon. Gentleman had probably accompanied him on one of these occasions. But very few Members of the House had ever been within the walls of St. Margaret's church. They should then put out of the case the use made by the House of Commons of the church. He thought, moreover, that there should be full paro-
 1254 l. l.
 Mr. Sheil  had a curiosity—he would not in the presence of the noble Lord opposite characterize the word in any way—but he really had a curiosity to know whether the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool, or the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had ever attended divine service at the church in question?
 Mr. Sheil  could not concur with his
 1240 l., 1241 1242 1243
 Mr. Mangles  believed, if the colonists of New Zealand were allowed to govern themselves, there would be a revenue more than sufficient to meet all the expenses of the Colony, without calling for any aid from this country.
 Mr. Wyse  wished to know from the right hon. Baronet opposite, whether it were intended, as intimated by him at the commencement of the Session, to establish model schools in Ireland, with a view to the introduction of a higher class of education; and also, whether it was intended to incorporate the National Board, so as to give it the power of taking land for the building of schools, particularly in those districts where, as the right hon. Baronet must be aware, there existed great difficulty in obtaining sites for that purpose, owing to the opposition of the proprietary to the national system of education, and in consequence of which, schools were sometimes established in places most inconvenient to the majority of the population. He also wished to know whether it was intended to better the style of existing school-houses, some of which were scarcely better than hovels.
 Mr. Wyse  said, he did not wish to propose any Motion on the subject. His object was to obtain from the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government an expression of sympathy in the views he entertained.
 Mr. Wyse  wished to call the attention of the Government to a proposition he had before submitted to the House for the Establishment of a Gallery of National Antiquities. Such an establishment might either be connected with the British Museum, or a separate institution might be formed.
 Mr. S. Crawford,  objecting to any grant to a professor of divinity, moved that the Vote be reduced to 7,228 l.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  said, that it was his intention to take the sense of the House upon this Vote. He was an advo-
 1236 l.
 Mr. W. Williams  observed, that from all he had heard, he believed the present Bishop of New Zealand to be a most estimable person, and in every way fitted for the duties of his sacred office; but he thought the charge for the ecclesiastical establishment of the Colony ought not to be placed upon this country. He hoped that means would be taken to provide for the payment of the clergy out of the revenue arising from the waste lands of the Colony.
 Mr. W. Williams  had come down to the House expecting that this Vote was to be opposed. That, he believed, was the general understanding. But it appeared now that the Company having got their million of acres of land secured to them, as he supposed they had or would have under the renewed negotiation with the Colonial Office, they were for increasing instead of opposing the Estimates, knowing very well that the more money was expended in the Colony, the better it would be for themselves. He had no doubt if the Session lasted much longer, they would have a Supplemental Estimate brought in for New Zealand. For his part, he thought we were already taxed enough for this mismanaged Colony. Would the hon. Gentleman say whether this Vote included all that this country would be called upon to pay on account of the present year, or whether he intended to propose a Supplemental Estimate?
 Mr. W. Williams  complained that the Government had introduced eleven Bills within only a few weeks of the close of the Session, and when it was impossible that they could be duly considered.
 Mr. W. Williams  opposed the Vote. An actuary would tell the Government that this would really be equivalent to a vote of half a million; it would take that sum to buy such annuities; and already, during a thirty years' peace, the navy had cost on an average 3,500,000 l. 1268
 Sir C. Napier , as a naval officer, returned his thanks to the Government for having at last given the navy such a large retiring allowance. It appeared from the very clear statement of the hon. Secretary to the Admiralty that it was utterly impossible for the service to go on in its present state. He did not agree with his hon. and gallant Friend, who had just addressed the Committee as to the disinclination of officers to accept the retiring pay. In point of numbers and amount of money, the plan was as much as the navy had at present a right to expect; but he thought there should be a juster division of the grant, in order to make it more acceptable to the old officers generally. If it were desired to remove the old admirals from the top of the list, they ought to be properly remunerated, or they would not give up their prospects of being appointed to the dockyards or other of our naval establishments. For the purpose of inducing them to accede to the plan, he would suggest that their pay should be 400 l. l. 1269
 Sir C. Napier  said, that they had at present at sea eight sail of the line; but they, in point of seamen, were two rates below their proper complement. It was only the other day that the gallant Admiral
 1234
 Sir C. Napier  presumed, that the bishops to whom the hon. Gentleman had alluded, had made these excursions in the performance of their duty; and an allowance ought to be made for their expenses, unless they went about for their own amusement. There was, however, one item which he thought objectionable—namely, 60 l. l.
 Sir G. Clerk  said, whenever such accidents occurred, it was the practice of the Board of Trade to despatch an engineer officer to the spot to ascertain the cause of them. The companies were also bound to report them within a certain time after they occurred. He expected that in the course of the day the Board of Trade would receive the report of the engineer sent to inquire into the accident on the South Eastern line. He must at the same time observe, that although the Board of Trade generally found that any suggestions they made were attended to by the Companies, yet they had no power whatever to enforce compliance. It might, certainly, be hereafter necessary to impose some more efficient check on the railway companies for the prevention of accidents.
 Sir G. Cockburn  said, it was clear, for the reasons stated by the gallant Commodore, that if the list was to be cleared in this manner, it must be done in time of peace. With respect to the sum, it was a difficult thing to settle, some thinking it too much and some too little; but they had endeavoured to fix it at the proper amount as far as they could ascertain it. It remained to be seen how far the proposal would be acceptable to the service. If any other arrangement should be thought better, it would be open to the Government to adopt it. He thought it, however, too much to say that if it were adopted they ought in such cases as that which had lately occurred at New Zealand to be debarred from making special promotions. With respect to the objections made to this great scheme, he did not think them sufficiently important to prevent it. He had laid before the House the general principles on which it was based, but if minor alterations would give
 1270
 Sir G. Cockburn  said, that Queen Pomare sought a refuge aboard of the  Cormorant,
 Captain Pechell  regretted that any comparison had been drawn between the officers of the two services, and language used tending only to excite animosity between them. The navy did not grudge the army anything it had. The proposed plan was well intended, and the Government were taking a step in the right direction. It would remedy some grievances, of which the hon. Member himself (Mr. Williams) complained. He thought the plan could not succeed, on account of the smallness of the additional pay. The plan being contingent on its acceptance by a sufficient number of officers, he presumed it was still open to revision. Was it intended that officers should forfeit their good service pensions, or give up their salaries as Queen's naval aides-de-camp?
 Captain Pechell  observed a sum charged for the entertainment of Queen Pomare and her Consort when she took shelter on board of the  Cormorant, Cormorant?
 Captain Pechell  hoped the Government would take into consideration the cases of those persons having incomes under 150 l,
 Sir Howard Douglas  wished to state some particulars relative to the late fire in Quebec, which had just reached him. The first fire took place on the 28th of May, and destroyed 1,600 houses; and, the second, on the 28th of June, and destroyed 1,300 houses. The extent of the calamity could be best ascertained by comparing the amount of loss with the numbers of the population. Quebec was a town containing 35,000 inhabitants, and the loss occasioned by the two fires amounted to 1,250,000 l.
 Sir J. Graham  had no hesitation in stating that the Board of National Education in Ireland did intend to found in certain districts such schools as he had described at an early part of the Session; and, in order to meet the difficulty referred to by the hon. Member respecting sites for school-houses, it was proposed to recommend to Her Majesty to grant a charter of incorporation to the National Board, whereby they would be enabled to take and appropriate land for that purpose. In reply to the hon. Member's last question, he could state that the attention of the Board had been directed to the state of existing school-houses. The point was one of much difficulty; but he had no doubt that they would be made more worthy of the object to which they were applied.
 Sir J. Graham  agreed with the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool, and his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The objection taken to the church was not only that it intercepted the view, but the site itself was very objectionable. Suppose the expense of rebuilding the church not to exceed 40,000 l., l. 1255
 Sir R. Peel  said, he was fully sensible of the importance of this subject; but there were at present such numerous demands upon the Government for new buildings and for the establishment of new institutions, that they found it absolutely necessary to put some limit upon their expenditure in this department. He thought if such a selection of antiquities as that referred to by the hon. Member for Waterford should be formed, it was most advisable that it should be united with the British Museum, rather than established as a separate institution. He would suggest to the hon. Gentleman the propriety of postponing the consideration of this subject until the new buildings now in course of erection in connexion with the British Museum were completed.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he considered it was far preferable to aid local institutions in preserving local antiquities, than to remove such antiquities from the vicinities with which their interest was immediately connected.
 Sir R. Peel  said, the news had reached him only this morning, and he had heard it with the utmost regret, that another and an equally serious calamity had fallen on the city of Quebec. On the former occasion Government had done all in their power for the sufferers; and he was sure that now similar care and sympathy would be shown. The people of the country had shown great sympathy with the sufferers, and thinking as he did that Parliament should show its sympathy also, before the Supply was completely gone through, he promised to propose a Vote for the purpose.
 Sir R. Peel  said, the noble Lord appeared to retain the impression that our means of defence were rather abated by the discoveries of steam navigation. He was not at all prepared to admit that. He thought that the demonstration which we could make of our steam navy was one which would surprise the world; and, as the noble Lord had spoken of steam bridges, he would remind him that there were two parties who could play at making them.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that a Committee had been appointed to investigate this subject, and their investigation would be continued during the recess. He thought the House and the country were much indebted to the hon. Member for Montrose for having called the attention of the Government to the subject.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he was sorry that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Dungarvon (Mr. Sheil) was deprived of the opportunity on the last occasion that the subject of New Zealand was debated in that House, of delivering the speech he had just made, and which was intended, as he thought, for a Motion very different from that which was now submitted to the House, and of which he cordially approved. He knew how painful it was for hon. Mem-
 1244 1245 1246
 Sir R. Peel  entertained a sincere wish to see all differences satisfactorily adjusted between the Company and the Colonial department, and to co-operate in every way in which he could for the well-being of the Colony of New Zealand. No one could regret more than he did the differences which had arisen between the Company and the Government. Communications had now passed between the Colonial Office and a deputation appointed to act on the part of the Company; and the members of that deputation were themselves, so far, the best judges of what had passed. He trusted that an
 1238
 Sir R. Peel  said, when the Income Tax was under consideration in 1842, of course the question arose who should be the parties entrusted with certain powers under the Act. The question appeared to resolve itself into one or other of two alternatives—either that the Government should have these powers, or that parties themselves interested in the just administration of the law should exercise them. As there was great jealousy of the Executive Government having a right to inquire into the affairs of individuals, which would give it a great influence, Parliament determined to act on the presumption that this power might be abused, and therefore thought it better to adhere to the principle of the former law, and gave the power of inspecting private affairs to private individuals. On the whole, Parliament affirmed that principle. Under what circumstances did the Government select the Land Tax Commissioners for the purpose of the Income Tax Act? Why, two years before, the Act appointing those Commissioners had been by the late Government renewed and altered. The present Government were asked to make a new selection of Commissioners for the purposes of the Income Tax Act, but they thought it much better to adhere to the Act as it stood, and so preclude the possibility of any suspicion as to their motives. He was ready to admit that it was objectionable that the private affairs of individuals should be made known to others who might be their rivals in trade; but in order to meet that objection, the Special Commissioners had been appointed, before whom persons could go who did not wish to go before the regular Commissioners. If the hon. Member had really reason to believe that the Commissioners were actuated by personal motives, he could have gone before the Special Commissioners, and so have avoided altogether the interference of his neighbours or of his political opponents. It would cause him very great regret to find that the hon. Member for Oldham had any just cause to complain of the operation of the Act; but at the same time be must observe that, considering the large amount that had been collected under the tax, the proportion of com-
 1218
 Sir R. Peel  said: Sir, I feel all the difficulty under which any person placed in my situation must labour in discussing publicly the question to which the noble Lord has felt it his duty to call our attention. I totally differ from the noble Lord as to the defenceless position of this country. I think I could prove that the noble Lord's impression on that subject is altogether erroneous; but I am quite sure that I should not be acting consistently with sound discretion, if I were to state the facts upon which my own opinion is founded. Nothing could be so unwise as to encourage parties—a small minority I trust—in other countries who may be bent on hostility to ours. I should be very sorry to furnish them with instruments to be used against their own Government, and thus to prevent that Government, though sincerely desirous of maintaining peace, from securing that object on account of the clamour of a certain portion of the community. I must say, generally, however, that the noble Lord has greatly underrated the
 1229 1230 1231 l. 1232 1233
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, I am not sorry that the hon. Member has called the attention of the House to this subject, because as the law at present stands, there are no means of reaching those by whom these accidents are caused; and if the moral responsibility which now rests on those who have the management of railways is not sufficient, it will be necessary for Parliament to insist on some different system. It is continually urged that the accidents by rail-
 1220
 Sir R. Peel  reminded the House that this Session had been a peculiar one, owing to the great press of private business. Government had introduced their financial measures at the earliest period; as well as all others, the Irish measures particularly, which were likely to meet with opposition. Therefore they had done their utmost to expedite the public business. On one measure alone—the Maynooth Bill—there had been eleven nights' debate before the second reading. With respect to next Session, he would be ready to support the hon. Member's proposition to meet early on Wednesday, and sit till six or half-past six o'clock. That would be much better than sitting for five continuous nights, the fatigue of which was too much for any strength. It was not possible for those who attended that House for fourteen hours a day duly to discharge their duty to the public, it was utterly impossible for those who had also official responsibilities. With respect to the Government having taken Thursday for their business, he doubted much whether they had gained anything by it; but in doing so, they had only followed the precedent of several Sessions both under the present and the late Government. That arrangement would not have been made if it had been seriously objected to, nor would it ever be pressed against the wish of the House. He hoped that for the rest of the Session they would be allowed to proceed with the public business, and that Members who had Motions would exercise that forbearance which would allow of the Session being brought as soon as possible to a close.
 Sir R. Peel  begged to remind the hon. Member what had been the result of the attempt to transfer the railway business to a Government tribunal. He was convinced that if that House parted with the power of adjudication, they would never be satisfied with the decisions of another tribunal, and that there would be still a struggle on the third reading. If it went forth to the public that the House of Lords had discharged their duty, while the House of Commons had shrunk from theirs, their position in the country would be altered, and they would feel compelled to step in at the third reading of Bills, in order that they might retain their position in the Constitution.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he had well considered the subject, and was of opinion that the retirement of 100 captains, while it would be attended with a loss of money, would be no remedy for the evil. If they did anything, he conceived it would be better to submit to an increased pecuniary loss, and provide an effectual remedy in the retirement of 300 captains. Notwithstanding what had been said about the principle of seniority, he did think that in certain cases the Crown should have the power of availing itself of the services of distinguished men having the confidence of the Crown, irrespective of that principle. As a general rule, he admitted that promotion ought to be by seniority; but if the country was willing to submit to a pecuniary sacrifice, he must put in a claim on the part of the Executive Government, to consider whether an occasional departure from that rule, in such cases as that of Lord Nelson, who died a vice-admiral, might not be admissible, in giving to captains the rank of rear-admiral, and to rear and vice-admirals, that of admiral, accompanying the selection with every precaution, and with every guarantee to the profession of its being made on the ground of merit, and merit only.
 Mr. Hutt  could assure his hon. Friend who had pronounced so eloquent an eulogium on Cromwell, that it was currently reported that a statue to his hon. Friend's favourite ruler was not excluded from the list of those about to be erected.
 Viscount Ebrington  said, he rejoiced heartily to hear once more that there was a prospect of agreement between the Company and the Colonial Office; but he warned the House not to expect any satisfactory settlement until some clear and intelligible principle had been laid down for dealing with the waste lands. All the great writers on international law were agreed on the subject. Their authority had been already appealed to in this controversy; but he would venture to trouble the House with the opinions of a great and good man, the late Dr. Arnold, who thus wrote in the  Englishman's Register, "It is said the land belongs to everybody—nothing belongs to everybody; it either belongs to somebody or to nobody at all. The air belongs to nobody, the open sea belongs
 1248 "It is true they have often gone further and settled themselves in countries which were cultivated, and then it becomes robbery; but when our fathers went to America, and took possession of the mere hunting grounds of the Indians of lands on which man had hitherto bestowed no labour, they only exercised a right which God has inseparably united with industry and knowledge."
 Viscount Palmerston  said: I wish to say a few words in reference to the subject of accidents on railways. As a matter of public duty, I think it right to say that this case of carelessness, if it be one, on the Dover Railway, is not the first instance of bad management on that particular line. I happened to come from Dover to London in November last; and, as I was in my own carriage at the end of the train, with my back turned to the engine, I had a complete view of what passed. During the greater part of the journey, and especially in passing through the tunnels, the train was not only drawn by an engine in front, but propelled by one at the back; and if any stoppage had occurred, the back engine must inevitably have gone through the train. The passengers, when they got out at the station, were totally unaware of this hindermost engine having been used. On inquiry I was informed that, from a desire of economy, a set of engines were employed by the Company which were not strong enough singly to do the work, and that two engines therefore were used, where one would otherwise have been sufficient.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, the right hon. Baronet seemed to imagine that he advocated a great increase of the regular army, and a rivalry with continental nations. He had distinctly disclaimed any such view; all that he had recommended was the training of the militia. In reference to steam navigation, what he had said was, that the progress which had been made had converted the ordinary means of transport into a steam bridge. He did not mean to impeach the energy of the country, should danger arise. What he meant was, that without previous organization, the bravest men would be of no avail against an armed force.
 Viscount Palmerston  said: My principal object in rising, is to call the attention of the House to a matter of great national importance, directly connected with the business upon which we are about to enter—I mean that of the Committee of Supply; it is the great imperfection of the present state of our national means of defence. I repeat, that this is a subject of the utmost importance. I think that any man who values peace, and who is sensible of the advantages which the country derives from it, must feel that this is a matter of first-rate importance; for peace between two countries can never be secure except when they stand upon a footing of equality with regard to their respective means of self-defence. Now, Sir, France, as I had occasion to state on a former occasion, has now a standing army of 340,000 men, fully equipped, including a large force of cavalry and artillery, and, in addition to that, 1,000,000 of the National Guard. I know that the National Guard of Paris amounts to 80,000 men, trained, disciplined, reviewed, clothed, equipped, and accustomed to duty, and perfectly competent, therefore, to take the internal duty of the country, and to set free the whole of the regular force. Now, Sir, if France were a country separated from our own by an impassable barrier—if she had no navy, or if the Channel could not be crossed, I should say this was a matter with which we had no concern. But that is not the case. In the first place, France has a fleet equal to ours. I do not speak of the
 1224 1225 l., l. 1226 l. Chancellor of the Exchequer: l. l.; 1227 Si vis pacem para bellum, 1228
 Viscount Sandon  agreed that it would be impossible for this country to maintain the ecclesiastical establishments of all the Colonies. He believed that by an appropriation of the waste lands means might be provided for the religious training and education of the people, and for all clerical purposes, and he considered that the colonists ought to be put in a position, as soon as possible, to provide a religious establishment for themselves by those means.
 Viscount Sandon  trusted the dean and chapter of Westminster would attend to the suggestions which had been thrown out, and he believed that some alteration was intended to be made.
 Viscount Sandon : Yes, twice.
 Viscount Sandon  should regret to see 40,000 l.
 Viscount Sandon  denied that the improvement of the Shannon was a job. He felt bound, in justice to a noble Lord who was absent, to say, that having ascertained some years ago, in Liverpool, that it would be an object of great importance to fourteen counties to improve the navigation of the Shannon, he (Viscount Sandon) urged the subject upon the attention of the then Chancellor of the Exchequer (the present Lord Monteagle), who was at length by dint of persuasion induced to adopt means for carrying out the work. He for one believed the improvement would be found of more real value to Ireland, than all the railroads that had been projected.
 Mr. Villiers  said, that were the Government to resolve upon a measure admitting Australian corn into this country, he was sure that his hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth would withdraw his opposition to the present Bill. Considering the great change which had come over the opinions of country gentlemen, he did hope that they would make some demonstration of their readiness to acquiesce in so reasonable a measure.
 Mr. Hawes  protested against the Bill, which was in the teeth of their Governor's recommendations, and inefficient in itself. They were going to great and unwarrantable expenses for the sake of their convict population, at the time that they would not open to the produce of the Colony the only market accessible to it.
 Mr. Hawes  observed that the Bill seemed to proceed on the assumption that there was a redundancy of convict population, and that it was necessary to find profitable employment for them. How was it that a Colony with so much redundant labour, and having such abundance of good land, should be in a state of distress? How could they account for this anomaly? And what was the remedy here proposed? The repeal of an Act of Parliament, the policy of which nobody had ever questioned. It was the most unnecessary piece of legislation he had ever seen. It stood self-condemned, and if he could get a seconder, he would divide against the Bill. He moved that the House will on this day month resolve itself into the said Committee.
 Mr. Hope  said, he had reason to believe that the dissatisfaction which had been expressed in Ceylon had, in a great degree, subsided.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  defended the Bill, the effect of which would be to provide profitable employment for the redundant labour of the Colony. Six thousand convicts had been employed at the charge of this country, in works of irrigation and other public works, by which the value of the lands in the Colony had been increased; and it was no more than common justice, therefore, that in the benefit derived from the sale of the waste lands, the means of reimbursing ourselves for that outlay should be allowed. Another advantage which would result from the measure was, that it would give to the stockholders of New South Wales a tenure on better terms than that they now enjoyed. With regard to the suggestion of his hon. Friend the Member for Droitwich (Mr. Pakington), he could assure him that the Government was as anxious as he could possibly be to provide for the spiritual destitution of the inhabitants of these Colonies; but they felt that if to effect that object they proceeded in opposition to the feelings of the colonists, they would do more harm than good.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, that the civil servants of the Government, in Ceylon, would be afforded the fullest information without delay; and they should have had that sooner but the Governor was obliged to wait until he obtained some detailed information from England. The time of election had been extended from six months to a year, and the time allowed for the disposal of property was fixed at two years. With regard to the third and most important question put by the hon. Member (as it was necessary to wait for some information from Ceylon) still he thought an arrangement might be made which would prove satisfactory to the civil servants. He was happy to add that the dissatisfaction which prevailed at the first issuing of the Minute had much diminished.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose to move the Address of which he had given notice, praying that Her Majesty would grant a sum not exceeding 20,000 l. 1300 1301 l.
 Mr. Tufnell  felt great satisfaction at hearing the answer of the hon. Gentleman, and he had only to add that he hoped as little as possible would be left to the discretion of the Governor of Ceylon.
 Mr. Tufnell  wished to put a few questions on the subject of Ceylon to the Under Secretary of the Colonies, in consequence of the numerous representations that had been made to him, since the debate of Friday last, from the friends and connexions of the civil servants of that Colony; amongst whom the conduct of the Government had produced the greatest anxiety. He asked, first, at what period the six months were to commence, during which the civil servants were to make their election, either to retain their offices or their lands? Whether the term of two years for the disposal of the landed property was definitely settled? And, lastly, which was of the greatest importance, whether civil servants might be allowed to retain their lands, provided they gave up
 1286
 Mr. Warburton  would second the hon. Member.
 Mr. Hume  said, the present measure had nothing whatever to do with New Zealand. He should vote against the Bill, and condemned the policy of the Government towards our Australian Colonies, as calculated to retard the prosperity of those Colonies, and stop emigration.
 Mr. Hume  moved an addition to the 13th Clause, that costs should be allowed to informers, as between attorneys and clients, in all actions that were suspended under the operation of this Bill.
 Mr. Robert Scott  supported the measure, which, he said, was brought forward to assist a most deserving class of persons in a distant Colony. The opposition had arisen from the monopolising jealousy of the New Zealand Company.
 Mr. Milner Gibson  would support the Amendment were it pressed to a division. The Government would not allow the settlers to bring their produce to the best market. As to the speech of the hon. Member for Droitwich, he thought it was very much out of place. It was food and clothing that the settlers wanted rather than spiritual instruction.
 Mr. M. Gibson  wished to make one or two remarks before this stage of the Bill had passed; and in addition to these, he was desirous of putting a question to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government with respect to the Bill. He had given the measure the fullest consideration, and he had looked to the opinions of those who were competent judges, and he was unable as yet to regard the measure in a favourable light, in any point of view in which he regarded it. It appeared to him very questionable whether, according to international law, they could make the provisions of the Bill binding on Brazilian subjects; and if it were, he did not think that it was calculated to assist the course of policy which we were desirous of carrying out with respect to the Slave Trade. It seemed to him to be a dangerous doctrine to set up proclamations instead of law. It
 1287 dictum dictum 1288
 Captain Pechell  thought that this Bill introduced anew principle in dealing with all vessels equipped for the Slave Trade, and which were to be adjudicated upon by our Vice-Admiralty courts.
 Sir James Graham  said, that the convicts had been employed at the expense of this country in cultivating lands in the Colony. These lands had afterwards been sold, one half of the proceeds being devoted to the promotion of emigration. As, however, the supply of labour had began to exceed the demand, it was now proposed to devote the produce of the sales to the expenses of the Colony, with a view of reducing the general taxation in this country.
 Sir J. Graham  was sure that the House and the country would be greatly indebted to his hon. and learned Friend, who was a gentleman of great experience and legal knowledge, for devoting his time and abilities to a matter of such great importance, not only to the poor, who suffered extremely from removal, but also to the country generally, to whom these removals caused great expense. He should readily give his most anxious attention to the measure. The fact that it had emanated from his learned Friend, was a proof that it would embrace a great practical knowledge of the subject, and that it would conduce to an early and satisfactory arrangement of the question. The Law of Settlement as it at present stood was, he thought, most injurious and unsatisfactory; but he knew that the greatest possible difference of opinion existed as to the means which should be adopted for amending it. He himself could not, of course, propose any amendment which in his conscience and judgment he did not think would be effective. In his opinion, parochial settlements, small township and parish settlements, were the very root of the evil; at the same time, he knew that many persons believed, on the contrary, that it would be nothing less than sacrilege to interfere with those small settlements. However, he should be most happy to attend to the measure now introduced, which was limited to the subject of removal, though, in his opinion—and he thought it would
 1304
 Mr. Pakington  supported the Bill, and urged upon the Government the necessity of providing more effectual religious instruction for the emigrants. The Government had granted 30,000 l. 1298
 Sir Robert Peel  moved the Order of the Day for receiving the Report of the Slave Trade Brazils Bill.
 Sir R. Peel  thanked the hon. Member for having given him an intimation of his intention to ask this question. He was quite confident that the hon. Member would not take advantage of the late period of the Session to defeat this measure. It was true that he postponed the Bill on a former occasion, in order to have an opportunity of maturely weighing a suggestion of an hon. Member, by whom no suggestion could be made which would not be worthy of attention. He had postponed the Bill till that day in order to have an opportunity of further deliberation, and having the opinion of the highest authority upon the subject; and he hoped that the delay caused in that manner would not prejudice the measure at this period of the Session. He could assure the hon. Gentleman that he had given the most mature consideration to the Bill; and that, having, in addition to that, taken the opinion of the highest authority on the subject, his opinion remained unaltered with respect to it. According to the opinion of that authority to which he had referred, under the First Article of the Convention of 1826, the Sovereign of this country might consider the carrying on of the Slave Trade, on the part of Brazilian subjects, an act of piracy. The First Article of that Convention was to the effect, that after the expiration of three years, to be reckoned from the exchange of the rati-
 1289 1290 M. Gibson:
 Sir R. Peel  moved an additional clause.
 Mr. W. H. Bodkin , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the laws relating to the settlement of the poor in England and Wales, begged permission to state shortly the objects which he had in view, more in the hope that the House would permit him to bring in his Bill, and thus enable him to have it printed and circulated throughout the country during the recess, than with any hope of being able to proceed further than the present stage at present. He did not propose, as was contemplated by the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary, to make any alteration in the present Law of Settlement. His object was to mitigate, if not to remove entirely, two very serious and very pressing evils which were found to exist under the present administration of the Poor Laws, in so far as the removal of paupers was concerned, and likewise in regard to the adjudication of disputed settlements. Under the present law a great deal of unnecessary hardship was inflicted by the immediate removal of persons from a parish to which they became chargeable by
 1302 1303
 Mr. Hutt  said, he looked upon this Bill as of an important character, and as a measure dealing with a very difficult and delicate subject. If it should hereafter appear, that we had not a sound and legal basis for our proceedings, difficulties should arise from this measure, and they be referred for adjustment, as other difficulties had been, to a foreign Sovereign, if that foreign Sovereign should decide that we were in the wrong, he was sure that such a result would be contemplated by every one in that House with feelings of the deepest regret. He doubted very much, if we were not proceeding, in regard to this measure, somewhat too fast. When the right hon. Baronet stated, that persons of the highest legal authority concurred with him in the view which he had taken of the Treaty of 1826, he very much doubted whether the right hon. Baronet had good ground on which to stand; and if he had not known that the views which he entertained were the views of men better qualified than he was to judge upon the subject, he would not have ventured to say a single word upon the present occasion; but, fortified as he was with the opinions of others, whose opinions he thought entitled to deference and respect, he would venture to suggest whether we might not now be proceeding rather precipitately. The right hon. Gentlemen called their attention to the First Article in the Treaty. There were two points in that Article. The first was, that the two countries should consider the Slave Trade as unlawful; and the second, that Brazilians engaged in that trade should be deemed and treated as pirates. He should have supposed that the natural construction of this Article was, that those found so employed should be deemed and treated by their own Government as pirates, subject to the penalties laid down by their own municipal laws. The executive authorities of the two countries entered into this Treaty. If, by such a Treaty, the subjects of Great Britain,
 1295 R. Peel: 1296 casus belli.
 Mr. Duncombe  said, that he had, a short time ago, presented a petition to the House, complaining of the practice which existed in the workhouse at Mansfield. By the New Poor Law any person seeking nightly
 1320
 Mr. Baillie Cochrane  said, it was now only two years since a change took place in Greece which astonished the whole of Europe. He did not use the term "revolution," because the people themselves disclaimed it, declaring that they had only asserted their just and unalterable rights. He was no advocate for appeals to the people, or declarations of right; but he conceived that to Greece must be applied very different principles to those which should regulate other European organizations. She had shaken off the yoke of Turkey, and whatever might be our opinion of the advantage of preserving the integrity of the Ottoman empire, she had exercised her sovereignty of Greece with as much violence as she had used in its attainment. The independence of Greece was acknowledged in most flattering terms by the great Powers. They were supposed to be consulted in the selection of a Sovereign. Every proclamation exhorted the Greeks to rally round their glorious constitution, to cherish their liberties. King Otho was received with all the enthusiastic confidence of a people who, when they lost their original power, still retained their original greatness of mind. It was a glorious dawn for a young nation. Every heart warmed at the idea of giving back happiness to that country to which we were indebted for the first rudiments of art and civilization. But the feeling was very general, that no man ever ascended the throne under happier auspices. His own language on assuming the Government was, "Place your trust in me, O Greeks, as I place mine in you; then will your happiness and intelligence be augmented." He would in courtesy extend to the King of Greece the same great elemental principle, that "the King can do no wrong," which was the basis of constitutional monarchy; nor would he be wanting in that respectful language which should always be heard at the footstool of the throne in the few remarks with which he should trouble the House. He should assume that the King, equally with the people, was the victim of a low intriguer—the victim of M. Coletti. That was not an exaggerated term. He would appeal to any hon. Member who was in communication with Greece, whether the accounts from that country of M. Coletti's conduct
 1331 "After having presented this statement to the Minister, it is now my duty to observe to him, that it is absolutely essential the Government should take prompt and efficacious means to remedy this state of things, or otherwise I request the Government to accept my resignation; because it is repugnant to me to remain in the government of a province where the other officers in command, whether designedly or unintentionally, exercise such gross violence, that they excite the population to acts of rebellion, compel them to take up arms against the Government—anything to relieve themselves from that oppression, personal, material, and moral, with which these officers endeavour to crush them." 1332 1333 "You placed me in the most enviable position in the world—that of receiving the approbation of my conduct by the Prime Minister and my countrymen. It was, indeed, the proudest moment of my life when I read that the mention of my name was received with approbation there, and which so amply repaid my wounded feelings. I wish I could convey my feelings in a suitable manner to Sir R. Peel and the Members of the House." 1334 casus belli,
 Mr. C. Buller  wished to put a question, and he owed an apology, perhaps, to the House for not having brought forward a Motion upon the subject, but he should be excused for having taken the simpler and the speedier mode of getting information upon it, by asking a question of the hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Treasury. The question which he had to put related to a petition which he had some time since presented to the House, from a lady of the name of King, complaining that, although her income was under 150 l.
 Mr. B. Wall  was understood to say, that the Committee would not have done their duty if they had acted upon a different system. He must be allowed to affirm, without the least disrespect to the individual who had complained of breathless haste, that the great railway power was not in existence at the time the Great Western or South Western was before Parliament. He was quite sure the Committee had done right in coming to the decision they had come to, and thought the House would exercise a sound judgment in not agreeing to the Motion.
 Mr. Cardwell  said, that before the petitition alluded to was presented by the hon. Gentleman, the case of Mrs. King had received the attention both of the Commissioners at Somerset House and of the Treasury. The case had been brought before the Commissioners, to whom, by law, cases of this kind were left; and they, after the fullest investigation, were perfectly satisfied that the claim of Mrs. King to a return of the duty had not been substantiated; and upon further inquiry made by himself into the case, he had every reason to believe that the decision come to by the Commissioners was supported by the strongest evidence. With regard to the complaint as to the vexation and annoyance which the petitioner alleged that she had sustained from the conduct of the officers, he had also investigated that charge, and believed that it was entirely without foundation.
 Mr. Darby  hoped the House would look at what the system of grouping was, before they came to a decision that the Committee had exercised an improper discretion. He believed that the system of grouping was the best that could have been adopted under the circumstances; but you must abandon that system altogether unless you allowed the Committee to deal with the groups. The hon. Member for Sheffield had totally mistaken the principle on which the groups were formed, and that mistake ran through the whole of his speech. A certain number of Bills were referred, and then it was decided which were competing  inter se.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer,  on withdrawing the Joint Stock Banks (Scotland and Ireland) Bill, stated that he should bring forward a general measure on the subject next Sesson, for the purpose of rendering joint-stock banks in Scotland and Ireland subject to the re-
 1340
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  had no doubt that the Committee on Group X believed they had discharged their duty according to the rules and practice of the House, and in justice to the parties; but the question was, whether the practice of this Committee was consistent with the practice of other Committees? If Group X had acted according to the principle which the House wished the Committee to adopt, then every other Committee had acted wrong. The Committee of which he was a Member did
 1318
 Mr. P. Scrope  said, as he had voted against the preamble of the Bill, it might, be inferred that he was not violently opposed to the recommittal of the Bill. With regard to the course of proceeding, the Committees were involved in great difficulty. Eleven different and important railway schemes were committed to them: the map of the country, which was laid before them, looked more like a spider's web than anything else; and every one of the eleven were competing lines, in a greater or less degree, with the London and York line; so that the Committee would have had very great difficulty in grouping the lines. The only fault alleged against the Committee was, that they had not heard rebutting evidence against the London and York line. Now, they had occupied no less than ten days in hearing rebutting evidence against that line from the Cambridge and Lincoln line. The Committee thought enough of time had been devoted to that part of the case, and they were of opinion that the other parties were not likely to bring forward anything that was new. Although he had differed from his Colleagues upon the preamble, he was quite agreed with them in regard to the course of proceeding which was adopted; and he saw no ground for referring the Bill back to the Bill.
 Mr. Wakley : Will the right hon. Baronet deem it his duty, after the statement which he had now made, to inquire into the subject?
 Mr. Wakley  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet if he had received any information from the Poor Law Commissioners relative to a practice which he understood to prevail in the Union of Andover in Hampshire. He understood that one of the guardians of the Union had complained to the Poor Law Commissioners that the paupers of the Union were employed in crushing bones, and that, while so employed, they were in
 1321
 Mr. W. R. Collett  had great confidence in the Committee; but he must protest against the decision they had arrived at, and would vote for the recommittal of the Bill.
 Mr. Ward  rose, pursuant to notice, to move, that the Bill be recommitted. It was with great pain that he ventured to trouble the House upon the present occasion to reconsider the decision that had been come to with respect to the present measure. It was hardly possible at any time to induce the House to reconsider a decision of any kind, and that difficulty was greatly increased in dealing with the decision of a Committee that had sat for no less than seventy-three days; under such circumstances nothing would have induced him to appeal to the House, except a conviction that he had one of the strongest causes that was ever brought before the House. If the Committee had had time to hear all the parties concerned, nothing would have induced him to have brought forward the subject. He admitted that the Committee had been most persevering in its labours, but it had done great injustice to several parties, and had come to most improper decisions, without hearing facts; and adjudicated upon the rights of parties, without hearing the parties themselves, The Report itself bore evident marks of the pressure which the Committee felt, to get through the task imposed upon it at the present period of the Session. He appeared there to argue the claims of the York and North Midland, the Midland Counties, and the Eastern Counties Lines, which had been decided without those parties having been heard. He was told that it was a difficult matter to dispute with a great trunk line, such as the London and York; but the other lines had a right to consider themselves a great trunk line, and they had so considered themselves. They expected to be allowed to show the Committee that they could effect a communication with York, at a saving of a million and a half. If they could show this, and they could prove that they had al-
 1310 pro formâ, Darby: Courtenay: 1311 1312 l. l. 1313
 Sir James Graham,  could not believe in the existence of such an abuse as was embodied in the statement just made. The House must have heard that statement with horror. He himself had never heard any statement similar to that which the hon. Gentleman had made. Had the facts alleged been true he was quite satisfied that they would have been represented to him, and had they been so represented, he would have insisted on the fullest investigation of them. He would again repeat, that he could not believe that such an abuse existed, otherwise he should have heard of it.
 Sir James Graham  said, that in consequence of what had fallen in March last from the hon. Gentleman, in reference to this subject, the Poor Law Commissioners had communicated with the Poor Law Guardians of the Union in question, about the illegality of the application of labour to machinery, the working of which yielded nothing. He thought, with them, that such employment of labour was of a penal character, and that it was neither within the spirit nor the letter of the New Poor Law Amendment Act. The first communication had not, it appeared, led to the discontinuance of this mode of employing labour, which led to a peremptory order being subsequently sent by the Poor Law Commissioners for its immediate discontinuance.
 Sir James Graham : Most certainly; I shall institute an inquiry this very night.
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, I quite admit to the noble Lord that this country does stand in special and peculiar relations towards Greece. We are responsible for the foundation of that kingdom, which was established on the separation of Greece from Turkey, and upon that account this country must always feel a special interest in the prosperity and good government of Greece. We are also guarantees of the integrity of that kingdom, and we are, therefore, specially answerable that the course of Government in that country shall be such as not to provoke just reclamations from other Powers, and submit us to the obligation of defending Greece from the attacks of foreign countries. We stand also in another relation to Greece—the relation of a public creditor. We have advanced the money of this country towards the establishment
 1335 1336 1337 1338 1339
 Mr. Hutt  seconded the Motion, and thought the House had good reason to be dissatisfied with the decision of the Committee. As to the proceedings of the Committee, he did not wonder that they felt their physical energies giving way under the overwhelming mass of business before them; it was scarcely to be expected that their strength should keep up against such accumulating matters, and to that circumstance might be, perhaps, attributed their unwillingness to adopt a course more consonant with the regulations of the House. But to whatever cause it was to be attributed, their proceedings were scarcely consistent with the rules of Parliament, or the justice of the case. It was very true that, as yet, they had not concluded their labours, but virtually and effectually they had with regard to the present Bill. The House, when it nominated certain Members to inquire into a case, necessarily required that some report should be presented on each particular Bill, but at the present moment several Bills had been disposed of without a hearing, or the slightest consideration, as much as if they had never appeared before the Committee at all. For these reasons, he considered it his duty to support the Motion of his hon. Friend for the recommittal of the Bill.
 Lord Courtenay  said, that as Chairman of the Committee to which those
 1314 1315 1316 inter se
 Viscount Courtenay  moved the consideration of the Report of the Committee on the London and York Railway.
 Viscount Palmerston  said: Sir, in making the observations which I am about to submit to the House relative to the kingdom of Greece, I feel that I cannot claim the attention of the House on the ground that the subject which I am going to bring under its consideration concerns either the military or the political interests of the country, or its commercial or even its pecuniary interests, to any very considerable extent. Politically, we have no interests worth mentioning with regard to the kingdom of Greece. That State is not sufficiently important to form an essential element in the general balance of European power; we have, therefore, no peculiar political interest with respect to the kingdom of Greece. The commerce of Greece cannot by any possibility be very extensive, and, therefore, we can have no commercial or selfish interests there to maintain. In a pecuni-
 1322 1323 1324 1325 1326 1327 1328 Regere imperio populos. 1329 1330
 Mr. B. Denison  said, that the hon. Member for Lambeth had done him the honour to show him the petition. It was quite impossible for him to say whether the signatures were correctly stated or not; one signature, however, did catch his eye, and that was the signature of a most respectable solicitor residing in London, who, although it was stated that he was not competent to pay his subscription contract, was, to his knowledge, perfectly competent to pay six times the sum standing opposite his name. The name was Michael Thomas Baxter. This proceeding had been going on for some days, and he held in his hand a circular signed by a person who called himself a parliamentary agent.
 Mr. B. Denison  replied that he objected to it, and he also objected to the Motion of which the hon. Member had given notice. Supposing all that was contained in the petition to be true, there was another tribunal before which the subscription deed would go, which was competent to inquire into it; and he submitted that this was a wrong time to bring forward a petion of this sort, and he hoped the House would not lend itself to this mode of stopping the further progress of the Bill. He had not the slightest objection to the accuracy of the deed being inquired into; he was willing, if there were fictitious
 1360
 Mr. Bernal  knew nothing of this line, but he knew enough of railways to say that with all the safeguards which the House might think proper to adopt, they could not put a stop to stockjobbing; they could not put an end to gambling day by day, and the mischief that must arise from such a system as this. He had no doubt that the hon. Member was convinced of the truth of the facts stated in the petition; but let it be recollected that he came later than the eleventh hour. If he thought that he was depriving the hon. Member of his remedy, he would not oppose his Motion; but there was another tribunal more competent than the House of Commons, and if they refused this Motion, they did not deprive the parties of any relief to which they might be entitled. The House of Lords could examine witnesses upon oath—an advantage which the
 1362
 Mr. B. Denison  then moved that the London and York Railway Bill be read a Third Time,
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, in answer to the question from Mr. Moffatt, it was perfectly true that the anticipations he had entertained and expressed in answer to a question from the hon. Member for Montrose in 1842, to the effect that the new Houses would be ready by this time, had been disappointed; but he begged to remind the House that no great public building, either in this country or any other, had ever made so rapid a progress as the new Houses had done; and when attacks were made upon the architect, he could answer for that gentleman that the attacks made upon him some time ago had rendered him so anxious, that for two months he was obliged to retire from London in order to recruit his health, so keenly did he feel the imputations that had been thrown upon his personal honour in the accusations that had been made against him of not having kept his word. The House of Lords, there was no doubt, would be in a fit state for the occupation of their Lordships at the commencement of the Session of 1847. The House of Commons could be prepared by that time, but not without considerable difficulty, and he was not prepared to say that it would be advisable for the House to insist on its being ready so soon. But the central hall and other parts of the building necessary for the communication between the two Houses, would not be ready by then; and, therefore it would be for the House next Session to consider what it would be best to do. The committee-rooms would be prepared by the commencement of the Session of 1847.
 Mr. Cowper  said, the statement of the right hon. Baronet must be gratifying to the House. The reduction of the charge of admission to the Abbey had only tended to render the edifice more of a show-place than it was before. When the charge of admission was high, persons were allowed to walk in and go where they chose; but when a reduction was made, the persons admitted were assembled to the number of twelve, and they then went round, accompanied by a showman, who, in the vulgar manner adopted by exhibitors of waxworks, described the interesting monuments and relics in the building. He
 1376
 Mr. Williams  wished the right hon. Baronet had compelled the deans and chapters of Westminster and St. Paul's to give the public free admission to those edifices, for he would thereby have removed the stain upon the character of the clergy which attached to them under the present system of requiring fees. He believed the clergy of the Established Church were the only body in this country who demanded fees for the exhibition of their religious edifices. The cathedrals were public property, and did not belong exclusively to the clergy, who derived large revenues from their exhibition. He hoped his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume) would not relax in his laudable efforts to obtain admission for the public to all cathedrals without the payment of any fee.
 Lord J. Russell  said: Sir, the question now before the House is, whether the House shall think proper to take any notice of a transaction with respect to which a Committee has laid a Report before the House; or whether the House shall entirely pass it by? The hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, and who moved the previous question, says, that this is a painful subject. No doubt it is a painful subject, as all accusations involving the character of individuals must be; but the question really for the House to consider, is, whether, because it is a painful subject, they can altogether avoid expressing any opinion upon it, and whether it is not due to the character of the House and to public justice that some Resolution of this kind should be passed? There is no doubt that every case of a Resolution of censure—that every case of impeachment, especially, which is brought before this House, imposes on it a painful duty; but if it is a question on which the House is bound to express an opinion, its being a painful duty is no reason whatever why we should endeavour to evade it, and to shrink from the performance of that which the Constitution has made it incumbent on us to perform. The right hon. Gentleman has stated, that it is very unfortunate that my hon. Friend should have brought forward this Motion so late in the Session. I own, I hardly expected that that would be brought as a reproach against my hon. Friend. As soon as I perceived that a Report was coming into this House, I asked my hon. Friend, if he were not going to take some notice of it? He replied, that he thought it right to wait a week, that you might have full time to deliberate and to decide upon the course which you might think right? I thought that my hon. Friend took a just and proper determination—it was a determination of forbearance towards the Executive Government, and I thought he acted rightly. But it is now made a reproach to my hon. Friend. ["No, no."] It is now, I say, made a reproach to my hon. Friend, that he did not ten days ago, bring forward this Motion. That is the charge which the right hon. Gentleman thinks it decent to bring against my hon. Friend. Why, it was necessary, as my hon. Friend had waited so long, that he should then ascer-
 1395 1396 l. 1397 "Be it declared and enacted, that the payment or gift of any sum of money to any voter before or after any election, or to any person on his behalf, or to any person related to him by birth or affinity, on account of such voter having voted, or refrained from voting, whether paid under the name of head money, or under any name whatsoever, the same shall be deemed to be bribery." l. l. 1398 l. l. l. 1399 l. 1400 1401 l. 1402
 Mr. Scott  wished for the names of the places at which the Commissioners met. In some places they met at public-houses, in portions of the country not populous. At Wolverhampton, the people had to go five miles distance, to the great public inconvenience. It was also remarked that the Commissioners were generally of one line of politics.
 Mr. Hawes  rose amidst cries of "divide," "divide." He said that he would detain the House but for a moment, in adverting to one or two points, which he thought it his duty to refer to, before the vote was taken. The right hon. Gentleman opposite fell into an error, in stating that there was an alteration effected in the Report of the Committee, and that words which imported that Mr. Wray should be dismissed were struck out, and that milder terms had been substituted in their stead. The words which first stood in the Report were to the effect that "the conduct of Mr. Wray deserved the immediate notice of the Secretary of State;" and the words substituted were, that "conduct deserved
 1416 1417
 Mr. Hawes,  in explanation, would state to the House the facts relative to the alteration of the Report, without making any comment. The original draught of the Report, as framed by himself in his capacity of Chairman of the Select Committee, said, with reference to Mr. Wray, that "such conduct deserved the immediate notice of the Secretary of State for the Home Department." Some objection was taken by a Member of the Committee to the introduction of the mention of the Secretary of State in the Report. It was urged that the duty confided to the Committee was to examine into the matters referred to them, and to report the facts to the House; and it was then proposed that, in lieu of drawing the attention of the Home Secretary to the conduct of Mr. Wray, the words "serious animadversion" should be substituted. He confessed that he was of opinion at the time that this expression was far more severe than that which he had originally proposed, but at the same time he did not think it was more severe than the circumstances called for.
 Mr. Hawes,  in rising to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice, could assure the House that it was not without considerable pain that he felt it necessary to call their attention to a portion of the Report of the Committee on the petition of the South-Eastern Railway Company. He had hoped that Her Majesty's Ministers would have spared him the trouble of making, and the House the pain of listening to, the statement of facts to which he now felt it his duty to call their attention. He knew little or nothing of the gentleman whose conduct he was about to bring under their notice. He had no personal feeling whatever towards that gentleman, and he was not aware that, except in his capacity as a public officer, he had ever spoken to him. But, after the notice which the conduct of Mr. Wray had received from the right hon. Home Secretary, he considered it his imperative duty to ask the House and the country to decide whether the strong disapprobation the right hon. Baronet stated he had expressed with regard to Mr. Wray's conduct was a sufficient punishment for the offence that gentleman had committed. It might be said this was a late period of the Session for bringing forward a question of this nature; but he must remind the House that the Report of the Committee to which he had referred was not laid on the Table until the 12th of July. The matter was then left entirely in the hands of the Government; but it was not till the 19th of July that the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) addressed a letter to Mr. Wray—that being the same day on which he (Mr. Hawes) had written to the First Lord of the Treasury (Sir R. Peel), intimating his intention to bring the Report under the notice of the House. The letter of the right hon. Home Secretary to Mr. Wray was not printed till the 22d of July, and he thought the House would admit that it was next to impossible for him to have brought this subject under their consideration at an earlier period. He (Mr. Hawes) wished also, before he took such a step, to obtain the sanction of others to whose judgment he greatly deferred; and this circumstance had alone prevented him from instantly calling the attention of the House to the Report. Now, what had been the conduct of Mr. Wray? The Committee, he might observe, were una-
 1378 l. 1379 "That the offer of money or any other advantage to any Member of Parliament as a fee or reward for him to promote the furtherance of any matter depending, or to be transacted in Parliament, is a high crime and misdemeanor, and tends to the subversion of the English Constitution." "Mr. Bird attended according to order, and was called in, and being at the bar was told by the Speaker that there had been a complaint made against him to this House for offering money to Mr. Musgrove, a Member of this House, to present a petition to this House. Whereunto he said, that some persons did apprehend that a Bill depending in this House for selling an estate, late of Mr. Howland, did affect their interest in part of that estate, and therefore desired him to prepare a petition to be presented to this House for the providing for their interest, which accordingly he did; and that he being a stranger to the proceedings of this House, and there being a title in the case, and knowing Mr. Musgrove to be a gentleman of the long robe, did intend to give him a guinea for his advice in that matter; but understanding by Mr. Musgrove that he had committed an error in so doing, he begged pardon of Mr. Musgrove, and as he did now of this House, and then withdrew. Resolved, that the said Mr. Bird be called in, and that Mr. Speaker do reprimand him upon his knees at the bar. And he was called in, and upon his knees reprimanded accordingly, and then discharged." 1380 "That the taking in or holding of stock by the South Sea Company for the benefit of any Member of either House of Parliament, or person concerned in the Administration (during the time that the Company's proposals, or the Bill thereto relating, were depending in Parliament), without any valuable consideration paid, or sufficient security given for the acceptance of or the payment for such stock, and the Company's paying or allowing such person the difference arising by the advanced price of the stock, were corrupt, infamous, and dangerous practices, and highly reflecting on the honour and justice of Parliament, and destructive of the interest of His Majesty's Government." "It is resolved by the Lords Spiritual and Temporal in Parliament assembled, that the taking of stock belonging to the South Sea Company, or giving credit for the same without a valuable consideration actually paid or sufficiently secured, or the purchasing stock by any director or agent of the South Sea Company for the use or benefit of any person in the Administration, or any Member of either House of Parliament, during such time as the late Bill relating to the South Sea Company was depending last year in Parliament, was a notorious and most dangerous corruption." 1381 "That it appears from the Report and Evidence laid before this House by the Select Committee on the South Eastern Railway Company's Petition, that Mr. Wray, the Receiver of the Metropolitan Police District, was, in the year 1836, the retained and paid agent of a private Company, to promote the success of a Bill introduced into Parliament on their behalf. That it also appears, from an Answer to an Address of this House, that the Secretary of State for the Home Department has, in consequence of the Report and Evidence referred to, addressed a letter to Mr. Wray, expressing his strong disapprobation of Mr. Wray's conduct. That it appears to this House, upon a reference to the Evidence, that Mr. Wray, on behalf of the South Eastern Railway Company, paid the sum of 300 l., 1382
 Mr. Hawes  would take that opportunity of answering a question which had been put to him by the hon. Gentleman. Before the Committee of the House of Lords it had been said that the subscription list of the London and York Company was unimpeachable, and it was only on Thursday last that the petitioner had been made aware that such was not the fact, and he was still pursuing his inquiries. He fully believed that the Standing Orders' Committee were afforded no opportunity of looking into the matter—all the companies had joined in a compromise so that each should abstain from impeaching the subscription list of the other. The parties who waited upon him were respectable, and he believed that the allegations they had made were true, and, as far as he was concerned, he would assist them in sifting the matter to the bottom.
 Mr. Hawes  did not think that the hon. Member had assigned any good grounds for opposing the printing of the petition. The hon. Member said that the petitioner had used improper means to make various inquiries. He knew nothing of the parties who were promoting the line, or who were opposing it. He had had no sort of communication, direct or indirect, with them. This petition had been brought to him by a most respectable gentleman, and was signed by a most respectable gentleman. He was informed that the gross sum impugned by the petitioners amounted to 658,000 l. l. l. 1361 l. l.; l., l.
 Mr. Hawes  presented a petition from the Chairman of the Cambridge and Lincoln Railway Company, a gentleman who stated that he had an interest in the London and York Railway. The object of the petition was to impute very extensive frauds in the concoction of the subscription list. The petitioner stated that his attention and the attention of other parties was only called to this subject on Thursday last, and that
 1359 bonâ fides
 Mr. B. Escott  would not vote for the Motion if he felt it implied any censure on the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the view he had taken of the case; for he felt that the most honourable and upright men might have taken a lenient view of the matter. He also thought
 1415
 The Speaker : Does the hon. Member object to the petition being printed with the Votes?
 Mr. Darby  stated, that the original share list was before the Committee; that every word of the deed was discussed and commented upon, and yet not a hint was thrown out against the responsibility of the shareholders.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  regretted that the hon. Gentleman had not mentioned to him before coming down to the House that he was about to put the question, as he (Mr. G. W. Hope) would then have been able to give him more than a general answer. All he could say at present was, that the New Zealand Company had made fresh proposals to the noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Office; that he himself (Mr. G. W. Hope) had seen deputations from the Company two or three times on those proposals; they had also seen a third person at the Colonial Office on the subject; and that those proposals were still under the consideration of the Colonial Office.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, that the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies had stated, in the despatches to which the hon. Gentleman had referred, that on pressing representations from the West India Colonies, he should not object to the passing of Loan Ordinances, if they deemed them advisable. Those Ordinances had been passed in two or three of the Colonies, whilst others had taken the necessary means of providing for such immigration without resorting to Loan Ordinances.
 Mr. Aglionby : The House and the country were very much deceived if they thought that the Standing Orders of the House afforded any sufficient protection against frauds of the description pointed out in the petition. When Bills went before the Committee upon petitions, the agents mutually agreed to wave all dispute upon the subscription lists, well knowing that any inquiry would most probably be fatal to all the Bills. He believed that frauds which had been practised upon the House during the present Session had been very flagrant, and he was most anxious that they should be able to find some mode of checking them. In respect to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Bath, he trusted there were many more than six hon. Members who were not tainted with the railway mania; for himself he had no connexion with any railway whatever, nor would he ever have, while the House chose to place him in the responsible and judicial situation of a Member of the Standing Orders' Committee.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed that an order had been made, on the Motion of the hon. Member for Manchester, for a return of the names of the Commissioners under the Income Tax, and the number of their attendances, but as it was found that this could not be conveniently made, he would now move to discharge it.
 Mr. Tufnell  asked whether William Mays, who had been convicted, at the Northampton Lent Assizes, of an assault, with intent to do grievous bodily harm to a gamekeeper, was to be pardoned or not?
 Mr. Fielden  said, that there could be no difficulty in getting such a return He then objected to the present mode of assessment. When a party made a return, and that return was objected to, the Commissioners never furnished him with any reason why they doubted the return, although it was made upon oath. This was both scandalous and unjust. He had been so treated, and he knew others who had been similarly so. The hon. Member then went into a detail of the circumstances connected with the last appeal made by himself against the assessment made upon him; and assured the House that the question could not rest where it now was, as he would, early next Session, bring forward a Motion upon the subject. He hoped that, in the meantime, the public would be alive to the subject, and that all who, like himself, had been aggrieved, would come forward at the proper time, and cordially co-operate with him.
 Mr. Roebuck  would move that the Bill be read a third time on that day three months, and he did so on the ground that the House had determined that certain things should be done before a Railway Bill should be proceeded in—that a subscription list should be put in, and that it should be a  bonâ fide 1364 Denison
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that the question was, not whether fraud had been practised on the directors of the companies, but whether fraud had been practised on the House of Commons? Some time ago the House had passed an Irish Bill, the famous Galway Bill; that was taken to the House of Lords, and there subjected to a peculiar ordeal. It was discovered, after the House of Commons had passed it, that they had been performing their onerous duties in vain, and that one-half of the list was fictitious. What was sauce for the goose was sauce for the gander; what was law for Ireland, ought to be law for England. The Galway Bill had been turned out for a fraud which was discovered in the House of Lords; but here a fraud was discovered in the House of Commons. It was not proved, certainly; but the House of Commons was now exactly in the position in which the House of Lords was when the fraud was discovered. What did the House of Lords do? They did not say "You have come too late." They said "You have presented a petition which makes such imputations and involves such interests, that we must inquire." When the same imputations were made as to an English Bill, should the House of Commons say, "We will not inquire, let the Lords inquire." Was not this abrogating their functions? It was said that the House of Lords could examine upon oath; but they refused to allow a prosecution for evidence given under that oath. In the case of the Galway Railway, amongst other evidence was that of the secretary to the company, who said that most careful inquiries had been made into the list, and that nobody had been admitted who was not proved to be a respectable person, and yet it turned out that 500,000 l.
 Mr. W. Patten  would vote for the third reading of the Bill, because he considered that it would be unjust to throw it over at that late period of the Session. A Committee had sat eighty days, he believed, upon the Bill; they had fully investigated it, and their labours ought not now to be thrown aside. If the House should agree to do so, he certainly would never serve upon a railway committee, except upon compulsion. He really did not know what measures it was in the power of the House to take to prevent such frauds, if they had not been successful in the case of the London and York line, with which he was wholly unconnected. But, even if the allegations of the petition were true—if the whole 600,000 l. 1365
 Mr. W. Patten  said, that it was impossible to pursue a discussion like the present without inflicting a very serious degree of pain upon many individuals; and if that was the object in view, he should have supposed that the suffering occasioned by the former discussion had been sufficiently severe. He should therefore abstain from entering upon any topic other than that immediately under consideration, namely, the construction to be put upon the Report. He must, however, be permitted to observe, that as the right hon. Baronet had referred in handsome terms to Mr. Bonham, whose friendship he had not hesitated to claim, so he (Mr. W. Patten) must say with reference to Captain Boldero, that he was guiltless of everything, except indiscretion, in the transactions reported upon; and he fearlessly asserted that his friend Captain Boldero was entirely innocent in the matter. Not one of the Committee had said a word which could affect the honour of Captain Boldero; and he regretted very much, though the circumstance was highly to his credit, that he should have felt called upon to resign his office. The hon. Member for Lambeth had alluded to the unanimity which prevailed in the Committee. Looking to the particular circumstances brought under discussion by him, he thought the hon. Member would have acted somewhat more fairly if he had referred to the Members of the Committee, and have asked their opinions before he brought his Motion before the House. He was bound to express his conviction, that if the Committee had to make their Report over again, they would not convey their opinion in the language stated by the hon. Member. He had taken notes of what had occurred in the Committee, and from their perusal, aided by his own recollection, he must certainly state that the words "serious animadversion" were not intended by the Committee to lead to the course against Mr. Wray recommended to be adopted by the hon. Member for Lambeth. Several circumstances concurred in leading the Committee to adopt a lenient and moderate course—amongst those circumstances the lapse of time since the transactions occurred, and the imperfect recollection of the transactions by Mr. Wray. He must, therefore, repeat his
 1393 1394
 Mr. Hume  called the attention of the House to the practice of exacting fees or receiving gratuities from the public as the condition of their admittance to cathedrals and other public buildings; and moved—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, the practice of exacting fees from the public as the condition of their admittance to cathedrals, is highly improper, and ought to be discontinued."
 Mr. Hume  said, he had heard the statement of the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) with great satisfaction. He hoped the right hon. Baronet would exert his influence to have all other cathedrals, as well as Westminster Abbey, thrown open to the public. He thought the proposed charge of 6 d.
 Mr. Hume  considered that Captain Boldero had been harshly treated. Corruption could not be in any way laid to his charge; and it was against that their animadversion was directed. He felt deep regret for the position in which Mr. Wray was placed; he had known that gentleman for twenty years, and never observed any but the most honourable conduct in him; he felt great pain for the rebuke which Mr. Wray had received on account of the late transaction. So far from thinking that they ought to go further, as his hon. Friend asked them, he thought the animadversion of the right hon. Gentleman sufficient, though he was not prepared to deny its justice. He blamed Mr. Bonham, who ought, from his position, to have been the last man to receive such an indication of the railway company's good opinion; he blamed Mr. Wray for having been the means of carrying out the objects of the company; but he should remark, that the whole case against Mr. Wray ended there. That was the whole extent of it, and he did not believe that it showed any corruption; there had been no previous bargaining between Mr. Wray and Mr. Bonham; and whilst he regretted that Mr. Wray had lent himself to such a proceeding—than which nothing deserved more to be deprecated—yet he thought they had done sufficient in the matter, inasmuch as Mr. Wray and Mr. Bonham had not previously communicated
 1409
 Mr. Borthwick  expressed his gratification at the statement which had just been made by the right hon. Baronet; but he thought the object hon. Gentlemen opposite were anxious to attain would be more effectually secured by the spontaneous good feeling of the clergy, than by any Resolution of the House. His opinion was, that the public ought to have access gratuitously to St. Paul's and Westminster Abbey.
 Mr. P. Howard  asked, whether any, and what, arrangements had been made by the Government with the New Zealand Company, and whether the Government would inform the House more generally what had been done with respect to the Colony itself? It was not desirable that the prorogation should take place without some statement being made public as to what had been done.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the statement of the right hon. Baronet was, that he had given to the composition of the letter to Mr. Wray the utmost care and attention—weighing, in fact, every expression employed in it. He admitted that he had sent for a noble Lord a Member of the Committee—Lord Ashley, he presumed—[Sir  J. Graham: 1388 "Your Committee feel the greatest regret in being obliged to direct the attention of the House to a circumstance which has been disclosed in the course of this investigation, viz., that Mr. Bonham received from the South Eastern Railway Company in the year 1836, at which time he was a Member of the House of Commons, the sum of 300 l. 1389 "I have learnt with regret from this Report, that you were, in the year 1836, while holding a responsible office under Government, retained as a paid agent of a private Company to promote the success of a Bill introduced into Parliament on their behalf; and that you were engaged to canvass Members of the House of Commons in favour of that measure during its progress through Parliament." James Graham: "It now becomes my duty to convey to you my strong disapprobation of the course which you thus pursued. I do not think it necessary, on the present occasion, to express any opinion whether the due performance of the duties of Receiver General of Police might or might not have been, in the first instance, compatible with private practice as a barrister; but I can entertain no doubt that your interference, especially as a paid agent in canvassing Members, must tend to weaken the confidence of the public in the impartiality of the Government, whose officer you are, and materially to impair your efficiency in the performance of the official duties which are entrusted to you." 1390 "In the early part of the Session of 1836, Mr. Wray, to whom I was under considerable obligations (it is not necessary to state them with explicitness), came to me and said, 'I am very much interested in the success of the South Eastern Railway, and I wish you would give us a lift; and I want your advice upon some points.' I said, 'My dear Wray, I owe very great obligations to you, and I will do anything I can to serve you,' He said, 'I should be very much obliged to you if you would.' And upon that, I have not the least hesitation in stating that I did all I could individually to assist Mr. Wray in the object he had in view; that is, in plain terms, I did what I could to assist him in passing that Bill, both in and out of Parliament. Mr. Wray never held out to me one word, nor did any conversation ever take place, as to any advantage of any kind or sort that I was to derive from it. I considered it a great personal advantage; I mean personal, with reference to the debt of gratitude that I owed him." James Graham: "I can only state again that, as to the transaction itself, there was never, at the time I assisted them, the smallest expectation on my mind of deriving any advantage from it; and of course, when I state this, the Committee will most naturally and properly take care to ascertain that fact from other quarters." 1391 l. "Judex damnatur cum nocens absolvitur." 1392
 Mr. M. Gibson  said, he could not allow that opportunity, which might be the last he should have this Session, to pass without pressing on the attention of the Government one or two matters which had already been mentioned several times this Session in that House, connected with the commercial interests of this country. The first was, the position in which Englishmen now resident in the Brazils were placed. He wished to remind the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government, that the privileges which British subjects resident in the Brazils had enjoyed with reference to the disposal of their property by will, and some other personal rights of great importance, and which expired with the Treaty of November, 1844, had not, although they were enjoyed by the subjects of other foreign countries resident in Brazil, been restored to them. He would, therefore, press particularly on the attention of the right hon. Gentleman, the great importance of endeavouring to procure, that Englishmen resident in the Brazils might at least be in as good a position as the subjects of any Foreign State whatever. At the same time, he did not complain that Englishmen were made subject to Brazilian law. The hon. Member for Salford and himself had received many pressing communications on this subject—one of vital importance to the constituency he represented, as many in that constituency had large property in the Brazils; and he understood that in case of the death of a partner in this country in any of those houses in that country, his goods would be taken possession of by the Brazilian authorities, and would be administered by them, and that large fees, amounting to confiscation of the property, would be exacted. It was understood that an assurance had been given that those privileges would be restored to British subjects, and he believed that Lord Aberdeen was under the impression that a Treaty or arrangement had been come to with the Brazilian Government that British subjects should be placed in the same position as the subjects of France and other foreign countries in reference to those personal rights. The last mails, however, did not bring intelligence that any such negotiation was concluded; and, whether it could be attributed to the unfortunate policy of this country with respect to sugar — to the fact that we had
 1372 1373
 Mr. Mitchell  felt it his duty to vote for the Motion. He did not think it just to Captain Boldero and Mr. Bonham to remove them from office, and suffer Mr. Wray—who, after reading the whole of the evidence, he thought the more guilty—to retain his office. He did not censure the Government for the course they had taken in the matter; but the Committee, he thought, were to blame for the way in which they had acted in this respect.
 Mr. Christie  rose for the purpose of calling the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, to the case of the seven foreigners who were recently tried at the Exeter assizes, for the murder of Mr. Thomas Palmer, a midshipman, belonging to Her Majesty's ship the  Wasp,
 Mr. Ward  feared that his vote, which would be with the hon. Member for Montrose, would bring upon him the censure of the noble Lord behind him (Lord Ebrington). The question which they had to decide was, whether the punishment which had been already inflicted was or was not proportionate to the offence which had been committed. They were not to decide upon the fallibility or infallibility of the Secretary of State for the Home Department; but they were to consider whether they would affirm a Resolution which would, if carried, inflict utter ruin on a man who up to the time when that charge was made, had never been accused of any conduct incompatible with his official duties or his high personal character; a man who, it must be admitted, had considerable good qualities, when even in the heat of party he had friends on both sides of the House. Mr. Wray had been censured by his official superior; and that censure had been almost doubled by the
 1410 1411
 Mr. Ward  said, that he considered it highly desirable that men of known honour, integrity, and capacity, should be openly and avowedly interested in enterprises from which the public derived so much benefit as from railways. He had himself been a railway director for ten years; and so long as he saw those concerns with which he was connected conducted with propriety, he should not be ashamed to avow his participation in them.
 Mr. Ward  said, that if the House sanctioned this objection, no Railway Bill would pass before the close of the Session; they should give this Bill fair play. If the respectability of the shareholders of
 1363
 Sir J. Graham  wished to say one word on the Motion now before the House, and he confessed he hoped that, notwithstanding the opinions expressed by various parties who had spoken, the hon. Member for North Lancashire (Mr. W. Patten) would adhere to his preposition. He thought "the previous question" was the direct mode of meeting the Motion of the hon. Member for Lambeth. He (Sir J. Graham) should have a difficulty in negativing the proposition that the conduct of Mr. Wray was deserving of censure; besides, he felt that there was force in what had fallen from the hon. Member who had just sat down. He thought if they would directly negative the Motion, the conduct of Captain Boldero and Mr. Bonham would appear more culpable than that of Mr. Wray—a conclusion at which he certainly could not arrive. He thought the position of Captain Boldero and Mr. Wray had rendered their conduct more amenable to censure; but, looking at the merits and demerits of the case, he was bound to say he did not consider the conduct of Mr. Wray as less culpable than that of Captain Boldero and Mr. Bonham; and he thought that would appear to be the case if they were to negative the last Resolution. He hoped, therefore, the hon. Member would adhere to his Amendment.
 Sir J. Graham  said: As the hon. Member for Lambeth has so frankly and unreservedly stated the opinion which he entertains of my conduct, I must say, that I do not blame the course which he has thought proper to take upon this occasion. It appears to me that the question now before the House may be disposed of with very little loss of time, for the whole of the circumstances of the case lie within a very narrow compass. But, before I proceed to consider those facts, or to call the attention of the House to the conclusions which must necessarily be deduced from them, I beg to say that I am not at all about to dispute the constitutional doctrines which the hon. Gentleman has laid down. I have no intention whatever of denying the weight of those precedents to which he has referred us. I quite concur with him in thinking that no care is ill bestowed which has a tendency to preserve the purity of this House; and I also agree with him that it is exposed to some danger from the spirit of speculation which at this moment prevails; and furthermore, no man can, for a moment, doubt that strict impartiality ought to be religiously observed by the Members of this House in every matter, public or private, upon which they are required to give a vote. It is also equally unquestionable that no crime is greater than to attempt to seduce the Members of this House from the strict and uniform observance of that impartiality which forms one of their first duties. After expressing these several opinions, I now proceed to the other observations which I feel called upon to make. In the first place, I must observe that I have not risen for the purpose of defending Mr. Wray; nor is it my intention in any respect to palliate his conduct, and, therefore, all that I have now to say may be very briefly brought before the House. To the best of my judgment, I have in this case endeavoured to do justice, and to give effect to that which I conceived to be the decision of the Com-
 1383 Hawes: 1384 1385 "Your Committee cannot conclude without calling the attention of the House to the evidence given by Mr. Wray, the Receiver General of Police." 1386 Hawes: 1387
 Sir J. Graham  admitted that the question put by the hon. Gentleman was a most important one. He begged to state in reply that he had that morning heard from Mr. Baron Platt, who informed him that, after full consultation with his bro-
 1368
 Sir J. Graham  said, it was not by any means convenient that he, as Secretary of State, should be called upon to state the advice which he was prepared to offer to the Sovereign with respect to the exercise of the Royal prerogative; but he would say, in reply to the hon. Gentleman's question, that the prisoner William Mays was tried and convicted before Lord Chief Justice Tindal, at the last Spring Assizes, and by him sentenced to fifteen years' transportation. That period, with the concurrence and by the advice of Lord Chief Justice Tindal, he (Sir J. Graham) had commuted to seven years, and he had further ordered the prisoner to be detained until the Summer Assizes, when certain other parties who were inculpated for having taken part
 1370
 Sir John Easthope  said, that he felt called upon to discharge a very painful duty in giving his vote on this occasion. The man who would not feel it painful to be obliged by his sense of duty to sanction a Motion which would bear so strongly upon an individual with a large family, such as Mr. Wray had been described to be by his hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield, was a man whose feelings he did not envy. He intended to vote for the Motion of the hon. Member for Lambeth, solely from a sense of justice; he could have no other feeling, for he had never seen Mr. Wray, nor had he ever had the slightest communication with him. He participated fully in all those feelings of personal respect which had been expressed towards an individual whose name had been brought forward in relation to those transactions, for he had the pleasure of personally knowing him, and he was gratified to find that the general feeling of the House had perfectly acquitted the hon. and gallant Officer to whom he alluded, of corrupt or dishonourable conduct—he meant Captain Boldero, who, notwithstanding, had yet felt it needful to retire from the public service. Nothing could be more gratifying to him (Sir John Easthope) than to find that this acquittal was the universal opinion of the House. He believed that the acceptance of Captain Boldero's resignation was due to public opinion, and to the character of the public men of this country before the world. Approving both of the hon. and gallant Officer for resigning his office, and of the course which the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government had felt himself called on to pursue, he could not agree with the hon. Member for Sheffield, that he (Sir J. Easthope) was joining with those who would destroy a deserving man with a large family, merely because he would adopt the same rule with regard to Mr. Wray which had been adopted with respect to Captain Boldero and Mr. Bonham. He regretted very much to feel obliged to vote for the Motion of the hon. Member for Lambeth; but he would ask the House to consider the opinions of the public with regard to their conduct in this matter—to reflect upon the probable feelings of those of an
 1413
 Sir R. Inglis  said, though appointed a Member of the Committtee, he did not attend, because, having been physically unable to do so the first day, he did not think it right to join it subsequently. He had, however, followed with deeply painful, but still he hoped judicial interests, the proceedings day by day, and he felt that the Resolutions of the Committee had fallen too severely on all three of the Gentlemen affected by it; and if that was his opinion of the Report, of course he looked with less favour on the Motion of the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Hawes) who carried the Resolutions of the Committee far beyond the line they had originally drawn, and subjected to severer punishment than they had intended the individual whose conduct the House was then discussing. The hon. Member for Sheffield had made an appeal  ad misericordiam 1414
 Sir R. Inglis,  seeing his right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Treasury in his place, begged to be allowed to put a question to him relative to the state of Westminster Bridge, and the intention of Her Majesty's Government with respect to it. In order to make his question intelligible, perhaps the House would indulge him with permission to say a few words by way of preliminary explanation. Gentlemen would, perhaps, recollect that last year a Committee was appointed to inquire into the condition of the bridge. They took evidence upon it, and, amongst other testimony, re-
 1366
 Sir R. Peel,  in answer to the question of his hon. Friend, begged to remind the House that a Committee had been appointed last Session to inquire into the state of Westminster Bridge, and he believed that the Committee, by a small majority, decided, upon a review of the whole of the evidence, there was no case upon which to recommend the pulling down of the bridge, and building a new one. The facts he believed to be these—that the Commissioners for superintending the bridge, were in possession of certain estates, which, if converted into capital, would represent a sum of 172,000 l. l., l., 1367 l.,
 Colonel Peel  expressed his high opinion of his two Friends who had resigned their offices, and assured the House that he had been one of those most anxious to have the whole case investigated when the charge was made. Indeed, so desirous was he to have this investigation, that if no one else had brought it forward, he (Colonel Peel) had determined to bring it forward, although he had no personal interest in the matter, as he never had any railroad shares in his life. His hon. Friends had expressed to him their sense of the kindness and courtesy of the Committee towards them; and he felt it his duty to state that feeling to the House. With respect to the North Kent Railway, his two hon. Friends, having seen from what since occurred that it was indiscreet on their part that shares should be nominally held by them, as the public, not knowing that the shares were held but nominally by them, would be less inclined to depend on their decisions in consequence of that holding of shares. It appeared perfectly clear from all the transactions, that neither of his hon. Friends had availed themselves of the knowledge of the assent of the Master General of the Ordnance to go to the market and purchase shares, or make any pecuniary profit. When his hon. Friend (Captain Boldero) was aware of the assent of the Master General of the Ordnance to three railways, he made no use of his knowledge to buy shares, or avail himself of any advantage from that knowledge, which showed that he had no disposition to avail himself of his official position for his private interest. It might be necessary for him to inform the House that Mr. Bonham had stated in a letter that Mr. Wray had never even indirectly alluded to his (Mr. Bonham's) conduct on the South Eastern Railway Committee; and it was not until after the Royal Assent had been given to the Bill that he got 100 reserved shares. On reference to the proceedings of the Committee, it appeared that in the divisions, the majorities were such as to show that Mr. Bonham's vote could not have carried the
 1412
 Sir R. Peel : The noble Lord has entirely mistaken the purport and intent of the observations of my right hon. Friend, when he complained of the late period of the Session at which the hon. Gentleman had submitted this question to the consideration of the House. My right hon. Friend, with myself, was disposed to give to the hon. Gentleman all due credit for that forbearance which led him to postpone any question as to the course which her Majesty's Government intended to pursue, until the lapse of that period which should enable them maturely to consider the bearing and effect of the Report agreed to by the Committee. My right hon. Friend said nothing to-night which was meant in the slightest degree to charge the hon. Gentleman with any neglect of duty in that respect. But this was the fact to which the observations of my right hon. Friend had reference, that the letter which my right hon. Friend wrote to Mr. Wray, conveying the decision of the Government to him, was presented to this House on the 22nd of July. If the hon. Gentleman were dissatisfied with the decision to which my right hon. Friend had come, why is it that he postponed calling the attention of the House to the subject until the 4th of August, having been in possession of that letter on the 22nd July? [Mr.  Hawes: 1403 1404 1405 "Mr. Hignett corruptly used the influence of his official station for the furtherance of his private pecuniary interest, and has therefore shown himself unworthy of confidence as a public man." "Such transactions are inconsistent with the maintenance of that strict impartiality of conduct upon public questions which is to be expected from the public servants of the
 1406 1407 "To call the attention of the Secretary of State particularly to the conduct of Mr. Wray;"— 1408
 Sir R. Peel  said, he had stated at an early period of the Session, that Plenipotentiaries had been appointed by the Brazilian Government, for the purpose of negotiating such a Treaty as that to which the hon. Gentleman had referred. It was a Treaty not for a tariff, but for giving to British subjects the same privileges as the subjects of other countries possessed. The proceedings, however, of those Plenipotentiaries, unlike the conduct of the Brazilian Government in general, had been very dilatory. In the last accounts from the Brazils, it was stated, that a change had taken place in the Government, and that the Gentleman who was Secretary of State, under whose orders that negotiation was conducted, had been recently moved from that office; and that might, perhaps, have caused the delay. The hon. Gentleman had also referred to the imposition by the Government of the Brazils of an additional duty upon certain British manufactures. He could only say, that, unless the account of the hon. Gentleman had been received within the last few days, he did not think that such was the case; for, although the Minister at the Court of the Brazils had at a recent period written on other subjects, he had not alluded in the most distant manner to any such additional duty having been imposed.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he had always expressed a strong opinion, and felt that there was great advantage from giving as free and unrestricted admission to these noble edifices as was consistent with security to the works of art contained in them. He could not conceive anything more likely to exercise a beneficial influence on the public mind than the free admission to examine such edifices; but due precaution should be taken for securing the monuments and other works of art from injury; although he believed, that, speaking generally, nothing could be more exemplary than the conduct of the great body of the people; and he was speaking of the working classes, because he believed that their conduct had been as exemplary as that of the higher classes; still the hon. Gentleman must be aware, that occasionally it did happen, as in the case of the Portland Vase, and also of some very valuable pictures, that there were exceptions from that general exemplary conduct. He did not mention that as a reason for additional restrictions; but that free admission should not be allowed to the injury of the works of art. That distinguished divine, the late Dean of Westminster, had had an interview with him; and he must say, he believed that it was the wish of the Dean and Chapter of Westminster to give those facilities of admission to the Abbey which they thought they could give consistently with security to the works of art; and he understood that the present Bishop of Ely did give, in pursuance of the promises he made, the fullest consideration to the subject, and that his exertions were constantly
 1375 "As I know your wishes respecting the admission of strangers into the Abbey, I trouble you with a line to say that I have just issued some new directions on that subject. Strangers are henceforth to be admitted without any payment into the south transept, the nave, and the north transept, that is, into the great body of the church. The only part from which they will be excluded, is from the choir (except at times of service), for obvious reasons, and the chapels behind the choir. These will be shown to them at a charge of 6 d.
 Viscount Ebrington  said, that whilst the mode of proceeding was so severe against those who elected Members for Parliament who received bribes, it appeared strange that hon. Members should feel so little disposed to take any active course when the charge was against those in a higher sphere. The speech of the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department rather surprised him, for it treated the proceedings of the Committee as if they had been all confined to a few sentences at the conclusion, and as if there had been no proof of Mr. Wray having been instrumental in conveying those shares to Mr. Bonham. Agreeing with the noble Lord the Member for London, that it was most desirable to preserve the purity of the House of Commons, and particularly at a time when so much excitement prevailed in the money market, he would support the Motion of the hon. Member for Lambeth.
 Viscount Palmerston  said: On behalf of the South-Eastern Railway Company, I beg to offer a few words in explanation of what fell from me on the other evening. I had been informed that the reason why the engines used on that line were too weak to perform their duty, which made it necessary to have an additional engine to propel each train behind, was mistaken economy on the part of the directors of the Company. But I have since been waited on by a deputation of the directors of the Company, and they have assured me that the reason was not a mistaken economy, but a mistaken calculation, and that the persons who were
 1369
 Mr. B. Denison  presented a petition from the London and York Railway Company, denying the statements contained in the petition of the Chairman of the Cambridge and Lincoln Company, presented by the hon. Member for Lambeth on Monday. They stated that in consequence of the discussion last night, they had given directions to ascertain to what extent the allegations contained in the petition were true, and although only a few hours had elapsed since the investigation had commenced, he had the satisfaction to state that, of the first class, which contained thirty-five names, they had seen twenty-three during the day, six more within the last two hours, and three they were unable to find. Of the other class, containing twenty names, who were stated to be in indigent circumstances and unable to pay their subscription, several had already offered to do so. They also stated that the petitioner was vice chairman of a company competing with the London and York Railway. He moved that the petition be printed with the Votes.
 Mr. T. Dumcombe : The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not stated the facts of the case fairly. The prayer of the petition before the House went further than asking for an immediate inquiry. The petitioners prayed for leave to bring actions against their slanderer; they asked the leave of the House to bring actions for defamation. He thought that as to time, there was quite sufficient to enable a Committee to inquire so as to enable the parties, who said that they were aggrieved, to prosecute
 1435
 Mr. B. Denison  said, that the parties presenting the petition of yesterday were guilty of making an attempt to impose upon the House in the discharge of its duties. The petition was presented for the purpose of staying the progress of a Bill before the House, and it was for the House to consider whether it would take up the matter, and determine whether it would submit to what appeared to him in the light of a serious breach of privilege. He had given notice of a Motion on Friday next, which he hoped the House would accede to, to enable the parties aggrieved to proceed in a legal way to vindicate their character from the aspersions cast upon them by the petition presented last night. He thought that it would be a scandalous proceeding if persons were to be permitted to make such allegations to the House as were contained in that petition, and the House were to refuse the parties aggrieved the means of redress.
 The Earl of Lincoln  rose to correct a
 1436 ex parte
 Viscount Clive  asked the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether any communication had taken place between the right hon. Baronet and the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, as to the formation by them of a scale for augmenting small livings, in which area shall be taken into consideration as well as population; also, when such scale is likely to come into operation, as proposed by the right hon. Baronet during the progress of the Cathedral Churches
 1442
 Colonel T. Wood  thought the number
 1446
 Sir D. J. Norreys  said, he had given notice of his intention to put a question to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland, with respect to the valuation for the purposes of assessment in Ireland. He wished to be informed whether that system, which had been denounced as inapplicable to Ireland, was to be persisted in; or whether it was intended to continue the tenement valuation now in progress, in pursuance of the recommendation of a Committee of the House of Commons; or whether, as there appeared to be a difference of opinion on the subject between that House and certain noble Lords in the other House, as to the principle on which that valuation should be conducted, it would not be better to stop the progress of the valuation altogether, until both Houses should be able to concur as to the principle, rather than to continue an expense which might afterwards turn out to be useless?
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  hoped the measure would be brought in at a sufficiently early period of the next Session to give all parties full time to consider it.
 Sir D. Norreys  inquired whether the new valuation would be on the standard of prices, as regulated by the old Act, or whether it would proceed on the principle of the valuation adopted under the Poor Law Act?
 Mr. Duncan  thought the measure a dangerous one. Such a Bill would form a precedent for other measures which would fetter the liberty of trade.
 Mr. Villiers  objected to the passing of the Bill, coming as it did so late in the Session, and so objectionable as it was in many points.
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell , as an Irish Member, wished to express his thanks to the
 1492 1493
 Mr. Moffatt  begged to call the attention of the House to two points which had been overlooked on the present occasion. The first related to the alteration which had been made in the Sugar Duties. The home consumption had increased, it was stated, 30 per cent. in consequence of the reduction of the duties; but the official returns made the increase 33 per cent. So far that was favourable to the principle of reduction. But, at the same time, notwithstanding the great increase of consumption, the revenue would be very much diminished—a consequence which might be avoided by opening our ports to the markets of the world. What was the practical result of that alteration? It improved the value of free-labour sugar, but it improved the value of slave-labour sugar at the same time. The arguments used against throwing
 1495
 Mr. Villiers  said, that he thought, from the attention which had been given to the practical observations of the hon. Member for Dartmouth, that the hon. Member for Kent might satisfy himself that he was not, as he had said, out of place when he departed from his usual strain in giving the House useful information. The hon. Member for Kent should not either think that when he referred to such matters as the subsistence of the people, that he was stating anything foreign to practical Christianity. He apologized to the House for his allusion to the prospect of the harvest offered in the county of Kent. He would excuse him if he said that to this House and to the country, that
 1496 1497 1498 1499 1500
 Lord John Russell : I do not think that the Motion of which I have given notice will interpose to prevent the disposal of any public business now remaining for our consideration. I understood from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the Consolidated Fund Bill and some other Bills would be passed at an early period of the evening, and I was perfectly satisfied to postpone my observations until a later period. These measures having been passed, I will take this opportunity—one of the last we shall have this Session—of considering in what way we have performed the duties we were called on to perform by Her Majesty in Her Speech delivered at the commencement of the Session. And in so doing, I shall refer to those subjects rather with the view to measure the progress we have made—to point out the defects that are to be found in those measures, and to ask the House to consider the prospect before them—than with the view contemplated on another occasion, and in another place, of proving the Ministers of the Crown to be incompetent to the functions which they have to perform. Whether that be so or not, it is not my present purpose to inquire. If, however, it were my purpose to imitate the practice to which I have referred—if it were my purpose to found a charge of incompetency on the fact that measures were delayed until a late period of the Session, and only sent from one House to the other in the month of July,
 1455 1456 1457 1458 1459 1460 1461 1462 1463 "He had met congregated thousands in Ireland, and asked them, would they give up Repeal if he could get justice? He was met by a unanimous shout, 'Get us justice from England, and never think of Repeal more.' He came with that announcement to the British Legislature. He announced it with no affectation of humility—he did not represent any town, city, or borough—he represented millions, and had the confidence of millions. Do justice to Ireland, and England had nothing to apprehend from the further agitation of Repeal, nothing to apprehend from Ireland, but everything to hope. Henceforth separation was at an end. Do them justice, and they were ready to become a party to the Empire. Refuse it at your peril." "What was it that the Irish people wanted? Simply to become a part of England. True, they had sighed and struggled to procure a domestic legislature, and perhaps to that object might be still directed the aspirations of his own heart. But he and they were ready to give it up. He called upon the House to witness that they were ready to abandon the Repeal for ever upon one condition, and one only—that of being placed upon perfect equality with England and Scotland." 1464 1465 1466 1467 s. s. 1468 1469 s. s. "Small by degrees, and beautifully less." 1470 1471 s. s. 1472 1473 1474 1475 "Sir, I object to the plan of the noble Lord on three distinct grounds. First, that if it were the feeling that such a Board of Education should be appointed—and the reverse is the case—it should not be appointed in the manner proposed by a single vote of this House. My next objection is, that any such Board of Education should be so constituted as to be exclusively composed of Her Majesty's Ministers. Thirdly, I object, in reference especially to the children of members of the Established Church, that there should be an entire exclusion of the ecclesiastical authorities who are properly placed in charge of the religious education of the community." 1476 1477 1478 1479 1480 "A Return of the quantity of wheat in bond on the 1st day of July every year since 1838;
 1481
 Lord John Russell  agreed with the course recommended by the right hon. Gentleman. He thought the inquiry sought for should be made; and, guarding himself against the presumption that he would in future vote for a similar Motion, unless under similar circumstances, he would support the Motion for the appointment of a Committee.
 Mr. Hawes  was ready to move for the Committee now, if the Government would support him.
 Mr. Hawes  then moved that the petition presented to the House by the Deputy Chairman of the Cambridge and Lincoln Railway be referred to a Select Committee. He hoped the House would agree to the Motion, and that they would permit the Members of the Committee to be named at once, so that the inquiry might be immediately commenced.
 Mr. Hawes  wished to explain the position in which he stood with respect to the Select Committee which it was last night his intention to have moved for that day. After he had stated that he would move for such a Committee, the noble Lord the Member for Nottinghamshire (the Earl of Lincoln) stated that he would oppose the Motion. He thought, therefore, with the Government opposed to it, that it would be a perfect farce to move for such a Committee. He was now ready, however, relying on the assurances which had been given him, faithfully and diligently to prosecute the inquiry, notwithstanding all the asseverations which had been made by hon. Gentlemen on either side of the House.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that after this petition the House was imperiously called upon to institute some inquiry, and no man was more ready than himself to enter into it. If an attempt had been made to make use
 1433
 Mr. Bickham Escott  moved for copies of all letters and other documents which had passed to and from the Court of Directors of the East India Company, and Lieutenant W. Hollis, and to and from the said Court and the Board of Control, relative to the dismissal of that officer from the East India Company's service. Lieutenant Hollis was dismissed from the East India Company's service in 1841, in consequence of having made use of insulting language to his superior officer. He (Mr. Escott) admitted that the expressions employed were unjustifiable; but he urged that strong provocation had been given by the unwarrantable conduct of the officer insulted, and he hoped that the case would be taken into the merciful consideration of the Court of Directors. He maintained, also, that the court-martial which condemned Lieutenant Hollis was illegally constituted, and read extracts to prove the extenuating circumstances of the case and the irregular constitution of the Court.
 Colonel Sibthorp  and Mr.  Gregory Speaker
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, the question now was whether it was not necessary that the Government should without any delay take some steps for affording compensation to the unfortunate individuals who suffer by accidents on railroads.
 Mr. Cardwell  observed that the person from whom the petitioners had received the tobacco had been recently proceeded against by the Excise, and incurred heavy penalties. The suspicions of the Excise were, consequently, excited, and they made the seizure. They continued to be of opinion that the tobacco was adulterated. Not, however, suspecting any fraud on the part of the petitioner, they gave notice that it was not their intention to proceed for penalties, but that they could not allow it to be sold as genuine tobacco, and therefore should proceed for its condemnation. The petitioners had, therefore, everything that was necessary for the vindication of their character. As to the analysis, the difficulty of proof rested with the Excise. The officers of revenue had done precisely that which was their duty—they had prevented adulterated tobacco being innocently sold as genuine tobacco, and the petitioners had received every reparation which their character could require in being exonerated from the penalties.
 Mr. Darby  said, that if the hon. Gentlemen begged of them not to go down to the country and say that the Government had pledged themselves to maintain the Corn Laws, he would, in return, request the hon. Gentleman not to say that Government did intend to alter the Corn Laws. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Wolverhampton said, he hoped the Ministers would declare their thoughts on this subject. He should have thought that the hon. Gentleman did not want to be enlightened on it. The hon. Gentleman dealt a great deal in prophecy, but he had never known one of his prophecies to turn out true. The hon. Gentleman frequently declared in 1841, that trade would never revive in consequence of the Corn Laws; whereas now he told them that capital was never so abundant, that production was never so great, and that steam engines were never so busy. Yet all this was done in the face of the Corn Law. The hon. Gentleman talked of the quantity of corn in bond, and made the starvation of the country depend on it; but he would ask the hon. Gentleman if he had ascertained the quantity in the country—did he know the quantity of free stock and the quantity of home-grown corn in the country at the present moment? The hon. Gentleman knew nothing of the subject, and he only hoped he would not alarm the country by his speech. He also had the pleasure of telling the hon. Gentleman that the glass was for some days rising. He had, he regretted to say, seen a sort of fiendish delight on the part of some at the bad weather. If they were to have bad weather, they must meet it with becoming resignation; but he could only pity those who rejoiced in it as a means of carrying out
 1503
 Colonel Dawson Damer  appeared at the bar, with a Message from Her Majesty. Upon being called on by the Speaker, he said that Her Majesty had received the Address of that House on the 1st of this month, to which he had been directed to present to the House the following Answer:—
 "I have received with much satisfaction your Address, in which you assure Me that you will make good a sum of money to be granted for the relief of the sufferers by the late calamitous Fires at Quebec. 1439 "I have given directions that a sum, not exceeding 20,000 l.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, his noble Friend the Secretary for the Colonies had, he believed, received for presentation to Her Majesty an Address upon the same subject as the petition which had been presented to that House. The Government had but one object in these matters, to confer as generally as possible the advantages of postal communication; and, upon the receipt of the petition and the Address alluded to, the question of whether the prayer of the inhabitants of the Colony in question, that the packets should call out and home at St. John's could be complied with consistently with due despatch as regarded the other American Colonies, had been referred to the Admiralty and Post-office Departments; and their opinion was, that, though the packets often came within sight of St. John's, to oblige them
 1450
 Mr. Waddington  wished to ask the hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Board of Trade, whether he had received any information relative to the serious accident which yesterday occurred on the Eastern Counties Railway. He understood that the directors had withheld all information upon the subject; but he had visited the spot immediately after the accident took place, and a frightful accident it proved to be. Not only was it attended with the death of a stoker, but another man had his leg broken, and a third he saw led away to the hospital in a most alarming state.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved the Order of the Day for the third reading of the Exchequer Bills Bill; upon which,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : To do it this Session, you must have an engine behind.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  suggested the propriety of the House acting with great caution upon that occasion. The Committee on the Bill was the proper tribunal for entering into all such inquiries. But the parties there entered into a compromise, one party contracting not to bring one matter under the notice of the Committee, and the other party giving an equivalent. That being the case, was it fair or just that the party who had a perfect cognizance of all the facts he now alleged, when before the Committee, should come in upon the third reading of the Bill, and ask for a full inquiry into the facts at the public expense? As one petition had been printed with the Votes, let the House order the counter petition to be made public through the same channel, and some degree of justice would be done.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the money was to be paid in the course of twenty years. But the Government had the power, under the Act which enabled them to make the advance, of remitting those payments which were not justly due by the parishes to which they were charged, and they had exercised that power in the manner he had mentioned.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had not the papers connected with the subject before him, and therefore he might be inaccurate in stating details; but he could state generally that the Union Workhouses had been built, not by means of votes of money in Parliament, but the general authority of the Act which had imposed the Poor Law upon Ireland, and which had directed generally that a sum of money should be advanced on Exchequer Bills for the purpose of erecting workhouses in the different parts of Ireland. Those workhouses had been accordingly erected under the direction of the Poor Law Commissioners; and it had afterwards appeared that from the rapidity with which they had been erected, they were in point of fact not worth the total amount which had been charged for them. At last great complaints had been made by the parishes that they were called on to pay a larger amount than that which they had received was equitably worth; and upon their representations the Government had sent an engineer officer to examine into the real state of those workhouses, and in consequence of his report it appeared that certain deductions were to be made from the sums to be paid by particular parishes. These deductions were given in the papers which the hon. Gentleman held in his hands. Power had been given at the same time to remit part of the payments in particular cases, with respect to the advances which had been made.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was advanced by the public—so much as was said to have been charged on the parishes unjustly, and the public would have to pay it.
 Mr. Warburton  said, it was not a sufficient reason with him to consent to a measure of which he knew nothing, that the Board of Trade approved of it. He would move that the third reading be deferred till that day three months.
 Mr. Warburton  had seen cause, during the progress of the discussion, to alter somewhat the opinion which he entertained at the early part of it. He agreed with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that if the House granted Committees of this nature, for the purpose of inquiring into fraudulent subscription lists, and if these inquiries were to be conducted at the public expense, the presenting of petitions of this kind, and the conducting of proceedings thereupon at the public expense, would become the uniform course adopted as the most effectual, by parties opposing Private Bills. If the inquiry now sought were to go on, the parties seeking it should pay the expense, and not the public. He regarded this as a mode of action adopted by the opponents of the Bill to stop its further progress.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that the House ought to consider in what manner it would proceed on an allegation of this kind aiming against the Bill in this stage of it. When a similar petition was brought to him respecting another Railway Bill, he said there were two ways of inquiring into the truth of the allegations—viz., by a Select Committee, or a Committee on the Bill; and he had said that he would not move for a Select Committee when the truth of the allegations could be inquired into by a Committee on the Bill. The parties were aware of all the circumstances which they now represented to the House when they were before the Committee. That was the proper tribunal to prosecute the inquiry, and, to inform itself upon the manner in which the subscription lists of all railways were made up. He trusted the House would not entertain the petition.
 Mr. Bright  said, it was quite evident that those who had introduced this Bill into Parliament were either ignorant of the subject upon which they sought to legislate, or were pandering to the prejudices of that class who would be affected by the measure. They might depend upon it that the measure would do no good, but would disappoint the silk weavers in the expectations it would excite in their minds. But for the late period of the Session he should oppose it.
 Mr. Plumptre  said, it was neither an unusual nor objectionable thing to review, at the close of the Session, the chief measures which had occupied the attention of Parliament. When the right hon. Baronet, at the commencement of the Session, introduced the Maynooth Bill, he (Mr. Plumptre) expressed his objections to that measure; and now that it had passed into a law, he was of opinion that it was no less objectionable. The more he considered that measure, the less was the satisfaction with which he viewed it. He could not avoid asking the question, had it given satisfaction to Ireland? Had it not been the means of dividing a great party in that country? They should not forget, that if it had been left to the decision of the usual supporters of Her Majesty's Ministers, it would have been lost. Of the usual supporters of Ministers, 152 voted against the measure, and 150 in its favour. If it had been left to the strength of the supporters of Government, it could not have been carried. The Statute Book was disgraced by having such an enactment; and next Session he should—though not with much hope of success—feel it his duty to do what in him lay to remove from the Statute Book that which the country considered to be a most obnoxious Statute.
 1494
 Mr. Brotherton  thought that the Bill should be postponed until next Session. He was of opinion, however, that it contained many admirable propositions.
 Mr. Brotherton : The whole mischief arose from a fraudulent compact entered into between the parties before the Standing Orders' Committee, in order to keep them in the dark. It was only when the parties quarrelled that the House became acquainted with the facts of the case.
 Mr. Hume  objected to the issuing of such complex tickets as those contemplated under the measure before the House. He hoped that the Bill would be allowed to stand over.
 Mr. Hume  knew nothing of the object of this Bill, and he believed the House generally was in the same situation. He was not even aware that it had been printed.
 Mr. Hume  said, if the Government had authorized the payment of any money which had not been included in the general stipulation, it was quite illegal.
 Mr. Hume  said, his question had not been answered by the right hon. Gentleman. The question was, who was to pay that 46,000 l.?
 Mr. Hume  considered the matter altogether
 1448
 Mr. Hume  wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman respecting a sum of 46,000 l.,
 Mr. Hume  thought the proceedings in this case, as in all connected with tobacco, were most disgraceful, and such as could not take place in any other country. Persons whose families had been in the business for centuries were preparing to leave it, because an honest man found it utterly impossible to carry it on with any profit. The only remedy to be applied was a large reduction of the duty.
 Colonel Rolleston  said, the object of the Bill, as he understood, was to protect the working silk weavers against the master manufacturers.
 Mr. Borthwick  said, the Bill had only come down from the House of Lords on the 30th of July, and it now appeared
 1452 Punch,
 Mr. P. Howard  said, that on the Newcastle and Carlisle Railway, if any accident happened to a servant of the Company, they invariably gave some compensation or made some allowance to the sufferer. In the very few cases of fatal accidents which had occurred on that line, the Company had also awarded some compensation to the family of the unfortunate deceased. He trusted the same equitable feeling would induce the Eastern Counties Railway Company to make some allowance to the families of the unfortunate sufferers by the recent accident.
 Mr. B. Osborne  remarked, that on a former occasion the hon. Member for Finsbury had drawn the attention of the Government and the House to certain transactions that had occurred in a certain Union House in the county of Hampshire. He would ask the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Graham) whether he had, as he then promised he would do, instituted any inquiry into the accuracy of the statements which had been made?
 Mr. Sheil  said, that he was sure that the hon. Member for Wolverhampton most sincerely prayed that all the arguments which he could adduce in support of his views, with respect to the Corn Laws, might not derive fearful corroboration from the calamities which would be inflicted upon the country by a bad harvest. The right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government had been seconded in all his efforts by a cycle of good harvests. He agreed with hon. Gentlemen who asserted that the Corn Laws were matters of paramount importance. Ireland, although the land of difficulty, should not entirely end gross the attention of the House. His noble Friend commenced with Ireland, and terminated with Ireland. That was not unnatural, because Ireland was a subject which pressed upon every public man, an exclusive subject of consideration not unfrequently in the Cabinet; and he was sure that there was no subject which engaged the solicitude of the right hon. Gentleman opposite more than Ireland, which did not now, however, present as pleasing a prospect as he could desire to have offered to his contemplation. He was not at that late hour of the night going into all the topics which had been adverted to by his noble Friend. But there was a measure of the Government to which he felt it his duty to advert, and it did the greatest credit to the Government that they passed it, and he trusted that they would make it a model measure. It was a measure which Her Majesty's Government might take as a pattern by which their future legislation in respect to Ireland should be regulated. It was a measure valuable in itself, and more so in view of the results to which it was likely to lead. With respect to their measure for academic instruction, he did not set the same value upon it as he did upon the Maynooth Bill. It
 1504 s. l. 1505 s. s. l. s. s. s. 1506 l. 1507 1508
 Mr. Sheridan  called the attention of the House to the petition of Richard and James Keynes, grocers of Shaftesbury, which had been printed, and
 1509
 Mr. Milner Gibson , would venture to doubt whether any oppression which it fell to the lot of the Irish to suffer, whether any infraction of the civil rights of any portion of the Empire, was greater than
 1501 1502
 Mr. Greene  said, in the absence of his hon. Friend the Member for Lincolnshire, who had charge of the measure, he had undertaken to move the third reading. The Bill was one which had come down recently from the House of Lords, and was a counterpart of the measure which had passed some time ago for regulating the working of framework knitters.
 Mr. Greene  said, when he took charge of the measure for his hon. Friend the Member for Lincolnshire, he took the precaution of inquiring of his right hon. Friend (Sir G. Clerk) whether the Board of Trade approved of it, and was informed by him that he had read the measure, and that it had his approbation.
 Mr. Greene  moved the Third Reading of the Silk Weavers' Bill.
 Mr. Wakley  said, the petition presented by the hon. Member for Lambeth yesterday was allowed to be printed with the Votes, upon a distinct understanding that a Motion was to be founded upon it then; yet nothing appeared to be further from the thoughts of the hon. Member than to proceed with the petition. The Gentlemen opposite and those named in the petition considered themselves calumniated, and he thought they were right. The calumnies were printed with the Votes of the House, which were openly and publicly sold. He would warn the House that it was a dangerous practice they were beginning upon, and might lead them into much trouble. The hon. Member for Lambeth ought to name the party upon whose faith and information he undertook to present the petition. Yesterday the House was led to believe that the hon. Member had everything prepared to substantiate. [Mr.  Hawes: 1434
 Mr. Wakley  was glad that he had referred the case pointedly to the right hon. Gentleman, as it turned out that he had made a good selection. The question now was, to what extent the inquiry was to proceed, and what was to be its precise nature.
 Mr. Astell  defended the course taken by the directors of the London and York Company, who had spared no expense or labour in their endeavours to ascertain the  bonâ fide
 Mr. Ewart  said, it appeared that in the train to which this accident occurred, the engine was followed by a luggage carriage and by two empty first-class carriages. Those carriages were rent in pieces, while the carriages containing passengers were undamaged. He thought, therefore, that it would be a most prudent regulation to require railway companies to place luggage or empty carriages between the engines and the carriages conveying passengers. This was a subject which, in his opinion, was well worthy the consideration of Her Majesty's Government.
 Mr. Gregory  said, it must be a subject of great congratulation to all persons who travelled by railways, that it was intended to confer further powers on the Board of Trade; but to none could it be a subject of greater congratulation than to those who had had the misfortune to travel on the Eastern Counties Railway, that it was intended to confer powers on that Board to enable it to institute a rigid investigation into the proceedings of that line. He had the honour, at the beginning of this year, to submit to the Board of Trade a memorial, signed by twenty-two Members of that House, and also by Lord Exeter, Lord Stradbroke, and others, complaining of the malpractices on that line. They complained of great and unnecessary delays, of extreme incivility, and of insufficient attendance. They complained to the Company of that delay, and all they received in reply was the time tables of the railway. But he could prove to the House, and the hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon could bear out that statement, that the statistics contained in those tables were totally incorrect. How could it possibly be imagined that there could be safety on
 1445
 Sir C. Burrell  wished to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet the Vice President of the Board of Trade to a report he had heard, that the chief engineer on one of two great competing lines of railway had declared that, if the trains on the other line were propelled at the rate of fifty or sixty miles an hour, the trains on his line should exceed that speed by five miles an hour. If that report were true, he thought it was time the Government possessed some power to restrain such dangerous competition.
 Sir G. Clerk  replied, that the Board of Trade had no power whatever in the matter
 1440 1441
 Mr. Ward  hoped the House would feel that he was justified in making a few remarks upon the statement which had been made by the hon. Gentleman. The hon. Gentleman was one of a section of gentlemen whom the Company had been most anxious to please, but whom they had been so unfortunate as to displease. The period to which the hon. Gentleman referred, was the Newmarket week; and there was a most unfortunate succession of mishaps—he could call them nothing else. There was every wish to accommodate those gentlemen, but one thing after another went wrong; but, at all events, all that the hon. Gentleman suffered was loss of time, and the hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon was once or twice too late for his dinner. The servants of the Company were bound to make accurate returns of the time at which the trains arrived at the several stations. He hoped that, in future, when the hon. Member who had spoken had occasion to travel by this railway, he would have no reason to complain of their arrangements.
 Mr. Ward  said, that the hon. Baronet (Sir G. Clerk) could scarcely yet have received the account of the accident at the Board of Trade; and perhaps the House would allow him to state the particulars of the unhappy occurrence. If it were to be ascribed to the causes which he had heard alleged, he did not see how any human foresight or precaution could have averted the consequences. It appeared that the train left London at eleven o'clock yesterday forenoon, and as since the opening of the new line to Cambridge the board of directors had taken the precaution of desiring the superintendent of the locomotive department to go as far as Cambridge with the quick train, to see that the men properly worked the engines, the superintendent was accordingly on the engine yesterday, and was the only one of the survivors who could give an account of the occurrence. He preserved the whole of his recollection, and was under examination to-day. He stated that the engine
 1443 1444
 Mr. Ward  wished to state, that at the meeting of the Board of Directors that morning, the very first resolution to which they agreed was, that a provision should be made for the widow of the unfortunate man who had been killed, and that every possible attention should be paid to the other sufferers.
 Sir J. Graham  remarked, that the Frame Work Knitters Bill, upon the model of which he understood the present measure was founded, had received the fullest consideration, and had resulted from the recommendation of a Commission appointed by the Crown, in compliance with an Address of the House of Commons. Though the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Bright) thought it would lead to disappointment, he was informed that the workmen who would be affected by it were most anxious for this legislation. The principle was in no way novel; it had existed in regard to the hosiery trade for a long time, and he did not consider that he would have been justified, on the part of the Government, in resisting a wish so generally expressed by those for whose benefit the measure was brought forward.
 Sir J. Graham  said, he understood at the time that the Union to which the hon. Member for Finsbury referred was that of Andover, and it was quite true that he undertook that inquiry should be made into the circumstances to which the hon. Gentleman called his attention. In consequence of that promise he had issued a notice to the Poor Law Commissioners on the following morning, requesting them to institute an immediate inquiry. He had not yet received their report, but he hoped to do so before the prorogation; and when he received it, he would lose not a moment in laying it on the Table. He might add, that not only had he directed inquiry to be instituted, but he had asked the question of the Commissioners, whether any information, such as the hon. Member for Finsbury had received, had been communicated to them; and their reply was, that they had never heard of the transactions referred to until they were mentioned by the hon. Member for Finsbury in that House.
 Sir J. Graham  said: The noble Lord has concluded a speech marked by his accustomed ability, and by some degree of bitterness. Certainly, as to the ability, I cannot hope to compete with him; with respect to the bitterness—[Mr.  Sheil Sheil: 1482 1483 1484 1485 1486 1487 1488 1489 d. 1490 l. l. l. s. s., s.; 1491 s. d. s.
 Sir J. Graham  suggested that further debate upon the subject should be adjourned until Friday, by which time he would have had an opportunity of consulting his noble Friend the President of the Board of Trade upon the Bill. The effect of the proposed alteration in the law would be to make compulsory that which was optional under the Bill of the hon. Member for Montrose. The feeling of the working classes he understood to be strongly in favour of the Bill.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that no written communication had taken place between him and the Ecclesiastical Commissioners upon the subject to which the question referred; but he, being a member of the Commission, did bring the matter under the consideration of the Commissioners. At the present moment, however, on account of the deficiency of funds, all augmentation of small livings by the Commission was suspended. When he (Sir J. Graham) proposed that area as well as population should be taken into consideration with reference to the augmentation of small livings, no positive decision was adopted by the Commissioners, but the proposition was favourably entertained.
 Sir John Easthope  said, that some time ago he had received from several of his constituents a communication requesting him to support the provisions of this Bill. He had occasion to leave town immediately afterwards; but before going away, he informed his hon. Colleague of the contents of that communication. The Bill should receive his support.
 Sir John Easthope  said, that representations had been made to him in favour of the Bill. It had been generally known in the districts principally concerned, that such a measure was pending in Parliament, and he apprehended that no objection had been raised to it, either on the part of the masters or that of the operatives. He had been told that the measure
 1453
 Mr. Pakington  said, a petition had been presented by a noble Friend of his from St. John's, Newfoundland, setting forth the advantages which would result to the inhabitants of that Colony if the Post-office packets, which frequently passed so near as to come within sight of their ports, were required to touch there, for the purpose of conveying their letters to and from England direct. He wished to ask his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies whether any and what steps had been taken on the subject?
 Sir R. H. Inglis  thought that the course proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, and adopted by the noble Lord, might probably be the wise one, but it was not the course for which the petitioners in the present case prayed.
 Sir R. Peel  doubted whether the remedy sought for by the petitioners really existed. He also doubted the policy of the House
 1437 1438
 Sir T. Fremantle  said, the valuation would be made, in the first instance, on the actual value of the property. If they estimated the value according to the standard of prices, they must still have a preliminary valuation.
 Sir T. Fremantle  much regretted that the Valuation Bill for Ireland had been rejected by the House of Lords; the only consolation, however, which he derived under the circumstances was, that it had been decently interred. It was, no doubt, difficult to devise a principle of valuation which should be applicable to all purposes of local assessment, and be, at the same time, satisfactory to all parties. He had hoped that that object would have been accomplished by the Bill of the present Session, but unfortunately that Bill had failed. He had at present no doubt that he should have to bring the question again under the consideration of Parliament in the ensuing Session; but it would be at present premature to offer any opinion as to the principle upon which the proposed measure should proceed. As far, however, as he could now speak, he should say that his recommendation would be, that, relying on the decision of the Committee of the House of Commons, and recollecting that a Bill embodying that decision had already passed the House of Commons, and had been carried up to the Lords, and was there rejected almost wholly on account of the late period of the Session at which it was sent up, the principle of the Bill of the present Session should
 1449
 Viscount Jocelyn  had no objection to the production of the correspondence, believing
 1454 l. l.
 Viscount Palmerston  had a question to ask of the Vice President of the Board of Trade, of which he had given notice. He wished to state his reason why he put this question. He had received a letter from a friend, who had not long ago been a Member of that House, and who, having observed a statement in the papers as to the practice of employing engines at the rear of the train, wrote to him to say that he had observed the same thing on the London and Birmingham Railway. His friend said that he was going down the other day on the fast train—he begged of hon. Gentlemen to remark that—and upon the line from the Weedon station to Birmingham, he observed that they had an engine in the rear, when they were going at a rate, it might be supposed, of from forty to fifty miles an hour. His friend remonstrated against this, but in vain; and in the morning, when he complained at Birmingham, the answer he received was that they were in the constant habit of doing it. If this, then, were the general practice on railways, it seemed to him to be a matter of considerable importance; and it was desirable and essential that it should be put a stop to. The questions, then, that he wished to ask of the hon. Baronet the Vice President of the Board of Trade were, whether the Board of Trade had the power by law to prevent these proceedings; and whether, if they had not the power, the Government would think it right to bring in a Bill—to bring it in now, before this Session was over, giving them some power in this matter? Even still there was time to do this; a Bill might pass through the House of Lords to-morrow and next day, and being brought down to that House on Friday, might pass through all its stages. A Bill of this sort, he said, was required to give security to Her Majesty's subjects.
 Lord Palmerston : It were better that that should for once be done here, in order to secure the placing of the engines before there in future.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  trusted that he would be permitted to move for leave to bring in the Bill relative to the Waste Lands of Australia, of which he had given notice. His only object in so doing was to have the Bill printed for circulation, in the form in which it was proposed to have it amended had it gone into Committee. He was anxious, by now bringing it in, to place it in its amended form before the House and the public.
 Mr. J. A. Smith  asked whether the right hon. Baronet had any objection to lay on the Table, before the House separated, the recent correspondence between the Colonial Office and the New Zealand Company? He trusted he might be permitted, to express the great satisfaction he felt that the term was
 1519
 Colonel Verner  said, he should not be discharging his duty to the Protestants of Ulster, if he did not put a question to the right hon. Baronet, to know whether the report was true, as stated in the papers, that Mr. Watson had been deprived of the commission of the peace and the situation of a deputy lieutenant of the county of Antrim, in consequence of taking part in an Orange procession on the 12th of July last?
 Colonel Verner  said, that as the answer of the right hon. Baronet was not satisfactory, he should move an Address to the Queen, on the subject of the removal of Mr. Watson next Session.
 Sir C. Napier  was about to address the House, when
 Sir G. Clerk , in moving; the Order of the Day for resuming the Adjourned Debate on the Third Reading of the Silk Weavers Bill, observed, that the debate on this question had been adjourned, as it seemed to be doubted whether silk weavers came properly under the Arbitration Act. There could be no doubt that they did, as the object of the Arbitration Act was to extend to the silk trade, the provisions of that Act. The object of this Bill, therefore, was to introduce some few amendments into the silk trade, which had been introduced into the hosiery trade. That a bargain and contract between master and workmen should be reduced to writing, and a copy kept by each. The Bill met with the approbation of all the workmen, and many of the principal masters. It would prevent the litigation formerly so prevalent between those parties.
 1518
 Sir Howard Douglas , referring to the Papers recently laid before the House, explanatory of the proceedings of the Commission under the direction of Lieutenant Colonel Estcourt, engaged in laying down the Boundary Line, as established by the Treaty of Washington, between the British Provinces of Canada and New Brunswick, and the United States, would take that oppportunity of expressing, in strong terms, the satisfaction with which he had read those proofs of the ability, intelligence, and energy, displayed by Lieutenant Colonel Estcourt and his party, in exploring, cutting out, tracing on the ground, and determining, astronomically, the several portions and stations of a frontier, extending over no less than 526 miles, in great part through the virgin tangled forest; by which uncommon exertions, and extraordinary activity, that important service had been so far effectually executed, as to show that it would speedily be brought to completion; and thus evince the real economy of having provided that intelligent, scientific, and excellent officer, with a staff, and means of execution, sufficient to enable him to act with his well-known intelligence and vigour.
 Sir R. Peel : I do not think it necessary for me to assure the House, that the recent harmonious understanding between the Colonial Office and the New Zealand Company, must have been to me a subject of great satisfaction; but I am bound to state, and I do thus publicly state, that whatever credit is due for these improved relations, must be given to my noble Friend. I said some time ago, that whatever might be the differences between my noble Friend and the New Zealand Company, it would be found that my noble Friend was not influenced by them. I am certain that my noble Friend's past conduct in this matter, was guided by public considerations; and I am certain that his future conduct will be guided by public considerations also. The correspondence that formerly took place between him and the New Zealand Company, would not, I was sure, have the slightest influence on his mind, or prevent him from dispassionately taking into view the whole circumstances of the case; and in all that I formerly said on this subject, I spoke with the entire concurrence of my noble Friend. For the purpose of conducting the late negotiations, a gentleman was nominated, who has not been mixed up with these transactions; and was, therefore, enabled to take a more dispassionate view of the whole case—I allude to that most distinguished public officer, Mr. Lefevre. He was called on to assist my hon. Friend near me, the Under Secretary for the Colonies, in this negotiation; and he was employed by my noble Friend, in concert with my hon. Friend, to conduct the arrangement which has just been completed with the New Zealand Company. With respect to the general allusion which the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down made to the satisfactory conclusion of these negotiations, it confirms that which I stated from the first, that my noble Friend was acting, in all that he did, only on public grounds. With respect to the charge, that a "cross" had taken place between the Government and the New Zealand Company, I think that no man, who is acquainted with the respective parties, would imagine such a thing could be possible. No secret understanding of any kind has been entered into, on the part of the Government, with the New Zealand Company. If any such proposition had been made to my noble Friend, it would have met with an indignant
 1521
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, I understand the noble Lord to admit that he finds in the Papers which have been lately presented to the House sufficient proof that the Five Great Powers of Europe, standing as they do in a peculiar relation with the Turkish Empire, have acted together in cordial concert, and that no one of them has been actuated by any desire to gain for itself any particular advantage; and that acting so in concert, they have offered advice to the Turkish Government, which, if adopted, would tend to promote the true interests of the Porte, and, at the same time, conduce to the restoration of tranquillity, and inspire a just confidence in the Government of the Porte. The noble Lord admits that he finds proof of this in the Papers on the Table of the House; but he says the Five Powers are not sufficiently energetic—they are not sufficiently decisive and determined in enforcing the advice they have so given. Now the relation in which the Allies stand to the Porte is a peculiar and a delicate one. You have to require from the Porte the fulfilment of certain engagements into which she has entered; but the sole end and object of your policy is to maintain the integrity of the Turkish Empire—and we have consequently imposed upon us this somewhat contradictory duty, we have to require the fulfilment on the part of the Porte of certain engagements into which it has entered relating to its own international affairs, and at the same time to promote the integrity and independence of the Turkish Empire. The latter consideration—the wish to promote the independence, and maintain the integrity of the Turkish Empire—may suggest itself as the reason why the Five Great European Powers, acting in concert, and giving to the Porte the best advice in their power, have been slow in adopting those measures which might be effectual in compelling obedience on the part of the Pone, but which might at the same time be fatal to its integrity and independence. When we delivered over Syria to the government of the Porte in 1839 and 1840, we could hardly have anticipated that the rule of the Porte over its Syrian subjects would be altogether satisfactory. I will not now call in question the policy which induced you to rescue Syria from the dominion of the Egyptians. I admit you had not merely to say whether the Egyptian rule of Syria was good or not,
 1539 1540
 Sir R. Peel  said, it was true that the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland had felt it to be his painful duty to remove Mr. Watson from the commission of the peace and the deputy lieutenancy. That report was correct. In 1837 (he thought it was) the House of Commons resolved to present an Address to King William IV., praying him to adopt all the necessary measures for the purpose of discouraging Orange societies. That Address was presented to the Sovereign, and a solemn promise was made by the Sovereign that every measure in his power for the purpose of discouraging Orange societies should be dopted. That was the obligation
 1522
 Viscount Palmerston : I gave notice of my intention merely to make some observations upon the affairs of Syria, believing that there would be some Motion before the House to which my observations might be appended; but as I now find that there is no Motion before the House, it is necessary for me to make a specific Motion, for the purpose of enabling the right hon. Gentleman to make such statements as he may deem proper; and, therefore, with the permission of the House, although I have not given notice of my intention to do so, I shall move that an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty for copies or extracts of correspondence relative to the affairs of Syria, in continuation of those already presented to the House. It is not my intention to occupy for any length of time the attention of the House; but, it is my wish, before Parliament separates, to draw the attention of the House and of the Government to two points which are embraced in the Papers that have been laid before us. The House is aware that when, in 1840 and 1841, the Allies thought it necessary to take steps to restore Syria to the direct authority of the Sultan, that part of Syria which is commonly called "The Mountain," which, in fact, consists of the highlands of Lebanon, was governed by the late Emir Beschir Shebab. He was
 1523 1524 "With reference to my despatch of the 20th July last, I transmit to your Excellency herewith a copy of the letter which he has addressed to Sir Charles Napier, complaining that the firman for his indemnification, a translation of which was contained in your despatch of the 31st December, 1843, has not been carried into effect. I have to instruct your Excellency, should the statements contained in the Emir Beschir's letters prove to be correct, to take such measures as to you may seem most likely to induce the Porte to carry out the terms of the firman in question." 1525 1526 1527 1528 1529 1530 1531 1532 1533 1534 "The present state of affairs in Syria has occasioned much concern to Her Majesty's Government"— "But they have been glad to perceive by the latest advices from Colonel Rose that measures were in progress for arresting the course of the hostilities which had broken out between the Druses and the Maronites." "Until the result of those measures is known, and a clearer insight obtained into the various circumstances which have led to and attended these distressing transactions, Her Majesty's Government are unable to arrive at any certain conclusion as to the course which it may be proper to follow, with the view of obviating, if possible, a renewal of civil war in the Lebanon districts." 1535 1536 1537
 Mr. Borthwick  said, the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down had given him a lesson in Parliamentary tactics which he would not fail oh a proper occasion to put in practice. What was most important was, that he the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) had made it impossible for him to bring under the consideration of the House, and of the right hon. Gentleman who had just entered (Sir R. Peel), the great constitutional question alluded to in the Notice which stood in his name. He meant the necessity of appointing Lords Justices in cases of the temporary absence of Her Most Gracious Majesty from her dominions, according to the Constitution and invariable usage of the realm. The noble Lord the Member for the city of London, had in the course of a speech delivered a few nights ago, with a delicacy at once and a courage which well became his position and his name, made a pointed allusion to this grave matter. The right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary had in his reply made no observation whatever upon that part of the noble Lord's speech; and he had been in hopes that the silence he alluded to indicated, if not acquiescence in the noble Lord's views, at least that the subject was under the serious consideration of the Government. There was not time left for him now to enter at all upon the subject in detail; but his duty compelled him to say thus much. Notwithstanding the high authorities which he had seen alleged in favour of the opposite opinion, he believed that the Constitution as well as practice required the authority of the Crown to be exercised within the realm. Constitutional law, like civil law, was to be interpreted not only by the written maxim of the Statute, but by the unwritten authority of prescription. From the earliest periods to which the Constitution of England could be, traced there was not one exception to sanction the absence of the Sovereign without a delegated power to act in certain cases. The Act of Settlement, indeed, in so far as it bound the Sovereign to remain within the realm, unless by special sanction of Parliament, had been repealed. But the great constitutional principle for which he contended, namely, that the functions of the Crown could only be exercised within the realm, interwoven as that principle was with the whole frame of the State, and sanctioned without a single exception as he had shown it to be by uniform precedent, had never been altered or repealed. He
 1557
 Mr. Wyse  moved for Returns of the sums contributed and expended for the establishment and maintenance of the diocesan schools in Ireland, distinguishing such as had been contributed by the clergy of the Established Church, by grand juries, and by pupils respectively. These returns were necessary to complete those for which he moved yesterday, and he called for them thus in time, in order to enable him at an early period in the ensuing Session to resume the question which he had on many former occasions pressed upon the House, the reform and extension of the Diocesan and Royal Schools, and of the dissolution of the Board of Commissioners, under whom they were placed, with the view of making these schools more useful to the general purposes of Irish education. Though the new Colleges (Ireland) Act provided for an important class of education, there was a large space still unoccupied, intermediate between these institutions and the elementary schools, and this interval he wished to see filled up by the Diocesan and Royal Schools, when duly enlarged and reformed, and by such additions to them, on the same principle and in the same class, as might be sufficient to supply the public wants in this department, under the name of County Academies, in every county in Ireland. The Report of the Committee of 1836 and 1838 had gone at great length into the whole of that question; and, after showing the actual defects, had pointed out their remedy. He, as Chairman of that Committee, had spared no opportunity, not only of examining into facts, but into opinions relative to these schools, and he believed no serious difficulty would interfere to prevent the carrying out the alterations and improvements which he ventured to suggest relative to that branch of education in the Report. He did not think that the Commissioners themselves, who were not to be confounded with the Board of Commissioners of National Education, would oppose the dissolution of their body, and the placing the whole under the one administration of the latter. The reform of this department was, in all
 1554 1555
 Sir James Graham  stated, that as only a few days had elapsed since the Royal Assent had been given to the Act for the establishment of new Colleges in Ireland, the charter for the incorporation of these Colleges had not yet been prepared. It was the intention, as it would be the duty of Her Majesty's Government to lay copies of those charters before both Houses of Parliament. Instead of one visitatorial board, it was intended to appoint separate visitatorial boards for each district, those boards to be composed of lay and clerical persons, locally acquainted with the wants of each district. The right hon. Baronet took this opportunity of stating, in answer to a question put to him a few nights since, by the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe), with respect to the infringement of the recent Statute by the employment of females in the collieries near Pres-cott—the fact had been stated correctly by the hon. Member for Finsbury; and the parties who had been guilty of the infringement of the law, were now in course of prosecution by the colliery inspectors.
 Sir R. Peel : I hope the hon. Gentleman will not attribute the abruptness of my reply to any want of courtesy towards him, but rather to the shortness of the time which I can now occupy the attention of the House. I will begin at once by saying that the hon. Gentleman is wrong on every
 1558
