 MR. MILES  found it impossible to allow the debate to terminate without saying a few words. First of all, he cordially agreed with the right hon. Baronet that no Amendment ought to be moved to the Address; but he wished it to be understood, and the public to know, that it should not on that account be inferred that he concurred in the principle now declared by the right hon. Gentleman. He never listened with more surprise and regret to any speech than that of the right hon. Gentleman that night. The right hon. Gentleman had cast reflections on his own supporters, though they were mixed up, certainly, with some words of kindness; but an unfavourable impression as to his own party was conveyed in that sarcastic way which the right hon. Gentleman so well knew how to adopt. He must ask the right hon. Gentleman a question, which he was the more emboldened to put after the admirable speech of his hon. Friend (Mr. Disraeli)—whether they, the Conservatives, returned in 1841 to support the right hon. Gentleman in a particular policy, were now to be called on to abandon that policy, and thus place themselves on the lowest seat of ignominy? What had become of the right hon. and noble Members of the Cabinet who first of all opposed the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman? Was there no public spirit, no enthusiasm, no recollection—he should not say of pledges, but of implied opinions, given at the hustings? And when the right hon. Gentleman, with the ingenuity which belonged to him, brought forward a proposition to which the majority of his Cabinet were decidedly opposed, were the other Members of that Cabinet to sacrifice every thing at the feet of their idol? If determined on that course, why not return the power vested in their hands to their constituencies, and see whether they would sanction such conduct? It was a high constitutional question, as argued by his hon. Friend (Mr. Disraeli), that they should have a certain sound basis as the foundation of party in that House; and he did not see how, in the present state of things, public principle could be upheld, except by taking that course which every constitutional Minister
 125 126
 VISCOUNT NORTHLAND  said, he could only interpret Sir R. Peel's speech as indicating a total repeal of the Corn Laws. He must protest, in the name of the people of Ireland, against such a proposal. If the right hon. Gentleman wished to make the condition of Ireland even worse than it now was, a proposal for the total repeal of the Corn Laws was the most direct means for effecting his object. Ireland was an agricultural country; and if the gentry of that country were ruined, what, he should like to know, would become of the agricultural labourer? It was well known Ireland had no manufactures. He certainly expected that some Member, on one
 124
 LORD F. EGERTON  said: In rising, Sir, on this occasion to address the House, for the purpose of proposing an Address to Her Majesty in reply to the Speech we have just heard read, it is my misfortune that I cannot prefer the same grounds for asking your indulgence which many hon. Gentlemen who have undertaken a similar duty have had it in their power to plead. A reference to  Hansard * 52 53 54 55 56 57 "The elements of permanent advantages were everywhere visible in the year 1844, and that the expectations formed with respect to the year 1845 were realized in the better half of the year; trade was going on, wages rising, &c. Notwithstanding the drawbacks that had to be contended against in the last quarter of 1845, trade was satisfactory on the whole, for profits were realized by our spinners and some of our manufacturers in the first nine months of the year. Those who attribute all the mischief to the late reaction and the exorbitant railway schemes, take a one-sided view of the case, and mistake the effect for the cause. The railway schemes, no doubt, aggravated the evil, but the main cause originated in the deficiency of the harvest, and the failure of the potato crop, at a time when a similar catastrophe occured on the continent of Europe, and rendered an immediate supply of provisions almost impossible." 58 "Claudite jam rivos, pueri; sat prata biberunt;" 59 Napier's History of the Peninsular War, 60 61 "Mountain waves from wasted lands, Sweep back to ocean brine," "Exoriare ali quis nostris ex ossibus ulter." 62 That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, to acknowledge Her Majesty's most gracious Speech from the Throne, and to thank Her Majesty for Her Majesty's condescension in assuring us that it gives Her Majesty great satisfaction again to meet us in Parliament, and to have the opportunity of recurring to our assistance and advice: To assure Her Majesty that we learn with great satisfaction that Her Majesty continues to receive from Her Majesty's Allies, and from other Foreign Powers, the strongest assurances of their desire to cultivate the most friendly relations with this country: That we rejoice to be informed that, in concert with the Emperor of Russia, and through the success of joint mediation, Her Majesty has been enabled to adjust the differences which had long prevailed between the Ottoman Porte and the King of Persia, and had seriously endangered the tranquillity of the East: Humbly to thank Her Majesty for informing us that inasmuch as for several years a desolating and sanguinary warfare has afflicted the States of Rio de la Plata, during which the commerce of all nations has been interrupted, and acts of barbarity have been committed unknown to the practice of a civilized people, Her Majesty, in conjunction with the King of the French, is endeavouring to effect the pacification of those States: To thank Her Majesty for informing us that the Convention concluded with France in the course of last year, for the more effectual suppression of the Slave Trade, is about to be carried into immediate execution, by the active co-operation of the two Powers upon the Coast of Africa; and to assure Her Majesty that we cordially unite in Her Majesty's desire, that the present union and the good understanding which so happily exists between the two Countries, may always be employed to promote the interests of humanity, and to secure the peace of the world: That we participate in the regret expressed by Her Majesty, that the conflicting claims of Great Britain and the United States in respect to the
 63 To thank Her Majesty for having directed the Estimates for the year to be laid before us at an early period, and for informing us that, although Her Majesty is deeply sensible of the importance of enforcing economy in all branches of the Expenditure, yet that Her Majesty has been compelled by a due regard to the exigencies of the Public Service, and to the state of the Naval and Military establishments, to propose some increase in the Estimates which provide for their efficiency: Humbly to assure Her Majesty, that with Her Majesty we have deeply regretted to observe the very frequent instances in which the crime of deliberate assassination has been of late committed in Ireland, and that we will not fail to consider whether any measures can be devised, calculated to give increased protection to life, and to bring to justice the perpetrators of so dreadful a crime: That we lament to learn from Her Majesty, that, in consequence of the failure of the Potato Crop in several parts of the United Kingdom, there will be a deficient supply of an article of food which forms the chief subsistence of great numbers of the people; the disease by which the plant has been affected having prevailed to the greatest extent in Ireland: Humbly to thank Her Majesty for having adopted all such precautions as it was in Her Majesty's power to adopt for the purpose of alleviating the sufferings which may be caused by this calamity; and to assure Her Majesty, that Her Majesty may confidently rely on our co-operation in devising such other means for effecting the same benevolent purpose as may require the sanction of the Legislature: To express our acknowledgments to Her Majesty for informing us, that Her Majesty has had great satisfaction in giving Her Majesty's assent to the measures which have been presented to Her Majesty from time to time, calculated to extend commerce and to stimulate domestic skill and industry by the repeal of prohibitory and the relaxation of protective Duties; and for Her Majesty's gracious intimation that the prosperous state of the Revenue, the increased demand for labour, and the general improvement which has taken place in the internal condition of the country,
 64 To assure Her Majesty, that, in compliance with Her Majesty's recommendation, we will take into our early consideration whether the principles on which we have acted may not, with advantage, be yet more extensively applied, and whether it may not be in our power, after a careful review of the existing Duties upon many articles, the produce or manufacture of other Countries, to make such further reductions and remissions as may tend to ensure the continuance of the great benefits to which Her Majesty has adverted, and, by enlarging our commercial intercourse, to strengthen the bonds of amity with Foreign Powers; and that Her Majesty may rely on our desire that any measures which we may adopt for effecting these great objects may be accompanied by such precautions as shall prevent permanent loss to the Revenue, or injurious results to any of the great Interests of the Country: Humbly to thank Her Majesty for the gracious expression of Her full reliance on our just and dispassionate consideration of matters so deeply affecting the public welfare: To express our cordial concurrence in Her Majesty's earnest prayer that, with the blessing of Divine Providence on our Counsels, we may be enabled to promote friendly feelings between different classes of Her Majesty's subjects, to provide additional security for the continuance of Peace, and to maintain contentment and happiness at home, by increasing the comforts and bettering the condition of the great body of the people.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said: Sir, I think it necessary to rise at an early period of this debate, in order to offer to the House an explanation of the course which I thought fit to adopt during the late changes in the Administration which have been brought so prominently before us. In order that I might be enabled to lay this explanation before the House at this early period, I applied to the right hon. Baronet opposite, to lay before Her Majesty my humble application, that I might state in my place in Parliament the circumstances which induced me to take
 96 97 London Gazette, London Gazette, 98 99 100 101 "Chesham Place, Dec. 16, 1845. "Lord John Russell presents his humble duty
 102 "Sir Robert Peel's letter to Your Majesty, communicated to Lord John Russell at Osborne House, offers the support of Sir Robert Peel to his successors, provided their measures should be founded on certain principles, which are there explained, and framed in a spirit of caution and forbearance towards the interests to be affected. "The measures which Sir Robert Peel had in contemplation appear to have been—a present suspension of the duties on corn; a Repeal of the Corn Laws at no remote period, preceded by a diminution of duties; relief to the occupiers of land from burdens by which they are peculiarly affected, so far as it may be practicable. "Upon full consideration of these proposals, Lord John Russell is prepared to assent to the opening of the ports, and to the fiscal relief which it was intended to afford. "But upon maturely weighing the second proposal, namely, that by which duties would, after a suspension, or temporary repeal, be reimposed and again diminished, there appear to him to be grave objections to such a measure. "The advantage given thereby to the land appears to him more apparent than real; the uncertainty of prices in future years would be aggravated, and the prospect of a complete free trade would be still kept in the distance; the prospect alarming the farmer, and the distance irritating the merchant and manufacturer. "In this view he finds that many persons deeply engaged to the maintenance and support of the agricultural class entirely participate. "So great an object as the settlement of this question, might indeed have been held sufficient to justify the support of Sir Robert Peel's Administration, had they proposed such a measure. But, as Lord John Russell is placed at present, he could not himself propose a measure against which the weight of argument, as well as public opinion, appears to him to preponderate. "Had the harvest been plentiful, and corn cheap, it might have been very advisable to have diminished the duties gradually; but the restoration of a duty after suspension, has all the appearance of the re-enactment of a protective law. "Lord John Russell humbly submits to Your Majesty, that should the proposal of an immediate repeal, instead of immediate suspension and ultimate repeal of the Corn Law, preclude Sir Robert Pool from affording that support to the new Government which he so spontaneously and handsomely offered in his letter of the 10th of December, Lord John Russell must humbly decline the task so graciously confided to him by Your Majesty. "Lord John Russell concurs with the reasoning of Sir Robert Peel, which shows the inexpediency of pledging him to the outline of a series of measures. "The measures for fiscal purposes, therefore, would have to be considered in detail by those alone who may be in Your Majesty's service. "Lord John Russell trusts that Your Majesty will attribute the reluctance which he feels to undertake the Government, without a previous knowledge of the opinion of Sir Robert Peel, to the extent here stated, to his very deep sense of the injury the country may sustain from the rejection of a measure of such vital importance, and not to a desire to obtain a security for those who may be in power" 103 "Whitehall, December 17, 1845. "Sir Robert Peel presents his humble duty to Your Majesty, and takes the earliest opportunity of acknowledging the receipt of Your Majesty's letter of yesterday, which reached him at a late hour last night. "Sir Robert Peel feels assured that Your Majesty will permit him humbly to refer to the communications which he has addressed to Your Majesty, since his tender of resignation, as an evidence of his earnest desire to co-operate in a private capacity in the adjustment of the question of the Corn Laws. "In the letter of Lord John Russell to Your Majesty, he expresses his concurrence in the reasoning of Sir Robert Peel, which shows the inexpediency of pledging Sir Robert Peel to the outline of a series of measures connected with the settlement of that question. "Lord John Russell requires, at the same time, that Sir Robert Peel should give assurances, which amount substantially to a pledge, that he will support one of those measures, namely, the immediate and total repeal of the Corn Laws. "Sir Robert Peel humbly expresses to Your Majesty his regret, that he does not feel it to be consistent with his duty to enter upon the consideration of this important question in Parliament, being fettered by a previous engagement of the nature of that required from him." 104 105 106 "Chesham Place, Dec. 20, 1845. "Lord John Russell presents his humble duty to Your Majesty, and has the honour to state that he has found it impossible to form an Administration. "Lord John Russell was aware from the first moment when Your Majesty was pleased to propose to him this commission, that there were very great difficulties in the way, which it required the most cordial co-operation on the part of his Friends, and the firm support of a large portion of those who followed Sir Robert Peel, to surmount. "Lord John Russell has had solely in view the settlement of the question of Corn Laws by which the country is so much agitated. "Those who have served Your Majesty and Your Royal Predecessor in Cabinet Offices during the Administrations of Lord Grey and Lord Melbourne, who were now in political connexion with Lord John Russell, were consulted by him. They
 107 "Your Majesty is acquainted with all that has passed on this subject. Lord John Russell is quite ready to admit that Sir Robert Peel has been willing, from the commencement to the end, to diminish the difficulties in the course of a new Government prepared to attempt the settlement of the Corn Laws. But Sir Robert Peel could not, of course, rely on the Support of his political Friends should the proposed measure be in their eyes dangerous and unwise. "In this uncertainty of obtaining a majority in the House of Commons, it was absolutely necessary that all those who were prominent in the political party to which Lord John Russell is attached should give their zealous aid, and act in concert in the new Administration. "Lord John Russell has, in one instance, been unable to obtain this concert, and he must now consider that task as hopeless, which has been from the beginning hazardous. "Lord John Russell is deeply sensible of the embarrassment caused by the present state of public affairs. He will be ready, therefore, to do all in his power, as a Member of Parliament, to promote the settlement of that question, which, in present circumstances, is the source of so much danger, especially to the welfare and peace of Ireland. "Lord John Russell would have formed his Ministry on the basis of a complete free trade in corn, to be established at once, without gradation or delay. He would have accompanied that proposal with measures of relief, to a considerable extent, of the occupiers of land, from the burdens to which they are subjected. But he will be little disposed to insist, as a Member of Parliament, on what may seem to Your Majesty's advisers an impracticable course. The country requires, above all things, an early and peaceable settlement of a question which, if not so settled, may in an adverse state of affairs cause a fearful convulsion." 108 109 110 * * TO THE ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF LONDON. Gentlemen,—The present state of the country, in regard to its supply of food, cannot be viewed without apprehension. Forethought and bold precaution may avert any serious evils—indecision and procrastination may produce a state of suffering which it is frightful to contemplate. Three weeks ago it was generally expected that Parliament would be immediately called together. The announcement that Ministers were prepared at that time to advise the Crown to summon Parliament, and to propose on their first meeting a suspension of the import duties on corn, would have caused orders at once to be sent to various ports of Europe and America for the purchase and transmission of grain for the consumption of the United Kingdom. An Order in Council dispensing with the law was neither necessary nor desirable. No party in Parliament would have made itself responsible for the obstruction of a measure so urgent and so beneficial. The Queen's Ministers have met and separated, without affording us any promise of such seasonable relief. It becomes us, therefore, the Queen's subjects, to consider how we can best avert, or at all events mitigate, calamities of no ordinary magnitude. Two evils require your consideration. One of these is the disease in the potatoes, affecting very seriously parts of England and Scotland, and committing fearful ravages in Ireland. The extent of this evil has not yet been ascertained, and every week, indeed, tends either to reveal unexpected disease, or to abate in some districts the alarm previously entertained. But there is one misfortune peculiar to the failure in this particular crop. The effect of a bad corn harvest is, in the first place, to diminish the supply in the market, and to raise the price. Hence diminished consumption, and the privation of incipient scarcity, by which the whole stock is more equally distributed over the year, and the ultimate pressure is greatly mitigated. But the fear of the breaking out of this unknown disease in the potatoes induces the holders to hurry into the market, and thus we have, at one and the same time, rapid consumption and impending deficiency, scarcity of the article, and cheapness of price. The ultimate suffering must thereby be rendered far more severe than it otherwise would be. The evil to which I have adverted, may be owing to an adverse season, to a mysterious disease in the potato, to want of science, or of care in propagating the plant. In any of these cases, Government is no more subject to blame for the failure of the potato crop, than it was entitled to credit for the plentiful corn harvests which we have lately enjoyed. Another evil, however, under which we are suffering, is the fruit of Ministerial counsel and Parliamentary law. It is the direct consequence of an Act of Parliament, passed three years ago, on the recommendation of the present advisers of the Crown. By this law grain of all kinds has been made subject to very high duties on importation. These duties are so contrived that the worse the quality of the corn, the higher is the duty; so
 MR. DISRAELI  said: Sir, I rise with some feeling of embarrassment to address the House at this stage of the debate, as it is only since I have entered the House that I have had the advantage of reading Her Majesty's Speech; and I had understood that the great question which now agitates this country was not to be discussed on the present occasion. I thought that, under protest perhaps, we should be allowed to address Her Majesty in language closely akin to that in which Her Majesty had addressed us, and that all topics which could excite any difference of opinion might be avoided. After the announcement of the right hon. Gentleman, that an early day was to be appointed for the discussion of that question, I should have abstained from intruding myself on the House at the present moment, had it not been for the peculiar tone of the right hon. Gentleman. I think that tone ought not to pass unnoticed. At the same time I
 that when good wheat rises to 70 s. s. s., s. s. This defect was pointed out many years ago by writers on the Corn Laws, and was urged upon the attention of the House of Commons when the present Act was under consideration. But I confess that on the general subject my views have, in the course of twenty years, undergone a great alteration. I used to be of opinion that corn was an exception to the general rules of political economy; but observation and experience have convinced me that we ought to abstain from all interference with the supply of food. Neither a Government nor a Legislature can ever regulate the corn market with the beneficial effects which the entire freedom of sale and purchase are sure of themselves to produce. I have for several years endeavoured to obtain a compromise on this subject. In 1839, I voted for a Committee of the whole House, with the view of supporting the substitution of a moderate fixed duty for the sliding scale. In 1841, I announced the intention of the then Government of proposing a fixed duty of 8s. a quarter. In the past Session I proposed the imposition of some lower duty. These propositions were successively rejected. The present First Lord of the Treasury met them in 1839, 1840, and 1841, by eloquent panegyrics on the existing system—the plenty it had caused, the rural happiness it had diffused. He met the propositions for diminished protection in the same way in which he had met the offer of securities for Protestant interests in 1817 and 1825 — in the same way in which he met the proposal to allow Manchester, Leeds, and Birmingham to send Members to Parliament in 1830. The result of resistance to qualified concessions must be the same in the present instance as in those I have mentioned. It is no longer worth while to contend for a fixed duty. In 1841 the free-trade party would have agreed to a duty 112 of 8 s. Let us, then, unite to put an end to a system which has been proved to be the blight of commerce, the bane of agriculture, the source of bitter divisions among classes, the cause of penury, fever, mortality, and crime among the people. But if this end is to be achieved, it must be gained by the unequivocal expression of the public voice. It is not to be denied that many elections for cities and towns in 1841, and some in 1845, appear to favour the assertion that free trade is not popular with the great mass of the community. The Government appear to be waiting for some excuse to give up the present Corn Law. Let the people, by petition, by address, by remonstrance, afford them the excuse they seek. Let the Ministry propose such a revision of the taxes as in their opinion may render the public burdens more just and more equal; let them add any other provisions which caution, and even scrupulous forbearance, may suggest; but let the removal of restrictions on the admission of the main articles of food and clothing used by the mass of the people be required, in plain terms, as useful to all great interests, and indispensable to the progress of the nation.
 MR. SPEAKER   reported
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  was neither surprised nor deceived by the course proposed to be pursued by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, for he had so often been deceived by him on important questions of religion as well as of agriculture, that he was determined to be deceived no more. If any surprise was left on his mind at all, it was that the right hon. Baronet had not gone over before this, and joined the ignominious band of Corn-Law Leaguers. He had once said in that House, that the right hon. Baronet was the only man to save the country; but he now distinctly asserted, that if there was one man more likely than another to destroy the country, it was the right hon. Baronet.
 MR. E. BECKETT DENISON  said: Sir, I hope the House will not think me guilty of great presumption in rising to second the Address which has just been moved. The only apology which I have to offer for occupying so prominent a position is, that in consequence of the decease of a most highly respected nobleman, the late Lord Lieutenant of the West Riding, I am at this moment the single county representative of the largest constituency in the kingdom—a constituency arising out of a population of about 1,500,000 people, the chief portion of whom are occupied in agricultural, commercial, and manufacturing pursuits of almost every description and variety. They are, beyond all doubt, waiting with more than ordinary anxiety for Her Majesty's Speech from Her Throne to Her assembled
 65 66 l. l.; laughter 67
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, I would fain hope,
 68 69 70 à priori, 71 72 l.; l.; l.; l.; l.; l.; l. l. l.; l., l. l.; l., l. 73 l.; l.; l. l., l. l. l. l.; l., l. 74 75 l. s. d. s. s.; s. s.; s. s.; s. s. l. s. d.; 76 l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. l. s. d.; l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d., s. s. s. s.; s. s. d., d.; d., d.; s. d., s. d., 77 d., s. d. s. d., s. d. 78 79 "The cost of articles of food is stated to be higher than it has been since 1813 and 1814. The unfavourable results of the harvests in Podolia, Lithuania, Gallicia, the German Baltic provinces, preclude the hope of foreign aid. No alleviation of the general distress is expected before next autumn." "The supply of rye and rye-flour sent from St. Petersburg is insufficient for the relief of the Livonians, and discontent prevails." 80 "Being myself a large grower, some years to the extent of 300 acres, in Kent, where I farm, am also a salesman in London, and having been engaged largely in the retail part of the business, can give an opinion. I received a letter on the 1st instant from my agent at Ash, near Sandwich, stating that the crops were blighted in that neighbourhood the same as in October last year (it was then only partial in East Kent). On Tuesday last, I went down by the Dover eight o'clock train. On my arrival there, I immediately drove all round the neighbourhood of Sandwich, Ash, Wingham, and its neighbourhood, and found the whole of the crop, early and late, not excepting the cottagers' gardens, were being entirely destroyed. On my return, I could trace it by the side of the whole line to Tonbridge. Have since looked over the tops that come as covering on that article to the different markets, and find they are all affected. On Tuesday last, I paid a visit to my farm at Maidstone, and found it had made fearful destruction there, and returned by way of Gravesend. All were alike affected. The same evening I went to East and West Ham, in Essex. Amongst the large growers, found it was just appearing. Friday, I went to Leytonstone and neighbourhood. All are alike." "It is too certain that the potato crop in this part of the country will be a serious failure. I have obtained information from the districts extending as far as Rufford and Croston on the
 81 "You will regret to hear that the potato disease has now manifested itself in the most extensive manner in this district. Potatoes were selling ten days since at 2 s. s. d. s. d., "I am sorry to say, that in so far as my own observation has gone, the disease appears to be progressing. I have to-day examined a large quantity of potatoes grown on some of the best and dryest soils in this neighbourhood, and have not found one potato in twenty untainted, while three-fourths are quite unfit for human food. These have been carefully housed, and have never been exposed to damp since they were taken out of the ground. In Dumfries-shire also the decay is going on rapidly." 82 "Even if the crops should turn out to be as bad as is now apprehended, it is not thought that there will be any immediate pressure in the market. There will be enough saved for immediate consumption. The evil will probably not be felt in all its intensity till towards the month of February, or the beginning of spring. I am assured that there is no stock whatever of last year's potatoes in the country." "Our accounts continue to be of the most discouraging nature. They are regularly transmitted to Sir James Graham's office. One of the most embarrassing circumstances attending the disease is, that potatoes dug up to all appearance perfectly sound, after a short time begin to decay, and very soon rot altogether. Under such circumstances, it is impossible to form any decisive opinion as to the amount of the calamity." "From the accounts which reach us I should be inclined to say that the progress of the disease has, in some localities, been checked; but I dare not lay too great a stress upon this; for we constantly receive satisfactory reports of the state of the potatoes when dug, and learn, a few days after, that they have all rotted in the pits. It is this insecurity that forms our greatest difficulty. We do not know, and cannot know, the extent of the evil." 83 "We are most anxious for the result of the deliberations of the Cabinet upon the state of the potato crops in Ireland; the reports from various country gentlemen and public bodies continue to be of so alarming a nature, that it seems desirable that something should be done, if it be only to tranquillize the public mind, and diminish the panic. Everything is rising rapidly in price; and the people begin to show symptoms of discontent, which may ripen into something more. Should we be authorized in issuing a proclamation prohibiting distillation in grain? This is demanded on all sides." "It is perfectly true that I did, in my answer to the Lord Mayor, say that there was no immediate pressure in the market; but you must not give too wide a meaning to that observation, which had reference merely to his demand that the exportation of grain should be prohibited, and the ports immediately thrown open. My meaning was, that there was nothing so pressing as to require us to act without waiting for the decision of the responsible advisers of the Crown. But the danger may be upon us before we are aware of its being near; for, as I said in a former letter, the sudden decay of the potatoes dug up in an apparently sound state, sets all calculations at defiance. Some precautionary measures must be adopted, and adopted promptly; for there is danger in delay. As the digging of the potatoes advances, we see it more clearly; and I regret to say, that Professor Lindley, when he took leave of me yesterday, told me, that he doubted very much whether the potatoes would keep through the winter." "The accounts we receive of the progress of the potato harvest from the constabulary are still very unsatisfactory; but those from the resident magistrates are rather less unfavourable." "Since this letter was written, later reports have been submitted to me, in which even the resident magistrates now appear to be of opinion that the disease is extending, and the evil much greater than they had imagined it to be. The heavy rains of the last few days have done infinite mischief." "The disease progresses apparently unchecked by any of the precautions adopted; and the ill-intentioned leave nothing undone to irritate and exasperate the people. A very bad spirit prevails in many of the provinces. If we had to deal only with a short crop, we might calculate with some degree of certainty upon the time when the pressure
 84 "I beg leave to send you an extract from a Dublin morning paper, which will give you a correct account of the measures which the Council of the Society have adopted respecting the prevailing disease in the potato crop. I beg leave also to state, that when I issued a circular, about a month since, to the secretaries of about 120 local societies, in connexion with the central one, I got several answers from persons, stating that the disease was not then apparent in their immediate neighbourhood; but I have since received letters from most of them, stating that, upon digging the crops, they found the disease in almost every quarter; and I may safely say at present, that there is not a county in Ireland, that is not, more or less, affected by it. I shall barely add, Sir, that the greatest panic appears to exist in all parts of the community; and those who know the country best, are most puzzled how to act. One thing, however, I think, is certain, that enough has already transpired to justify the most prompt and energetic measures on the part of the public and the Government." "Take it, however, at the least, I do not recollect any former example of a calamitous failure being anything near so great and so alarming as the present. Generally, we have seen the means of carrying our people forward, at least, till summer approaches, and till we were within two or three months of the new crop. The case is very different now; and, in some places, I know not how the peasantry will get through the winter in very many cases." 85 "That the committee do respectfully represent to the Lord Lieutenant, that it has now been ascertained beyond a doubt that famine, and, consequently, pestilence, are immediately imminent, unless the Government shall, without hesitation or delay, take the most prompt measures to provide for the people, and to organize means for the distribution of support in each locality throughout the land. That we respectfully call upon his Excellency the Lord Lieutenant forthwith to order the ports of Ireland to be opened for the importation of Indian corn, rice, and other articles suited for human food." "During our stay in Ireland, we carefully examined such official papers as were transmitted to us from the Castle. We consulted persons acquainted with the facts of the disease. We visited the district lying between Dublin and Drogheda, and inspected various potato fields and stores in the counties of Dublin, Louth, Meath, Westmeath, and a part of Kildare. Judging from the evidence thus collected, and from what we have seen of the progress of the disease in England, we can come to no other conclusion than that one-half of the actual potato crop of Ireland is either destroyed, or remains in a state unfit for the food of man. We, moreover, feel it our duty to apprise you that we feel this to be a low estimate. We would now add, melancholy as this picture is, that, in all probability, the late rainy weather has rendered the mischief yet greater. It is also necessary to direct your attention to the quantity of seed potatoes which must be reserved for the coming year, if the cultivation of this plant is to be persevered in. We can state that, on an average, one-eighth of the crop is required for planting the same quantity of ground; so that, in fact, only three-eighths of the crop can, in our view, be at the moment assumed to be available for food." 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 "The Convention concluded with France in the course of last year, for the more effectual suppression of the Slave Trade, is about to be carried into immediate execution by the active co-operation of the two Powers on the coast of Africa. It is my desire that our present union, and the good understanding which so happily exists between us, may always be employed to promote the interests of humanity, and to secure the peace of the world;"— 95
 MR. COLLETT  said, that seeing the noble Earl at the head of the Woods and Forests in his place, he wished to put a question to him in respect to Trafalgar-square, and certainly he could not but consider that the state of Trafalgar-square and the Nelson Monument, reflected rather on the office with which the noble Earl was connected. He understood that two or three years since a foreign despot—["Order!"] had been allowed to contribute a sum of 500 l. Cries of l.
 The EARL of LINCOLN : The House would recollect that the monument was originally intended to be raised and completed at the expense of a number of individuals, who subscribed their money for that purpose. The funds raised subsequently proving to be utterly inadequate for the purposes intended, the monument remained unfinished, and about a year and a half ago Her Majesty's Government undertook to complete the work; and the hon. Gentleman would recollect that in the Session before last a Supplementary Vote was proposed and granted for this purpose, and contracts had been entered into for the completion of the design with Messrs. Cubitt; but the material being of granite, there had been a difficulty in finishing the work in the required time. With regard to the intended works of art on the base of the pillar, he had, with the consent of his right hon. Friend, placed the matter in the hands of several eminent artists for their consideration. He could only assure the hon. Gentleman, that since the Government had taken up the matter, there had been no time lost.
 MR. WILLIAMS  thought it necessary to remark that that Sessional Order came before the House annually, and yet the House had taken no steps to carry out their own Standing Order. Before they passed it they should see how far their privileges were infringed upon in the point to which it referred, and take some steps for the purpose of enforcing their orders. It was notorious to every well-informed man in the country, that they were continually and regularly violated. It was well known that in that House there were many Members elected by the influence of Peers. In many counties there were three or four influential Peers possessing large estates; and any man of information could tell how the elections would turn by knowing what candidates these Peers would support. Last night, Gentlemen who had spoken against the propositions of Her Majesty's Government threw out a challenge to go to a general election by way of testing the opinions of the country. How did they expect to carry out their intentions of gaining strength in that House except by the influence of the Peers? They well knew that without the Peers, they could not hope to defeat the Government. They well knew that the whole mass of the people of the country would support at a general election the liberal propositions made by Her Majesty's Government. For the sake of the character of the House they should not pass those Sessional Orders, without taking some measures for enforcing them when it was so well known that they were continually violated.
 MR. WILLIAMS  objected to the proposed arrangement. On the Wednesday nights the business was open to Members generally, and Bills were taken in their various stages. Motions on the Wednesdays were taken in the order in which they appeared upon the Paper, whilst on the contrary, on the nights of which Government had the control, when there frequently appeared thirty or forty Notices, any Member of the Government might upset the order, and bring any one he chose forward first. He might take the first order last, or the last first. That was a very great inconvenience to the Members of the House. He himself had often waited until three o'clock in the morning for his turn, and if he chanced to turn his back or leave the House for a moment, his business might be called on and passed by. What he had to suggest was, that Her Majesty's Government should consent to take the Orders of the Day on Mondays and Fridays in the order in which they stood upon the list. He was aware of the difficulties which surrounded the right hon. Baronet opposite in regulating the Orders; but if they were taken in rotation, he thought it would tend to the great convenience of the House.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I feel extremely obliged to the noble Lord for giving me the opportunity, if any doubt could exist after what
 132 133
 The O'CONOR DON  wished to say a few words with respect to Ireland, and the present fearful calamity which prevailed there. So far as he had been able to form any opinion, he concurred in the correctness of the accounts which had been furnished to Sir R. Peel respecting the failure of the potato crop in Ireland; and he feared that no precautions which the Government could take would avert the calamity which seemed impending over that unfortunate country. Her Majesty had been pleased to manifest Her sympathy with Ireland on the approaching distress; and he was sure that Her Majesty's feelings would be highly appreciated by the people of that country, who would give Her every credit for the feelings of benevolence with which She was animated. Her Majesty had also alluded in the Speech from the Throne to the recent frequency of assassinations in Ireland. He felt the deepest regret to be obliged to admit that there were parts of Ireland in which there was, unfortunately, too much crime, which all must deplore; and it was impossible for any words to express the abhorrence which he felt at the barbarities which were being committed in some parts of Ireland at this moment. At the same time, while he was glad to think that measures were to be proposed for the suppression of crime, he regretted to hear the right hon. Baronet state that he was not prepared to propose any measure for the adjustment of the differences between landlord and tenant. [Sir R. PEEL: I did not say so.] He understood the right hon. Baronet to say, that he was not prepared to bring forward any such measure, in consequence of his having other measures to propose of more paramount importance. Now, the impression
 156
 LORD FRANCIS EGERTON  appeared at the bar with the Report on the Address. It was brought up and read. On the Question that it be agreed to,
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I will take this opportunity of asking a question of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, with respect to the mode in which the provisions of the Act 1 and 2 Victoria, regarding Railways, are to be carried into effect. The deposits required to be paid upon such undertakings are, by the Orders and Resolutions of this House, shortly to be paid into the Bank of England to the credit of the Accountant-General, and it is required that the payment be made in money. Last year the sum so paid in amounted to three millions. It is expected that this year the sum will be as high as nine millions; and apprehensions have been expressed, that the payment of so large a sum together must cause considerable inconvenience in the money market; and that apprehension has already made great difference with regard to the time for which money is advanced for commercial purposes. I do not wish to express any opinion whether any measures might be taken to arrange the matter; but I think it desirable that the Chancellor of the Exchequer should state clearly, not only his views upon the subject, but what he intends to do, and also his reasons for those intentions. I beg to know if the right hon. Gentleman proposes to introduce any plan to alter the existing law?
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  observed, that the course adopted by him was always to give notice of the Orders of the Day which should take precedence. He thought it would not be a good arrangement if the Government were obliged to take the Orders in the course in which they were set down; for it then might happen that the one for the advancement of which there was no pressing necessity for despatch, might be brought on, whilst some measure of much greater interest and consequence would be left by. He had no observation to make upon the Order, except to suggest that during the ensuing Session on Wednesdays the House should sit at twelve o'clock in the day for the despatch of business. There would then be a greater likelihood that they would have an attendance of Members than in the evening.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I wish to explain that the question I put to the right hon. Gentleman, was not at all with a view to the benefit of parties deeply engaged in speculation, but to the guidance of others who may suffer inconvenience from the demand for money.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I do not intend to enter to-night upon the subject to which the right hon. Baronet has last alluded; but I do wish to ask him a few questions with regard to those parts of the Royal Speech which refer to our foreign relations. First, as to the Oregon question. I entirely participate in the feelings which the right hon. Baronet has expressed, that peace may be maintained with the United States of America, and may be preserved consistently with the honour of the country. But, Sir, there have been mentioned some circumstances in documents reported to be presented to the Congress of the United States of America, which I think makes it desirable to have some explanation from the right hon. Baronet. I thought last year the President of the United States assumed a tone upon this subject, and made declarations and propositions to Congress, which were not common in the usages of nations, nor becoming towards a friendly and independent country. But it would appear from the late Message of the President of the United States, and from documents he has presented to Congress, that a proposition for a compromise was made to the Representative of Her Majesty in the United States by direction of the President. I conceive that that proposition in itself alters the state of the question. I am not prepared to state whether that offer was a satisfactory or a wholly unsatisfactory one; but it did seem to me to be an opening which would require upon the part of this Government a statement of their opinion with regard to the terms upon which this country was willing to settle the question of the Oregon. I observe from the documents which I have mentioned that the proposition was not received by Her Majesty's Minister, but was declared inadmissible. I confess I think that was a hasty proceeding upon the part of the Representative of Her Majesty. I wish, therefore, to ask whether negotiations have since been resumed, and whether negotiations are now going on upon the subject? I will not ask for any of the Papers, although they have been made public by the United States Congress, to be presented to this House; but I am ready to leave the matter entirely in the hands of Her Majesty's Government until they declaim that some issue, satisfactory I hope, has been made, before I ask for any information
 153
 MR. CARDWELL  moved the adoption of the usual Sessional Orders, which were read  seriatim
 MR. BANKES  could assure the House that he had no disposition to mix up any acrimonious feeling with the important questions which now occupied their attention; and if he referred at all to circumstances which in part, and in part only, had been explained of the late strange transactions relating to the resignation and the re-appointment to office of the right hon. Baronet, it would be done, he would assure that right hon. Gentleman, in the same tone as he would use if he had the honour to meet him in his own parlour; but he merely wished to elicit some further explanations regarding transactions which were at present inexplicable. The right hon. Baronet, it appeared, had changed his opinion; but he did not understand from the right hon. Gentleman that the prospect and the apprehension of the famine to which he had referred was the cause of that change; and one point as to which they had a right to be satisfied, and on which he thought they were entitled to explanation, was the period when that change came over the mind of the right hon. Baronet; for if that was in the course of last Session, he thought the party who had hitherto considered themselves honoured in following his lead, might have cause to complain that they were not then instructed as to this change of opinion, and the alteration in his course which it might be necessary for them to anticipate. He did not understand that the right hon. Baronet's change had taken place in consequence or at the time of his apprehensions of famine. There was another point to which he would direct the attention of
 157 158 159 160 161 162 "Dignus imperare si non imperasset."
 MR. COLQUHOUN  said, that he must be permitted to ask for the indulgence of the House for a few minutes—not upon his own account, for he felt that he individually had no claim upon that indulgence—but because in what he should say, he know he would be expressing the sentiments of others in that House as well as his own. And he would, in the first instance, clear the way by expressing the sentiments which he held upon one of the questions raised last night—the question of agricultural protection. His opinions upon that subject had always been moderate. He had twice voted with the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, for inquiry into the Corn Laws; and he had done so with a view of obtaining and preserving a moderate yet a certain amount of protection to British agriculture. He had ever been desirous of reconciling the various classes and interests of the kingdom, and he knew that if protection were extravagant it could not be permanent. He might have been wrong in his opinions, but they had always been moderate; and having said thus much of his individual views upon the question of protection, he would not enter upon the points raised last night by the noble Lord the Member for South Lancashire, and by the right hon. Baronet. He confessed, however, that when he had heard some of their arguments, his fingers had itched to say a word as to their maxims of free trade.
 135 136 137 138 139 140 141 142
 MR. MASTERMAN  regretted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had felt called upon to make such a statement. He had himself pressed upon the attention of Government, in the interview he had had with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the inconvenience he was sure would be suffered
 134
 MR. BROTHERTON  hoped hon. Members would attend and make a House tomorrow, and not keep Her Majesty waiting, as they did last year.
 MR. HUME  said, he considered himself called upon to say a few words in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. Member who had just sat down. The speech of the hon. Gentleman was in no sense applicable to the present question before the House. He, for one, approved highly of the conduct of the right hon. Baronet, and he most essentially differed from the sentiments put forth last night by the hon. Member for Shrewsbury, when he declared in the face of that House and of the country, that it was the duty of every public man to be led by party, and that the leader of a party was not entitled to alter his opinions. It was in effect saying, that though a public man discovered himself to be in error, it was nevertheless his duty to maintain it. He wholly disapproved of such a doctrine. He paid ten times more respect to, and would honour fifty times more, the declaration of the right hon. Baronet, who said that for years he had been mistaken—that he was convinced the principle on which protection was based was wrong—and that the arguments in its favour were altogether untenable. Such
 143 144 145
 MR. MANGLES  observed that the Chancellor of the Exchequer seemed to have taken a one-sided view of the question. He appeared to think that parties engaged in railway speculations were the only persons interested in the matter, and that Government ought not to step forward to relieve them from the consequences of their own imprudence. The right hon. Gentleman forgot, or did not know, that the question affected the whole commerce of the country. He (Mr. Mangles) happened to know that within a few days some parties had found difficulties in obtaining the usual pecuniary accommodation, because those who granted such accommodation, under ordinary circumstances, would not part with their money in ignorance of what the coming crisis might produce. The real object in requiring the deposit of money, was to be certain that speculations in railways were really undertaken by parties who intended to carry them out; and, for the sake of arriving at that single fact, the whole commerce of the country was to be thrown into considerable embarrassment. He did not exaggerate the matter when he said that great commercial difficulty would be occasioned.
 MR. WAKLEY  must say that he thought the arrangement most objectionable; and nothing could be more unwise or more likely to be detrimental to the public interest. If he understood the arrangement correctly, independent Members of the House, who had measures to advance which were not supported by the Government, or in which the Government were not interested, were to assemble on a Wednesday at twelve o'clock, and pursue their labours until six in the evening; and after that period the Government were to be at liberty to bring in their measures. Then he was to understand that the House would rise at six. And the usual dinners were to be enjoyed after that hour.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  said, as a Member from Ireland, knowing the state of the country, he could vouch for the truth of the statements made last night by the right hon. Baronet; and especially as to the condition of those parts of Ireland which were usually the least subject to distress. At least one half of the potato crop had failed in the part of the country from which he came; and, in the course of a few weeks, a scarcity of the most frightful nature would be the result. The poorest people had suffered most. Potatoes
 163
 SIR R. INGLIS  said, few people were more alive to the importance of maintaining peace with all the world than himself; nevertheless, he could not but consider it a happy circumstance, that the observations of the hon. Member for Montrose were received with an unanimous cheer from both sides of the House; for it showed that the people of this country were prepared to bear any burden rather than have the lives, the property, the honour of the country assailed for a single moment. He must congratulate his right hon. Friend, and the House generally, on the demonstration made upon the first proposal to increase the national defences.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  objected to the proposed arrangement on many grounds. He understood that from twelve to six on Wednesdays was to be devoted to Private Business, or rather business that was not connected with the Government. Now his noble Friend had, within the last half-hour, given notice of one of the most important Motions which could be brought under the consideration of the House; and if it was the intention of Ministers to absent themselves from the House on a Wednesday,
 131
 SIR R. INGLIS : The House had from time to time passed the rules to which the hon. Gentleman had referred, to prevent a Peer from interfering with the election of Members of Parliament; but the hon. Gentleman was not content with objecting to the proposition as voted, but wished to prevent, by more stringent means, the still further interference of noblemen with the election of Members of Parliament. Was he prepared to disfranchise a Peer of that hereditary right which he enjoyed in common with his fellow subjects, of voting for the election of Members of Parliament? Was he prepared to establish a maximum scale, and to say that a large landowner ought not to interfere with elections, and that this privilege should be left to the 40 s. 129
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  had expressed a wish, in the course of the last Session, that the course proposed by the noble Lord who had just sat down should be adopted. He wished the House to sit from twelve o'clock to six. He thought that such an arrangement would be the best.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  thought that the course hitherto adhered to was the best. There were frequently thirty or forty Orders of the Day on the list, and they could not adopt the course of taking them in the order in which they stood. It would be impossible to set them down in the order in which they should be taken; but he would have no objection to stating, on the
 130
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  did not see why it should be supposed that the Members of Her Majesty's Government would be necessarily absent. He believed that no hon. Member of the House had been more regularly in attendance than his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department; and in case of a Motion of the importance alluded to by the hon. Baronet being brought forward, the Members of Her Majesty's Government would certainly take care to be present.
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, I never entertained any apprehensions that the contrast which might be drawn between the language used by Her Majesty with regard to the settlement of the unfortunate dispute that still prevails with the United States, and the language which has been held, I regret to say, by the Chief Magistrate of that country—I never thought that that contrast would be mistaken or misapprehended. We have no hesitation in avowing our sincere desire, for the interests of this country—for the interests of the United States—for the interests of the civilized world—to continue to make every effort which is consistent with national honour for the purpose of preserving peace. We have met that language, I think, in a temperate manner, and with, I hope, the most moderate, and temperate, and sincere professions of our earnest desire peaceably and amicably to terminate this dispute. I said on a former occasion, I never had any doubt that our intentions or our language
 146 147 148 149 150 151 superbiam quœsitam meritis, hauteur; 152
 SIR R. PEEL : I beg to state, in reference to the remarks of the hon. Member, that my attention and that of the Government has been occupied with this question: but all I can say to the hon. Member on the subject at present is, to ask him to put his question to me in a few days hence. I can assure him that I did not mean to imply that it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government not to bring forward a measure on the subject.
 SIR R. PEEL : With respect to the first
 154 155
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he had reason to believe that Her Majesty would be prepared to receive the Address at half-past two o'clock to-morrow.
 SIR T. FREMANTLE  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend an Act for the extension and promotion of Public Works in Ireland. The apprehension of a deficiency of food in that country in the ensuing spring and summer, rendered it important that every encouragement and facility should be given for the employment of the people in Public Works and otherwise, and this Bill was prepared with a view to facilitate that desirable purpose. He had also another Bill to propose on an early day, namely, a Bill to amend the Draining Act in Ireland, and afford greater facilities for carrying its provisions into operation. It was his intention to introduce, during the next week, a Bill for the construction of small Piers and Harbours in Ireland, with a view to the encouragement of the fisheries in that country. There was no subject which deserved more attention and consideration than the encouragement of the fisheries in Ireland; and this Bill was the more necessary as there were many remote parts of Ireland in which there were no great resident proprietors to encourage the fisheries, which might be made available for giving employment to the people and producing profit to the country. When they considered that one of the evils which was dreaded in Ireland was a deficiency of food, the benefit would be admitted of a measure, which, besides encouraging the employment of the people, would go directly to increase the supply of
 164
 ADMIRAL DUNDAS  wished to know from the hon. Member (Mr. Corry) whether the arrangement contemplated some time ago with respect to the allowances to officers retiring from the navy had been carried out?
 MR. CORRY  said, that the number of officers signifying their willingness to retire on those allowances was not sufficiently great to enable the Admiralty to carry the plan into operation, but the Admiralty had the subject still under consideration.
 MR. WILLIAMS  begged to be informed whether it were proposed to take the usual securities for the return of the moneys so advanced, or was the sum to be a grant?
 MR. WILLIAMS : As the hon. Baronet who had just sat down, by looking in his face when speaking of the laughter with which he had been met, and the false political economists, appeared to direct his allusion to him, he would beg leave to offer a few observations. He should be sorry to think that he had appeared unwilling to give any assistance to the people of Ireland, or not to sympathize with their sufferings; but if the principle were admitted that the people of this country were to be taxed for the relief of the occasional distress that occurred in Ireland, the present was certainly not the time for withholding it. But he did say that there were means of avoiding that public expenditure by doing justice to Ireland, by giving protection to life and property such as existed in the other parts of the United Kingdom, and by such means enabling capital to flow into the country, to bring with it its necessary consequences. He hoped when a measure of the nature under discussion was proposed, a proposition to introduce confidence into the country would be brought forward; and he felt sure that there was not a Member of the House who would hesitate to come forward in support of it.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, it seemed to him that some very important questions had been raised in this discussion. In the first place, there was the question raised by his right hon. Friend the Member for Devonport (Sir G. Grey), whether the same business which was now done by their Committees might not be done out of the House. That view had been supported by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Liskeard (Mr. C. Buller), who appeared to him to give the proposition a very strong support; but, at the same time, his hon. Friend said, he must say that it was a question which required much deliberation; and he thought that no measure could be beneficially adopted in conformity with it without taking further time for consideration. Then there was another question raised, on which the House had heard the opinion of two hon. Members, both very well qualified to give an opinion on this subject, the hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. G. Hudson), and the hon. Member for Reading (Mr. C. Russell). The opinions of those hon. Members differed very widely. The hon. Member for Sunderland said, that it would be a very strong interference on the part of Parliament to limit the amount of capital to be laid out in railways. He thought the very same thing; and that when all the landlords owning land along a line were
 205
 MR. H. HINDE  concurred in thinking the question was one of the greatest importance to the country; but he did not look on the Committee as an executive committee, but simply as one appointed to receive information, and report to the House, and he should not have thought it
 206
 The EARL of LINCOLN  said, that the hon. Member who had just sat down, as well as the hon. Member for Nottingham (Mr. Gisborne), appeared to think that the Committee which his right hon. Friend had recommended was merely to perform the same duties as the Board of Trade had performed last year, with reference to the subject of railways. But such was not the case. With respect to the map, the hon. Member had stated that the effect of its introduction would be to induce the Committee to approve of the straightest line, without reference to other considerations. Now the object of the map was this, and the object he should remark was one which had been distinctly described by his right hon. Friend;—the map was to have three descriptions of lines traced upon it, and distinguished by three different colours: the lines in operation to be of one colour; the lines which had been
 210 l.
 SIR R. FERGUSON  said he was also very sorry to find the measure of the Government gave the management of these improvements to the Board of Works; and this was his greatest objection to the Bill. The board was insufficient in numbers for a work of this nature; their surveys were too expensive; and instead of obliging and accommodating the landed proprietors, they undertook drainage whether the proprietors approved of it or not. Now, surely, drainage ought not to be forced upon the proprietors; especially when power was given to the grand juries to levy the money. He trusted that these points would be reconsidered. But he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet whether, when he talked of securing the money upon the land, he meant that it was to be chargeable on the whole estate, and whether a man's entire estate was to be dealt with in this way, to pay for an improvement on a small part of it?
 SIR R. FERGUSON : There may be a great difference between what is likely to arise, and what is calculated to arise, from the improvement.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the committees might obtain leave to sit, as before, during the sitting of the House. If there was any objection to that course, it might be stated when the difficulty arose.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I may just say that it seems agreed on all hands that the Bill should be read a first time without opposition; when we come to a future stage, I shall be prepared to state what course the Government will take.
 MR. MILES  wished for some information on the proposed plan for allowing sugar and molasses to be used in breweries and distilleries. Would the right hon. Gentleman allow the Bill, for the purpose, to be read a second time, and then refer it to a Select Committee to sit upon it  de dic in diem?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  did not think such a course would be expedient, and having conferred with the other Members of Government, he was enabled to state that such was their opinion. He was sure, however, that the hon. Member did not intend to interpose any delay; but when once the door of inquiry was opened, it was impossible to say when it could be closed. The question in the case of bonded corn was much narrower, yet the inquiry had been carried to a considerable length before the report was agreed to. The subject of the use of sugar in distilleries and breweries had been fully investigated in 1831, and since there had been no new experience, because the law had been unchanged: sugar and molasses during that period had not been allowed to be used. He had that morning communicated with the Chairman of the Board of Excise, and he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was prepared to make this proposal—that a reasonable time should be allowed, after the second reading, which would not, as he understood, be opposed; and he would undertake, on Thursday next, to lay upon the Table a full report of all the experience of the Board of Excise, both as applied to breweries and distilleries. The House would thus be in possession of all the information it could obtain, in order to enable it to arrive at a decision. As to the question regarding the duty on rum, he did not
 485
 LORD J. RUSSELL  answered, that according to the provisions of the Bill introduced last night, those paupers who were unable to work from age, from permanent infirmity, or bodily defect, would be entitled to relief from boards of guardians. For other classes of paupers, provision was made for particular cases. As to enforcing relief, supposing the guardians to refuse to carry the law into effect, he believed some further power would be required; and if that opinion were confirmed, it would be introduced into the Bill. On the subject of vagrancy, the hon. Member was aware that it was a very important one; and he (Lord J. Russell) thought that further legislation would be necessary, but no Bill for the purpose was now ready.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  entirely concurred in what had been stated by the right hon. Baronet opposite. He assured the House that the fullest information would be laid before them.
 MR. FOX MAULE  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to abolish poundage now deducted from Chelsea pensioners. He observed, that it would not be necessary to occupy the attention of the House for more than a short time. What was called poundage, was paid by every man in Chelsea Hospital who was entitled to a reward for long service, wounds, or decrepitude: they had been deprived of it nearly one hundred years ago, and he was disposed to think that it was at that time just and equitable to deduct it. Previous to the year 1754, discharged soldiers had pensions allotted to them on the 1st of
 486
 MR. F. MAULE  had readily given way to the hon. Gentleman opposite; and although the House would not be able to command his services on committees, yet, from the speech which he had just delivered, the House would see that they had gained a valuable Member in the person of the hon. Gentleman, whose experience and advice on such matters would be most important. He believed that there never had been a more important committee than that which the right hon. Baronet had proposed, and he thought it should have been selected with great care, because the right hon. Gentleman himself would admit that questions of a vast deal greater importance were to be referred to the proposed Committee than ever had been referred to a committee before; and, in fact, of greater importance than ought to be submitted to a committee at all. The right hon. Baronet proposed to submit to a committee the decision of the amount of capital which should be limited for making railways. Now this, he thought, should have come in a direct way from the Government—from the Financial Minister of the Crown, and he thought it of the greatest importance that the Chancellor of the Exchequer should be placed in his official capacity on such an inquiry. He was of opinion that all portions of the Empire where railways were going on should be fairly and equally represented in that Committee. Now, he did not find that that part of the country to which he belonged was so fairly represented as it ought to be. This had, personally, no influence with him, as he had
 203
 COLONEL ANSON  wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman proposed that his Committee should take evidence, in order to enable them to decide on the merits of different lines? If so, where would be the end of their labours? The Session of Parliament would be at an end before the Committee could finish what they had to do. What he would propose was, to allow the different railway schemes to proceed as before, and pay their deposits. They should also be allowed to go before the Standing Orders' Committee, and be thoroughly sifted and drafted
 214
 MR. ESCOTT : I hope, Sir, without meaning any discourtesy to you, I may be allowed to repeat the question which I put a little while ago, as to the future intentions of Government with respect to their support or opposition to this Bill?
 MR. B. ESCOTT  heartily agreed in the suggestions which had been made by the right hon. Gentleman; but there was a statement which had been made by the hon. Member for Knaresborough, and not denied on the Ministerial side of the House, upon which he (Mr. Escott) wished to have a distinct understanding. He wished to know whether the hon. Member for Knaresborough had rightly interpreted the intention of Government to support the Bill, or whether the Government intended at some future stage to exert themselves in opposition to it, or whether, as was perhaps the more probable case, it was not to be made a Government question at all? He was aware that some Members of the Government had expressed an opinion in favour of a measure of this kind, and others of them against it; and he presumed, therefore, that it would be made an open question, on which the Members of Government would take that side which each deemed most essential to the public interest. He felt quite sure that he would receive a dis-
 498
 MR. ESCOTT , having received no answer to his question, begged to repeat it. [ Cries of Renewed cries of
 CAPTAIN LAYARD  should belie his feelings if he did not express his satisfaction and delight at the course Ministers had taken. These gallant and worn-out warriors had the highest claim, and it was fit that those claims should in every way be acknowledged, and to the fullest extent.
 MR. CHARLES BULLER  said, he looked upon this matter as one of so great importance, that he would make no apology, even at this period of the evening, for addressing a few observations to the House upon the subject. He trusted that the question of the railway management would be brought under the consideration of the House at a period when a comprehensive plan for a more perfect system could be taken into consideration. It must be borne in mind that the appointment of railway tribunals out of the House was, in fact, transferring their powers to another body; and he hold that it was a proceeding of great importance, and that the House ought to look with the greatest deliberation at all the bearings of such an appointment, before they consented to part with any portion of their jurisdiction. He could not, at the same time, with every desire to preserve the jurisdiction of Parliament, come to any other conclusion than that the proposal of the two hon. Members who had preceded him might be adopted, though it would materially affect the authority of Parliament. The mode of forming election committees was a very different matter, and bore no analogy to this; but with regard to railway committees, he would say, that if the House were to give up its authority to the Government on the question, it would be depriving the people of England of their legitimate rights, and he, as a Member of that House, of his local authority. He recollected last Session that some of his constituents waited upon him, and as he did not trouble himself much in these matters—for, in fact, he took no trouble in any thing he could avoid—well, these gentlemen requested that he would interest himself in behalf of the Cornish Railway, which was about being made in the neighbourhood of Liskeard; but he told them, that he could not interest himself, as there was no chance of his having any thing to do with
 197 198 199
 MR. C. RUSSELL  did not anticipate, with the hon. Gentleman the Member for Sunderland, the evil effects from the proposed Committee which had resulted last year from the decisions of the Railway Department of the Board of Trade. As he understood the right hon. Baronet, there was no similarity at all in the line of investigation. It was the duty of the Board of Trade to investigate the merits of different lines, and although they devoted vast labour and ability to it, and although he was not one of those who imputed improper motives to them in the opinions which they gave, still he thought they had undertaken a task which it was impossible for men to encounter; and they could not arrive at safe and sound conclusions upon the matters under their consideration. The object of the Committee now proposed, as he understood it, was not to investigate the merits of any particular line, but to ascertain whether it were not possible to postpone some of the measures, and to consider whether some large general, just, and universal principle might not be devised, by which
 204
 MR. SPEAKER : You are out of order in speaking twice.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it was competent to agree to all the names, except that of Mr. Henley.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  had a great distaste for what were called commissions; and he still retained that distaste for such enormous sums of the public money to be paid away for these commissions. His humble opinion was, that they were nothing more or less than Government jobs. It was evident, from the speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down, that he purposed paying by the job, and not by the day; so that after this commission had concluded its sittings, it would be necessary for another committee to be appointed to inquire how far the commission had usefully employed their time before they received one sixpence of the public money. Far be it from him to entertain any unfavourable feeling against any of the Gentlemen who had been proposed by the right hon. Baronet to form this Committee; but what he had done on a former occasion, he felt it to be his duty to do again. Individually, he cared nothing about it; but he stood there to represent a great body of the people, and on their behalf he claimed the right of demanding that neither of the members of the proposed Committee for the investigation of the important schemes to be brought before them, should be directly or indirectly interested in them. Parliament should not sanction measures which would tend to destroy industry. Some hon. Members talked of the public good; but they only meant one word for the public, and two for themselves; and he hoped they should not again see such measures discussed in a House of twelve or fifteen Members. He was a protectionist; and he believed the right hon. Baronet was not. He wished to protect our native industry; and he repeated that he hoped no hon. Gentleman who might be interested would be placed on the Committee, but that each Member of it should be called to the bar of the House, and made to declare that he had no interest in any railway whatever.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  asserted that no man in the House was more anxious than he was to provide employment for, and alleviate the distress of the people of Ireland, consistently with his duty as a Member of that House. But he was anxious to ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland—and he hoped that he would speak distinctly, for there were hon. Members near him (Colonel Sibthorp) who heard him as indistinctly as himself—he should like to know what was actually going to be proposed in the nature of Public Works in Ireland? He liked nothing to be done in the dark in these days of darkness. He held in his hand the Thirteenth Report of the Commissioners of Public Works in Ireland, and he found no less than eleven statements of different works there. He wanted to ask the right hon. Baronet whether that grant of 50,000 l. 185 l.
 MR. CARDWELL  believed the subject explained itself. He believed a very general feeling had been expressed, on both sides of the House, that such an experiment should be tried. The hon. Member opposite had admitted that the resolutions were good in theory, but he feared they would be bad in practice. He only hoped he should be allowed to try the experiment; and if it did not answer, let it be abandoned. With regard to the latter objection about the sitting of committees, he
 233
 MR. CARDWELL  said he did not think it necessary to say a single word in bringing forward the Resolutions of which he had given notice, except to state that he believed it would not be necessary to persevere in moving the Fourth Resolution, namely, that if a House was not formed by a quarter past twelve, it should stand adjourned. With this exception, the Resolutions he had put on the Notice were, with a few verbal alterations, precisely those he would now move:—
 "That the House do meet every Wednesday at twelve o'clock at noon, for Private Business, Petitions, and Orders of the Day, and do continue to sit until six o'clock, unless previously adjourned."
 MR. FRENCH  expressed his satisfaction that the right hon. Gentleman had stated that no intention existed on the part of Her Majesty's Government to interfere with the progress of the different railway bodies, and that they would be permitted, after doing every thing in their power to comply with the Standing Orders, to proceed in the ordinary course. It would manifestly he a great act of injustice to prevent the promoters of such Bills from going before Committees of the House. Notwithstanding the very great number of plans and sections which had been deposited with the Board of Trade, he entertained no fear that those projects which would come before the Committee would be too much for the strength of the House; but of the eight hundred and odd railway schemes which had complied with this branch of the Standing Orders, he was sure that nothing like one hundred would eventually be proceeded with. When the House took into consideration the very late period of the Session when they began with the Railway Bills last year, having been obliged as they were to wait for the Report of the Board of Trade, and when they reflected that they could now begin business at a comparatively early period, he did not think there was any reason to apprehend that the House would be unequal to the task imposed upon it.
 MR. FRENCH  said, that to meet the views of the right hon. Baronet, he would abstain from discussing the merits of this Bill before he saw it in print; but there were a few remarks he might make in reference to what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet. In the first place, this appeared to him to be the Bill of the Commissioners of Public Works, and not the Bill of the Government; and, had the right hon. Baronet turned his attention a little more to the subject, he would have found that it was very undesirable to entrust the working of such a measure to the Board of Works. The right hon. Baronet had stated that very numerous applications had been made, under the Drainage Bill of 1842, to the Board of Public Works, which, owing to certain accidental circumstances, had not been attended to. In this he was perfectly correct. No doubt, many such applications had been made; but the right hon. Baronet had not drawn the right conclusion from this fact. On the contrary, he knew that very beneficial drainages had been executed in King's County, in the county of Westmeath, and one in which his hon. Friend the Member for Kildare was concerned. These had been executed under the provisions of the Act of 1842, and in the most beneficial manner possible. Indeed, the greatest possible benefit had been derived from this measure; and he would state, from his own experience, as well as from conversations he had had with other proprietors, that it was a great mistake to suppose that the measure had been comparatively inoperative. In the case of one drainage in the county which he had the honour of representing, the requisite deposit was paid, and application was made to the Board of Public Works to put the provisions of the Act in force in that district. They sent down their surveyors and other officers: large sums had to be paid in the shape of fees; and the estimated expense of draining the district came to a sum over 6,000 l. 228 l. 229 230 l.,
 MR. G. BANKES  rose to put two questions to the Secretary for the Home Department. The first related to the circular issued from the Home Office last autumn, adressed to magistrates in quarter-sessions, respecting the relinquishment of punishment by transportation: in future it was stated to be the intention of Government to provide punishment at home. His first question was, whether the plan was matured, and if so, when it would be laid before the House?
 MR. BANKES  observed, that his second question related to juvenile offenders, and he was desirous of knowing whether Government had formed any plan for amending the mode of conducting proceedings against juvenile offenders, and for their treatment as well before as after conviction, in a manner more suitable to their age, and less hurtful to their morals?
 MR. HUDSON  said: I am afraid I am not one of those very disinterested indi-
 200 201 202
 SIR H. W. BARRON  only regretted that the vote was so very trifling. [ Laughter. 187 l.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  hoped that the House was not about to stop at such a grant as that. It would be but a drop of water in the ocean as compared with the wants of the country.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that irrespective of other questions, the Committee would be called on to decide no less a question than what was the maximum sum which the Legislature would allow to be
 211 212
 MR. MORRISON  said, that the principal complaint was, that if the whole of the capital which would be required was to be invested in the construction of railways which were projected, that then this Committee proposed by the Government would be wholly unnecessary; but that if only a certain amount of capital was to be so applied, it was said there would be no difficulty in the matter, and that the appointment of the Committee was superfluous. His hon. Friend the Member for Sunderland (Mr. Hudson), whom he rejoiced to see in the House, had stated that this country could well spare 70,000,000 l. 218 l. 219
 DR. BOWRING  did not think that the objection of his hon. Friends had been properly understood. They did not object to the security to be given for the loans; they only wanted to know, would the mode proposed remove the amount of misery expected to arise in Ireland; and they offered their cordial assistance to any measure which would be productive of that effect.
 MR. J. COLLETT  inquired whether the Committee was to be an open one—whether it would be competent for hon. Members to attend without taking part in the Committee's deliberations?
 MR. FIELDEN  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the laws relating to labour in factories, and spoke as follows: Sir, I propose to bring in a Bill with regard to the hours of labour in factories, similar, as regards persons between thirteen and eighteen years of age, in its provisions to one which the late Sir Robert Peel proposed to the House nearly thirty-two years ago—that is, I propose to limit the labour of young persons between the ages of thirteen and eighteen to twelve hours a day, allowing two hours out of the twelve for meals—that is, to ten hours actual work per day for five days in the week, and eight hours on Saturdays; and I propose to carry out this alteration by restricting the hours of actual labour to sixty-three hours in the week until the 1st of May, 1848; and after that period to fifty-eight hours in the week; and I propose, further, that the same restrictions shall apply to females above eighteen years of age. My reason for proposing this measure is, that the time of working young persons and females in factories is far too long, has been very mischievous, and, if persevered in, will become the cause of great national evils. I ask for it, also, because the people employed in factories have wished for it, and have long petitioned the Legislature to concede it to them; and because the ministers of religion, medical practitioners, and, indeed, all classes who have opportunities of observing the consequences of the present system, deprecate it as destructive of the moral and physical condition of a vast and most important class of the community. It is a question which involves the very existence of thousands who are, I am afraid, sacrificed annually for the want of those due and sufficient regulations without which the late Sir Robert Peel asserted that our improved machinery would become our bitterest curse. I will at once call the attention of the House to a document of authority on this subject, one which, I confess, startled me, though I have long been accustomed to fear the
 488 "The population of Surrey exceeded that of Manchester; yet, in seven years 16,000 persons died in Manchester over and above the deaths in Surrey; the mortality in which, from the poverty of the labourer and slighter degrees of the influences so fatal in Manchester, is higher than it should be. There were 23,523 children under five years of age in Surrey, and the deaths of children of that age were 7,364; the children in Manchester were 21,152, the deaths 20,726! In the seven years 13,362 children in Manchester alone fell a sacrifice to known causes, which it is believed may be removed to a great extent, and the victims in Liverpool were not less numerous. Other parts, and particularly the towns of England, are similarly afflicted." "The returns of the past quarter prove that nothing effectual has been done to put a stop to the disease, suffering, and death in which so many thousands perish. The improvements, chiefly of a showy, superficial, outside character, have not reached the homes and habits of the people. The house and children of a labouring man can only be kept clean and healthy by the assiduous labour of a well-trained, industrious wife, as any one who has paid the least attention to the subject is aware. This is overlooked in Lancashire, where the woman is often engaged in labour from home. The consequence is that thousands, not only of the children, but of the men and women themselves, perished of the diseases formerly so fatal for the same reasons in barracks, camps, gaols, and ships." "Of the 121 persons, 53 were children of one year and under; and of these deaths of infants, the causes were certified by a medical attendant in only 28 cases. It is to be feared that many at this age are lost for want of medical assistance and care of the mother, who is soon obliged to leave her child in other hands, and go further to engage in constant and unwholesome toil. The child sickens, and is soothed by opiates." 489 "In all Manchester there is but one children's dispensary, and this has but two medical officers. Such institutions should be numerous in large towns, and much good might be effected; but the unfortunate out-door occupation of the women, by causing the withholding of nature's nutriment from the children is terribly destructive of the latter." "In Manchester 13,362 children perished in seven years over and above the mortality natural to mankind. These 'little children,' brought up in unclean dwellings and impure streets, were left alone long days by their mothers to breathe the subtle sickly vapours, soothed by opium—a more 'cursed' distillation than 'hebenon'—and when assailed by mortal diseases, their stomachs torn, their bodies convulsed, their brains bewildered, left to die without medical aid, which, like hope, should 'come to all,' the skilled medical man never being called in at all, or only summoned to witness the death and sanction the funeral." 490 491 "If this measure were staved off for but one twelvemonth, he was assured that the admissions that had been made upon this subject would change the views of the working classes, and, instead of seeking for a law to compel short hours for their labour, they would see the superior advantages of leaving the question to be settled by the mutual arrangement of master and man, under such circumstances as would not cause a diminution of the wages." 492
 MR. PARKER  said, that the question really was, whether any plan could be devised for the disposal of the private business in a satisfactory manner, or whether they were to leave a greater number of remanets at the end of this Session than at the termination of the last Session of Parliament. He believed that persons interested in the success of railway projects would be much better satisfied if the House would tell them to go home and save their money, when there was no reasonable prospect of the schemes being taken into consideration, than if they were to keep them dancing attendance till July or August at an enormous expense, and after all send them home with the uncertainty whether they would ever be allowed to appear again. The right hon. Gentleman had taken a very wise course in proposing the appointment of a Committee, and he trusted that he would have the fortitude to persevere. There would be a great advantage in the present year in appealing from the railway world drunk to the railway world sober. He was quite sure that a great number of persons who had embarked in these schemes would not be dissatisfied by their postponement for a time. His view of the matter was this—that parties had planned a great number of schemes, because they knew that if they did not, others would take the ground from them. He agreed with the right hon.
 215 Nemo tenetur ad impossibilia.
 MR. PLUMPTRE  expressed his regret that the 30th of November, the last day for depositing the plans, should have fallen on a Sunday. If it were in the power of the Board of Trade to have prolonged the time even for one day, they ought certainly to have done so, and thereby avoided those numerous violations of the Sabbath of which they were all aware.
 MR. RICARDO  regretted that none of the right hon. Gentlemen opposite had thought fit to answer the question of the noble Lord the Member for London. They (the Government) had said to many railway companies, "If you comply with the conditions which we propose, we will take care that your case shall be considered." Several companies had complied with those conditions, and it was now proposed to put those companies in the same position with those which had not complied with the conditions as they had been required. The right hon. Baronet had spoken of a map which he was to lay before the Committee; but the effect of that proposal on his mind would be, that if he (Mr: Ricardo) was concerned in a railway line, he should write to his engineer, telling him not to mind in the line which he projected tunnelling, or anything else of that nature, but to draw a straight line on the map, and the straightest line would be likely to be considered the best. The result of the course proposed would be
 209 laughter from the Ministerial Benches
 MR. TRELAWNY  opposed the introduction of the Bill. He said he admitted the evil which existed, still he thought it right to protest against a measure which would militate so much against the interests of commerce without being advantageous to any class. If they legislated for those employed in factories, they should also take into consideration the hundred thousand female servants in London, who were most severely used by their masters and mistresses. An hon. Member beside him said they had not petitioned; but he
 494
 MR. TRELAWNY  begged to withdraw his opposition to the first reading, in deference to the opinion of the House.
 MR. HUME  would only add, to what had been said by the right hon. Baronet, that to act in the way recommended by the hon. Member for Tavistock, would not be doing justice to his own principles, because what he, as one of the supporters of the same views as the hon. Member, asked for was, that the subject should receive the fullest investigation. He held the opinion, which he had formed after the most mature consideration of the question, that masters and labourers should be at liberty to make what agreements they thought fit with respect both to hours and to wages. It was upon this principle that the House had swept away seventy or eighty Bills which had interfered with labour. He asked the House, then, to allow the subject to be fully discussed. He was perfectly satisfied that out of the discussion they would receive a great deal of information, even from those who conscientiously believed that the Bill would do good. In his opinion, it would do great injury even to the parties who were seeking it. He had received a great number of communications from different persons, all wishing that the subject should have the fairest and fullest discussion, and he hoped it would not be refused.
 MR. HUME  could only say, that it was because he had in his possession reports that took away from him all dependence on the mode in which public money was expended, that he offered the remarks he had just made. When the Parliament and the British public had come forward with large subscriptions to aid the poor in Ireland, he was able to show that a large portion of that money had gone to pay rents to the landlords. He was aware that terrible as were the sufferings of the people at the period he was speaking of, the approaching time, there was reason to fear, would be more severe than was anticipated. He merely wished that they should not adopt a dangerous principle. However, after the assurances of the right hon. Baronet, be would not oppose the Motion.
 MR. HUME  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet whether he intended by that vote to admit the principle that the public money was to be applied for the employment of the people? He recollected that, on former occasions, the admission of such a principle had been most sedulously avoided. The question he had to ask the right hon. Baronet was, to what purpose the money was proposed to be applied? Was it to be to the employment of the people? What good, he would ask, had arisen heretofore from such grants? He thought it desirable that it should be shown by specific accounts what relief those votes had before given to the people, or whether they had not rather been made available to the purposes of the landed gentry, for the building of a bridge, or something of the like sort. In England and Scotland every man was employed, and there was no necessity for votes of public money. Why was it not so in Ireland? The state of that country was attributable to misgovernment and bad legislation; and he protested against that mode of finding employment for the people, whilst other causes, which prevented their employment, were suffered to exist. By so doing they would only lend their assistance to perpetuate the state of things which now exists. If such a principle were to be established, he did not see why they should not act similarly towards Stockport or Paisley, or other places where distress might reign. He thought they should be informed how former grants had been applied before they agreed to the one at present sought for. He should be the last man to stop a vote which should give employment to the people of Ireland; but he thought that before the Imperial Parliament gave its assent to such a principle, other steps should be taken to
 186
 MR. HUME  said, there was this one difficulty. A Member might be on a committee, and might not be allowed to leave that committee; there might be a question before the House in which he was particularly interested; either as proposing or promoting it; and he might not be able to attend in the House to promote it. In such a case, he hoped hon. Members would be assisted as much as possible by questions being postponed, for the purpose of admitting of the attendance of those who had particular business.
 MR. HUME  rose and said, he had been in a difficult position sometimes, through not knowing whether there was to be a House or not; but the difficulty started by the hon. Member was a real difficulty, and they ought to know what was to be done. It ought to be understood whether, on all Wednesdays, the committees were to sit or not. Government ought to state the view they had, and not leave it, as it was now, open to daily discussions. It was highly desirable that they should come to some understanding.
 MR. HUME  moved an Address to Her Majesty—
 "For a Copy of the Minutes of the Trustees of the National Gallery during the years 1845 and 1846, with the names of all the Trustees present at each Meeting: Also for Copies of the Orders and Instructions to the Keeper of the Gallery respecting the Cleaning of the Pictures, and any directions in respect to their arrangement; and of any other Documents relating thereto."
 MR. P. M. STEWART  could not wonder, after the experience of last year, at the apprehensions which some hon. Members entertained as to the possibility of getting through their business. Last year they had had a preliminary inquiry of that House, assisted by the Board of Trade, whose proceedings ran to such a length that the 20th of April arrived before a single line got into committee, and the consequence was, that, using all the despatch of which they were capable, it was impossible to get through the business. Immense as the business was which threatened them at present, he had no doubt, if they applied themselves with despatch to it, that they could get through it better than they did through the limited business of last year. He was anxious that no time should be lost, and that the right hon. Baronet should urge his Committee not to make a number of reports from time to time, but to come forth at once with their final report, that the parties before the House might know what the course of business was to be; and he must say that it was a little reflection on them as men of business, that at that time they should still be deciding upon what course they should have to take. As, however, they had not yet resolved upon a course, they must now decide what they should do; and they must remember that whatever they determined on this Session would be applicable to the Bills of next year; for they might depend upon it that next Session as many Bills would be presented for their consideration as would be brought before them this year. Were they not intersecting the country from the north to the south, and from the east to the west? The extent of turnpike roads in England and Wales was immense; and if those roads were to be replaced by railroads, it was quite clear that every succeeding Session of Parliament for a long period would bring before the House additional and necessary plans of railway lines of communication. They would require this railway communication instead of the communication by turnpike roads; and therefore he thought that they ought not to disparage this desire to provide lines of railway communication, but to hail it as a source of national wealth and power. He agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Sunderland, that the House ought not to be deterred by figures; and for his part he thought the expenditure named by the right hon. Baronet would not meet the exigencies of the case. The addition to
 208 l.;
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  expressed his concurrence in the views taken of this subject by the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. J. Parker); and, adverting to what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard (Mr. C. Buller), thought it was well worthy of consideration whether it would not be advisable to supersede altogether Committees of that House as tribunals on Railway Bills, and to appoint a Government Commission for that purpose—a Commission to be composed of men who, from their experience, skill, and capacity, coupled with the position in which they would be placed, would be above all suspicion, and at the same time most competent to deal with the subject-matters which would be brought before them. He had himself been one of those patriots to whom allusion had been made, who had sacrificed eighty-four days of the last Session in a Committee on one group of Railway Bills; and hence he could fully appreciate the necessity which existed for some different
 216 217 in limine,
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, that one point only of the very able statement of the noble Lord last night was not quite clear: it respected the permanent system of increased relief to the poor of Ireland; and he wished to know distinctly whether any security would be introduced into the Bill that the relief might in all cases be effectually afforded?—whether, for example, a board of guardians, like that of Castlebar, would be able to refuse relief at discretion? Was a right of relief to be introduced in any practical way? A second question he wished to put was, whether the new law was intended to be accompanied by any act to prevent mendicancy and vagrancy in Ireland?
 MR. GISBORNE  had listened with much attention to the speech of the right hon. Baronet, but he was sorry to say that he had not derived much information from it. It appeared to him that the intention of the right hon. Baronet was to throw on a Committee what last year was the duty of the Board of Trade, and that a certain number of these schemes should, on the authority of the Committee, be stopped  in limine. 194
 MR. W. R. COLLETT  thought that the House had a right to ask Her Majesty's Government what was the exact proposition which they were going to submit to the Committee. He did not mean to say that he expected the Government to explain the details of the proposition; but they ought to acquaint the House with its general nature. The hon. Member for London (Mr. Masterman) had said in a former debate, on Friday last, that great inconvenience would arise in consequence of the determination of the Government to adhere to the Standing Orders with regard to deposits. He had already felt great inconvenience himself from this source, not as a railway projector, but as an humble banker; and he was quite sure that the same inconvenience must have been felt elsewhere. He wished to know whether the country was to go on much longer in the same way, as he was satisfied that every day would add to the inconvenience which had already been suffered. He should feel it his humble duty to oppose the appointment of the Committee, unless he knew the exact object for which it was to be appointed. He was still of opinion that a commission out of the House would satisfy the public more than any of the railway committees consisting of Members of the House, which sat last year; although he was sure that those Gentlemen had done their duty to the best of their ability. A commission
 213
 MR. COLLETT  wished to know from the hon. Gentleman whether the committees were to sit by permission of the House, or in spite of the House. Suppose the House met, and there was not a sufficient number of Members to constitute a House, were the committees also then to adjourn, because the usual resolution would not be passed, giving them leave to sit during the sitting of the House?
 MR. W. R. COLLETT  said, he thought the course now proposed would be found in some respects a very inconvenient practice; he alluded to the difficulty of procuring a proper attendance of Members. The generality of the Members of this House had some kind of occupation of their own; they were persons not likely, on many occasions,
 232
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  expressed his
 487
 MR. FERRAND  did not wish to enter into the discussion of the subject. He rose merely to remark, that the object of the hon. Member who had just addressed the House, seemed to be to show that the Legislature had no right to interfere with him in walloping his own ass. He begged to remind that hon. Member, however, that the Legislature had passed a Bill for the protection of animals; and he (Mr. Ferrand) did not see, when they prevented harshness and cruelty to animals, upon what ground the poor factory workers should not have the same protection extended to them. It was said two or three Sessions ago, by an hon. Member who was now in the Cabinet, that there was no strike among the operatives in favour of the Ten Hours Bill. The fact was, that the workmen were anxious to obtain protection, if possible, without a strike. They came to that House year after year asking them to grant protection to their wives and daughters; and he thought, with the First Minister of the Crown, that that protection ought to be given. Nay, more, he thought that it would be a disgrace to the world to allow the present system to continue any longer; and he was glad that the hon. Member for Oldham had brought the question again before the House. He was delighted also to hear that it was probable that the Bill which his hon. Friend introduced, would receive some support from Her Majesty's Government; at least, so he understood from a speech that had been made by the Secretary of the Admiralty to his constituents at Sheffield. If this were the case, the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) would excite a feeling of grati-
 495
 MR. FERRAND  said, that if the right hon. Gentleman insisted upon adhering to this Committee, he had nothing more to say; but he must protest against it as being an unfair selection.
 MR. FERRAND  objected to this list, as not being a fair representation of the sentiments of the House. He found that out of fifteen names, it contained nine of Gentlemen of Liberal opinions, and only six of Conservatives, or Tories, or some other name; for he really did not know what the Gentlemen attached to the late First Lord of the Treasury called themselves. If he only knew what were their principles, he would know better what to call them. But, at all events, he did not think it was fair to have so large a majority of persons holding one class of opinions. There was another fatal objection to the list. It contained the name of Mr. Hindley in place of Mr. Henley, and he considered that the right hon. Gentleman could not proceed with it without giving a fresh notice.
 SIR C. NAPIER  said, he understood that there were seven or eight sail of the line at Lisbon, and two in the Channel; and he wished to know whether there were any intention to take out the guns and marines, and to employ the vessels to import food into this country on merchants' account?
 SIR G. GREY  had no definite plan to lay before the House on that subject. The disposal of juvenile offenders after conviction, would be included in the papers which, he hoped, would be in the hands of Members in a few days.
 SIR G. GREY  said, the subject of suspending transportation as a punishment had undergone much deliberation; and he hoped in a few days to lay before the House papers showing what were the intentions of Ministers: they would convey to Members a knowledge of the principle but not of the details. The intention was to make all spare accommodation in prisons available; and it would be necessary to bring in a Bill on an early day.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  remarked that the Bill which the hon. Gentleman had just introduced was similar to that which had been introduced last Session, with the ex-
 493
 SIR G. GREY  hoped the Government would have some of its Members on the proposed Committee, as it was only proper that it should be represented on the proposed body, and the views of the Government known. The adoption of any principle upon which a selection was to be made, was, in his opinion, a most important function, and particularly with reference to such Bills, for which the time for going before the Standing Orders' Committee was now so limited. In respect of these Bills, he did not think the proposed Committee could act fairly, unless a greater amount of time were afforded them. There was one thing, however, which he hoped had not escaped the Government, and that was the consideration or adoption of the suggestion thrown out by the hon. Member for Sheffield—namely, that it would be desirable, as far as possible, without touching the jurisdiction of Parliament, to carry on all inquiries as to matters of fact, traffic, local affairs, &c., before some tribunal out of that House. He would only remind the House of the length of time occupied during the past Session by the inquiry of the London and York Committee as a proof that some such course as that referred to would be most advisable and convenient. Beside, there were a great number of Irish and Scotch Railway Bills, the expenses of which would be considerably lightened by having some such tribunal, before which their witnesses might be examined, and thereby prevent the necessity which now existed of summoning them here before a Parliamentary Committee. All the work connected with such business would be, by the adoption of some such plan, not only done with greater convenience to the House, but greater advantage to the public.
 SIR G. GREY  remarked, that he had taken pains, as he thought, to make as near as possible a fair representation of
 500
 SIR G. GREY  moved that the following Gentlemen be appointed as the Select Committee on the Law of Settlement: Mr. C. Buller, Sir J. Graham, Mr. Bankes, Mr. J. E. Denison, Sir G. Grey, Mr. Hindley, Mr. T. Duncombe, Lord H. Vane, Mr. P. Scrope, Mr. W. Miles, Mr. C. Villiers, Mr. Borthwick, Mr. C. Round, Mr. Aldam, and Mr. Bodkin.
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  expressed his satisfaction that the hon. Member for Oldham had brought forward this measure at so early a period of the Session, so as to give them the fullest opportunity of calmly and fairly considering a question of so much importance to the working classes of this country. For himself, he must say that he considered the Ten Hours Bill a just measure. The only arguments he had heard against the interference of the Legislature upon this most important subject, were those which were usually urged by those who emphatically called themselves political economists. Now, he thought that, rightly understood, political economy afforded the rules of sound reasoning for the government of legislation; but there was a certain sort of political economists who never listened to reason on this subject, and who carried their argument to an extreme that did not apply to the question now under discussion. The argument of the hon. Member for Tavistock, for instance, just amounted to this: he said, "Don't interfere with the labour of the young people working in the factories, because if you do, why don't you also legislate for the female servants throughout the city of London?" The hon. Member did not seem to see that the two cases were utterly dissimilar. The Legislature was called upon to interfere on behalf of young persons who could not protect themselves,
 496
 MR. H. G. WARD  remarked, that the question belonged to the Government in general, rather than to the department of the Admiralty in particular. No application had been made to the Admiralty for assistance of the kind; but the subject having been brought under the notice of Ministers on the general principle, it had been thought that if 3,000 or 4,000 tons of shipping were lent for the purpose, it would throw as many tons belonging to private individuals out of the market. It had, therefore, been decided that it was unadvisable to interfere.
 SIR H. DOUGLAS  also stated his entire satisfaction at the proposed change.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, it was morally and physically impossible for the House of Commons to attend to railway legislation alone, even if they had nothing else to occupy their attention, if the same system were to be pursued which was followed up last year. Under any circumstances they would, at least, have three times as much railway legislation during the present Session as they had during the last; and they might have six times as much if all the projects before Parliament were proceeded with. He agreed with the right hon. Member who spoke last, that it was quite possible to establish a tribunal to which
 196 l. l.
 SIR R. PEEL  trusted that the information which this Committee would be enabled to collect and convey to the House from time, to time, in its reports, would be found most advantageous. He considered it better to avoid going into any more particular details on the present occasion, as it might be more expedient not to express any more decided opinion, which might be
 195
 SIR R. PEEL : Mr. Speaker, Her Majesty's Government have felt it to be their duty to avail themselves of the earliest opportunity of calling the attention of the House to the large number of railway plans which will probably be brought under its consideration; in order to take its opinion as to the best mode of dealing during the present Session with the great question of railway legislation. The attention of the Government has been directed to this subject for some time past, and they have collected together all the information which they think at all likely to be advantageous in its investigation; but they have at the same time felt it their duty, in a matter affecting so many private interests, rather to appeal to the authority of a Committee of the House of Commons than to submit any plan of our own for solving the railway difficulty which must ensue during the Session. As the organ of the Government, therefore, it is my duty to propose that a Select Committee he appointed to consider the mode in which the House shall deal with the Railway Bills proposed to be submitted to the House during the present Session. The Government have been
 189 l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l., 190 l. 191 192 193 "That a Select Committee be appointed to consider the mode in which the House shall deal with the Railway Bills proposed to be submitted to the House during the present Session."
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  begged to assure the hon. Gentleman that every information he should require upon the subject should be most freely given. Nothing could be further from the intention of Her Majesty's Government than to permit the interests of individuals to be attended to or promoted by the outlay of such votes as the one under consideration. If the hon. Gentleman would look into the case, he would find that Parliament had placed a discretionary power in the hands of the Government with regard to the expenditure of those grants. They were not called upon to make particular disclosures with respect to the manner in which they were expended. For several years past it had been customary to vote sums of money to be so placed at the disposal of Government; and he could say that the present would be the last year they would be called on. But there were reasons which he could not at present explain for not entering into detail on the present occasion.
 SIR R. PEEL  was understood to reply, that the Committee would be a select and secret one.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, nothing which had passed in that debate had tended to shake his conviction, that Her Majesty's Government had pursued a proper course in availing themselves of the earliest opportunity of calling the attention of the House to the possible difficulties in which they might become involved, unless they took immediate notice of the immense amount of railway legislation which was now impending over them. He thought it was the clear duty of Government to submit the matter to the House, without, however, proposing any final plan upon the subject. They would remember that it was one of grave import—one which involved the privileges of Parliament, and one upon which Government could not, consistently with their sense of duty, submit any elaborate scheme, without referring the matter to the consideration of the House. He conceived that the duty of Government with reference to the matter was to suggest some course, by means of which the practicability of respective schemes could be discussed; and as that course could not be pursued with advantage in a Committee of the whole House, he proposed the formation of a Committee of those hon. Members whose attention had been directed to the subject, and who would be thus the most competent authority for discussing and reporting upon it. He was quite certain, that had he brought forward a scheme on the part of Government, objections would have been raised to the discussion by the whole House on its merits. He would have been told that he should rather have referred the matter to a Select Committee. He had anticipated this recommendation, at the same time he had thought it best not to prejudice the consideration of the Committee by stating the views of Government as to what ought to be its decision. Objections had been urged as to the appointment of such a tribunal. They had been told to wait—that they need not interfere—and that the crisis would pass away as it had arisen. But what were the facts of the case? It had been said, that no interference was necessary; for that not more than 100 or 200 Bills would be proceeded with. There were, however, 710 Bills deposited, involving capital to the amount of 300,000,000 l. 220 l. 221 l. l. 222 223
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, I regret that the hon. Member for Tavistock has intimated his intention of resisting the first reading of this Bill. I retain the opinions which I have held heretofore on this question. I retain those opinions, not because I am indifferent to the interests of those who are employed in factory labour, but because I entertain a sincere and conscientious conviction that we are not promoting their permanent interest by interfering in the manner they would wish us; and yet it is, as I think, perfectly consistent with the maintenance of those opinions that I should express regret at the present opposition of the hon. Member. In discussions of this kind, feeling enters as well as reason. To reject the Bill at this stage, would not be respectful to that great class of society whose welfare it is our duty to attend to. I thought there was a general impression at the commencement of this discussion, that leave would be given to bring in this Bill; that, in short, the same course would be followed this year as was followed the last year; that we should wait until after having seen the Bill, when we could apply ourselves to its discussion in a way in which the merits of the question could be entered into more fully than we can possibly do now. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State, on the part of Her Majesty's Government, abstained from entering into the discussion, in the expectation that leave would be given to bring in the Bill. That was my own impression; and I think that, if ultimately the House should come to a decision on it adverse to the wishes of the parties, it would still be most desirable that that opinion should be taken after due consideration of the matter, and in a manner which would conciliate their feelings. I am, therefore, although entertaining the opinions I expressed last year,
 497
 SIR R. PEEL  begged leave to second the Motion. The trustees had no other object than to give the fullest information to the House of Commons, who had always behaved so liberally and generously to them. He thought the hon. Member had pursued a proper course in refraining from comments until he was in possession of the papers. The Motion, he believed, was for a copy of the minutes for the last two years. As he had already said, there could, of course, be no objection on the part of the trustees to supply the fullest information. There had been a meeting of the trustees the other day, and in consequence of the observations which had been made elsewhere, they had called upon the gentleman under whose imme-
 499
 SIR THOMAS FREMANTLE  rose to move for leave to amend the Drainage Acts in Ireland. It would be in the recollection of the House, that in the course of last Session he submitted certain Amendments of that Act; and he stated at that time that he was not prepared to go into the whole question, not having sufficient experience upon the subject; but having had one or two points brought under his immediate consideration, he submitted them to the House, and which were adopted. He was now prepared to submit still further Amendments to the Bill, which he hoped the House would sanction. He had thought it his duty at an early period of the present Session to bring before the House measures of this nature. He had thought that the most effectual way for improving the condition of the people of Ireland, both socially and morally, was promoting measures for their education and their employment. For these objects the Legislature had already passed various measures; it was not necessary, therefore, that he should bring forward any new measure; all that was required to effect this purpose was to extend the law already in existence. This extension might be very
 224 225 226 "To amend the Acts for promoting the Drainage of Lands and Improvement of Navigation and Water Power, in connexion with such Drainage in Ireland, and to afford facilities for increased employment for the Labouring Classes in Works of Drainage during the present year;" 227
 SIR T. FREMANTLE  was ready to give the hon. Gentleman every possible information; and he would endeavour to make himself audible. That vote was to be in addition to the sum before granted for Public Works in Ireland, and he had stated, when he was previously on his legs, that those other grants were nearly exhausted. And if the hon. Member had given him notice of his intention to ask the question, he should have been prepared to reply more fully.
 SIR T. FREMANTLE  replied that the sum of 50,000 l. l.
 SIR T. FREMANTLE  had looked at the whole state of the country, and the sum would be found not to be so insignificant as the hon. Baronet imagined. He (Sir T. Fremantle) had stated on Friday night last the sum of 50,000 l.
 SIR THOMAS FREMANTLE  moved—
 "That the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland be authorized to direct advances to be made out of the Consolidated Fund of the said United Kingdom to an amount not exceeding 50,000 l.,
 SIR T. FREMANTLE  said, there might be a difference, but they must trust to the Board of Works to make proper calculations. The hon. Member opposite said that the Board of Works had too much to do, and that they could not undertake the drainage of the whole of Ireland. He quite approved of that; he did not wish them to undertake all the drainage; he should be much better pleased if the country gentlemen of Ireland would undertake the drainage of their own lands. Nothing would please him better than that. The machinery at present in existence did not work well; he should be happy if he would improve it; and if the hon. Member could devise any better plan, nothing would satisfy him more than to abandon this proposal altogether.
 SIR T. FREMANTLE  said, in reply, he certainly did not think it at all requisite to depart from that security which they already had. Where parties had lent money to a landlord, or anybody else, for the improvement of his estates, it was a debt due by him; and it was certainly no
 231
 VISCOUNT CLEMENTS  begged leave to differ from one expression of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and who appeared to forget or to have paid very little attention to facts when he spoke of taxing the
 188
 MR. S. O'BRIEN  entreated the right hon. Baronet to consider whether that day fortnight would be too soon to take the discussion? [Hon. MEMBER: No!] He would remind the right hon. Gentleman that the agricultural interest was the least able to assemble together, and as to which the longest time was required for those connected with it to ascertain the opinions of the general body. The right hon. Baronet had referred to some advantages that were to accompany the proposal. Whatever opinion the farmers of England might form upon that head, it was impossible that their voice could reach the Legislature in less than a fortnight. That House was now in its fifth year, and, whatever changes there might be in the opinion of those who came into power immediately on its assembling, it was most important for those who might be prepared to support the right hon. Gentleman, even though they might run counter to the opinion of their constituents, to be no parties to hurrying a measure of this kind through the House before the opinions of the constituencies could be known. Considering the time it had been usual to give for the consideration of measures of similar importance, surely one little fortnight was not too much to ask for this. And he was sorry that the other side, who said that they had all the argument and popular feeling with them, should seem to shrink from discussion by opposing that request.
 MR. S. O'BRIEN  remarked that as he was the Gentleman behind the hon. and gallant Member, who had been alluded to as having voted without giving reasons for so doing, he (Mr. O'Brien) wished to remind the hon. and gallant Member, that having reasons to give, and the propriety of giving them, were matters of distinct consideration. If, however, the hon. and gallant Captain wished to serve the right hon. Baronet, he (Captain Rous) would not allude to former votes or sentiments—he
 300 s. veteres revocamus amores 301
 The EARL of MARCH  said he could not think of trespassing on the time or attention of the House, at that late hour, by entering into a consideration in detail of the arguments which could be adduced against the changes which it now appeared were in contemplation; but he could not forbear saying that never, in the whole course of his existence, had he been so
 311 312 "He was not about to excuse himself for his vote upon that question. He then thought that the amount of protection was so excessive, that it could not be maintained; that the 23 s.
 COLONEL THOMAS WOOD  said, he did not wish to detain the House, but he rose merely for the purpose of saying a few words on the subject of agitation. He supported the proposition of the right hon. Baronet, because he thought it would tend to take out of the arena of politics a question which was now dividing the two great interests of the country—namely, the agriculturists and the manufacturers. As an humble Member of Parliament he entirely approved of the course which the right hon. Baronet had adopted, and he was determined to give him his very best support.
 MR. F. SCOTT  regretted exceedingly that the statement made that night by the right hon. Baronet was not such as to induce him to abandon the system of protection to native industry—a system which, under the auspices of the right hon. Gentleman, he had hitherto supported, and which he believed had in a great measure contributed materially to the prosperity of this country. He had given no pledges at the late election; but as he conceived a promise stronger than a bond, so he regarded an implied understanding as being to an honourable mind even stronger than a pledge. Had it not been that he thought he should be not acting on principle, he should have still followed in the wake of the right hon. Gentleman, whom he looked upon as the Gamaliel at whose feet he (Mr. Scott) ought to sit. Giving the right hon. Baronet credit for great talent and experience, still he was unconvinced by the evidence adduced by the right hon. Baronet of the necessity of the change he was about to introduce. At no former period since he had taken office were there higher wages for labour—was corn so steady in price, and so accessible to the poor. At no former period was there a greater degree of contentment; and this state of things was urged as a reason, not for continuing the course we had followed hitherto, but for abandoning that course. If the circumstances which produced the change in the mind of the right hon. Baronet were unable to convince his Colleagues, he (Mr. Scott) must question whether they would produce any change in the minds of hon. Members of that House. Abundance of corn grown in our own soil had, more than anything else, contributed to the welfare of the country. The new measures that were introduced, the improvements in chemistry, and the increased knowledge of geology, would greatly contribute to increase the produce of the soil; and if protection were only continued for ten years, our powers of production would have outstripped the requirements of the population. He could not conceive what had
 304
 MR. LIDDELL  said, that he must, at any time, feel considerable difficulty in dealing with so complex a question as that which had been submitted to the House by the right hon. Baronet; and though he rose with the greatest hesitation and diffidence, yet he trusted he might be permitted to ask for some indulgence, in order that he might be enabled to explain his opinions upon a proposed measure of such
 288 289 290 291 "The protection which I propose to retain I do not retain for the especial protection of any particular class—protection cannot be vindicated on that principle. The only protection which can be vindicated is that protection which is consistent with the general welfare of all classes in the country. My belief, and the belief of my Colleagues, is, that it is important for this country—that it is of the highest importance to the welfare of all classes in this country, that you should take care that the main sources of your supply of corn should be derived from domestic agriculture; while we also feel that any additional price which you may pay in effecting that object is an additional price which cannot be vindicated as a bonus or premium to agriculture, but only on the ground of its being advantageous to the country at large." 292 293 s. d. s. d.; s. s.; Gazette, s. d.; 294 295 296 297 l.
 CAPTAIN ROUS  said, that when the right hon. Baronet was surrounded by such questionable friends—when in the neighbourhood of Gentlemen who had not yet made up their minds as to which side of the House they would honour with their notice—it might not be unacceptable for
 298 s. 299
 MR. S. HERBERT : I think it will be most becoming in me, and that it will be most agreeable to the House, if I do not in this stage of the proceedings enter at any length, or in any detail, into the grounds on which I have formed my opinions on the question now before the House, and which have induced a change in the opinions upon these great commercial subjects which I have advanced year by year. I say, in the first place, that this will be the most satisfactory course to me and to the House, because in the discussions which will come on I shall be able to state explicitly, simply, and amply, all the reasons which have weighed with
 313 314
 LORD G. BENTINCK  was understood to say that the right hon. Baronet was well aware that the average price of wheat for the last seven years was 58 s. d.; s. 305 s.; s. d. s. s. d.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : It is not my intention to enter at present into the subject before the House. I wish only to understand whether, when this discussion recommences, the other Resolutions with regard to manufactured articles will be considered immediately after the Resolutions with regard to Corn, or whether we shall proceed to dispose of the Corn Resolutions before entering upon the consideration of the others?
 MR. ESCOTT  expressed his satisfaction that the consideration of the proposal was to be adjourned for a fortnight, as, in that interval, the constituencies of the country would have an opportunity of declaring their sentiments. He would not attempt to comment on the speeches of the right hon. Baronet and other hon. members; but he would, in one word only, express his extreme thankfulness to the right hon. Baronet for having embodied in his proposition that remission of the duty on Indian corn, of which he had given notice last year. For since he had given that notice, he had made further inquiries into the question; and the result had been such as to satisfy him that, for the interests of both the farmers and the farm labourers, in reference to which the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken had expressed himself so feelingly, no one measure could possibly be proposed which was more likely to promote the real interests of both those classes than the one now submitted by the right hon. Baronet. He was exceedingly glad the scheme embodied the resolution he had referred to; and he hoped that not only would hon. Members employ the fortnight that was to intervene in making themselves acquainted with the proposition; but that the country at large, when they saw the great advantage which it would produce to the agricultural interest, would look on it with particular favour, and that it would be carried by a decisive majority.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  hoped the hon. Member would not class him with those who thought that under no circumstances it could be hereafter justifiable to extend the franchise by lowering the qualification.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he was prepared to act in conformity with the course which the hon. Member who had just sat down had declared he expected would have been taken. He had intended, therefore, to confine himself to asking a single question which he thought to be of public importance, and which he had addressed to the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government. He could not, however, pass over an observation which had fallen from the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley). The hon. Member deprecated an appeal to the opinion of the country; but why, he would wish to know, did the hon. Member
 323 324 325
 MR. NEWDEGATE  asked the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government whether he had formed any estimate of what the price of wheat per quarter, or of flour equivalent to the quarter of wheat, would be in this country, when the full operation of the measure now proposed by Her Majesty's Government should have effect?
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, it was well known he was not a very warm supporter of the League, yet he had received a letter from them that morning marked "private and confidential," but which, as he did not choose to consider private and confidential, he should read to the House. The hon. and gallant Member proceeded, amidst the laughter of the House, to read the following letter:—
 MR. WODEHOUSE  inquired whether the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government had any intention to lay on the Table of the House any of those communications which had been stated to have been received from some of the crowned heads of Europe, expressing their opinions on free trade, because, as yet, the House had no assurance that any such communications had ever been received, except the statement of the hon. Member for Bolton (Dr. Bowring). He also wished to know how the moiety of the payment for medical relief, to be paid by the Government, was to be managed. In other words, how was the parish doctor to make out his bills?
 MR. G. BANKES  said, as the hon. Member had stated that he had no fear of appeal to the constituencies of the country, and as his right hon. Friend at the head of the Government had laid it down in the course of the evening that the question was one which would be entirely decided by the feelings of the country, no difference existed, and therefore there ought to be no hesitation in making that appeal in a legitimate manner. The hon. Gentleman had said, that he would have no difficulty in appealing to the agricultural constituencies. Let him, then, join with them to obtain that appeal; and they would be content to abide by the issue. His right hon. Friend (Sir R. Peel)—for, after the kind manner in which the right hon. Gentleman had alluded to his observations the other night, he thought he was justified in using that term—had said that he would convince him that this scheme gave due attention to the little interests of the country. He (Mr. Bankes) would ask, what provision was made in this scheme for maintaining the interests of the farmers in general; and, above all, of the little farmers of this kingdom? He could find nothing in it to that effect, or which appeared to have any such purpose. The compromise offered to these interests—to the tenant-farmers—was the consolidation of the highway rate, the payment to medical officers, and the provision for parochial schoolmasters; but what relief would that give to that class of persons? It had been said, that the support to the measure was not confined to the mercantile class, but was participated in by the landowners. Some of the great landowners certainly approved of it; but it was because they were great landowners, and would not suffer by the change; for, by the system of bailiffs, which was cheaper than that of tenants, they would be enabled to get their rents the same as usual. The tenant-farmers would in reality be the sufferers, because their whole class would, in all probability, be swept away by the measure of the right hon. Baronet. As chairman of the quarter-sessions of Dorset, he had received an account of the amount
 328 l. s. d.
 MR. AGLIONBY  regretted that this subject had been treated as a class question. Some hon. Gentlemen on the other side spoke as if they were the only persons who cared for the agricultural interest; but since the propriety of abolishing the Corn Laws was mooted in 1832, he had known many hon. Members who were not only wholly unconnected with commerce or manufactures, but who derived their subsistence entirely from landed property, who were the strenuous and consistent advocates of a repeal of those laws. He believed that the Gentlemen connected with the Anti-Corn-Law League had, by reason and argument, made many converts to the same opinions, even among the county constituencies; and he believed that, a few years hence, the conduct of those Gentlemen would receive the approbation it so justly merited. The only objection he had to the efforts of the League was, that they had treated the question rather too much as a class question than as a general question. But, however that might be, they had done great service by enlightening the people of this country on the subject of protection. Had the right hon. Baronet treated the question as a class question, he should have felt bound to oppose his view of the case; but as the right hon. Baronet had treated it, he looked upon it as a great step made towards free trade; for which, as it affected the best interests of the country, he tendered the right hon. Baronet his most cordial thanks. He believed, also, that a large mass of the agriculturists would do the same, because he was satisfied they would find the benefit from it returned to them a thousand fold. He (Mr. Aglionby) conceded to the hon. Member for Wiltshire, that it was highly desirable that the malt tax should be removed; but at the present time he was not disposed to press its repeal upon the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government. Before
 327
 MR. CURTEIS  thought the right hon. Baronet had very unnecessarily provoked the hop-growing counties in proposing merely a reduction of duty, when he might have received their support had he repealed the duty altogether. He represented the largest body of hop-growers in the kingdom; and he would, in their name, say—Give us perfectly free trade in hops, and take off all protective duty on foreign hops! He called upon his hon. Friends the Members for Kent and East Sussex to see justice done to the hop-growers; and let them not be doubly flogged, both as to corn and as to hops. He came down to the House, expecting the right hon. Baronet would propose to reduce the duty on corn; and that he would have fixed a duty, in the first instance, of 6 s.,
 MR. BENETT  thought the right hon. Baronet had forgotten the interests of those who consumed the hops. He came down to the House with the full expectation that the right hon. Baronet would have proposed a repeal of the malt-tax altogether. It was a tax which fell most peculiarly on the labourers of the country. Malt was a necessary of life to them. It was a most oppressive duty, and its repeal would have been a boon, not only to the agricultural interest, but to the labourers. He was deeply disappointed that the right hon. Baronet had not made any such proposition. The object avowed for repealing the Corn Laws used to be that it would reduce wages; but the right hon. Baronet had now said that you could have high wages and low prices. He knew the contrary from long experience. He knew that the price of labour had always followed the price of provisions. But new doctrines were now laid down—doctrines contrary to those laid down by the right hon. Baronet himself in former days. But these new doctrines were contrary to those of Adam Smith, and of his own experience. He had always contended, and would still contend, that the labouring classes might, consistently with the interests of every class, enjoy all the common luxuries of life; and he certainly had expected that the right hon. Baronet was going to give them the power to enjoy them, but he had been grievously disappointed. Still, he hoped the right hon. Baronet would recon-
 318
 MR. BENETT  said, as he had been asked a question by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, he would state that he had come to the House perfectly free; he had given no pledge, and expressed no opinion; he had purposely abstained from it, thinking he might possibly consider it his duty to vote with the right hon. Baronet in what he did propose. He had pursued an honest course for forty years, in public as well as in private, and nothing should have induced him to do that which he could not have done honestly and conscientiously. He had certainly expected more from the right hon. Baronet; but he was perfectly free now, if he approved of the proposition, to vote for the repeal of the corn tax. The only pledge he had given was to do that which he considered the best for the people of this country. He had not attended a single meeting in favour of agricultural protection, either in the country or in London; nor had he given a single intimation, by word or letter, to anybody, how he should vote on this occasion. His hon. Friend talked of agitation, and seemed to think the friends of agriculture were about to agitate. Had the hon Gentleman never heard of agitation before? Had no agitation been going on the other side? Had not the emissaries of the League been sent into every village? He had had them in his own village, at his own
 322 s.
 MR. HUME  could assure the right hon.
 286
 Mr. P. HOWARD  said, he had listened with attention to the many able and elaborate explanations given by the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir R. Peel), and he confessed that he thought the equivalent offered to the agriculturists, in lieu of protection, was rather less than he could have wished; yet, considering the circumstances of the country—considering, also, the success which had hitherto attended free-trade measures—he was prepared to give his assent to the Resolutions to be submitted to-night; and he would beg of the agriculturists to consider whether a measure of this kind, prepared by a strong Government, with the sanction of the Crown, could ever, in the long-run, be defeated. For them the wiser and more salutary course would be to enter into the discussion of these measures with a view, if possible, to secure the adoption of such modification as, without materially diminishing their popularity, might render the shock consequent upon the change less sudden and less violent. He thought the period of three years too limited, and that the minimum of protection was rather scanty, for Mr. M'Culloch, the greatest of free-trade authorities, in his celebrated pamphlet or treatise on the Corn Laws argued on the supposition that a fiscal duty of 5 s.
 MR. GISBORNE  wished to offer a remark in reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member the Coroner for Westminster as to the Members of the Anti-Corn-Law League having received the explanation of the right hon. Baronet with solemn silence. [Mr. WAKLEY: Stubborn silence.] It might be stubborn; but on a subject of so complicated a nature, and involving such a vast number of subjects, it was scarcely possible to express an opinion without having some time allowed for deliberation. He had himself left the House perfectly satisfied that hon. Gentlemen on the bench opposite, who still continued so strenuously to oppose any alteration in the Corn Law, would require at least a fortnight to consider the measure, and that they had no intention of raising a debate on the subject that evening. It was merely by accident that he happened to hear that such a debate was going on, and he returned to the House merely to listen to it. He was sure that hon. Members connected with the League could not be accused of any want of respect either to the hon. Gentleman opposite, or to the right hon. Baronet, in having taken no part in the debate on that evening.
 MR. WAKLEY  begged to assure the hon. Member that he had never attended a meeting for the repeal of the Corn Laws except one, and that happened to be a parish meeting. He felt really ashamed to offer this explanation; and if it were in any way offensive to any of the Gentlemen of the League, he would withdraw it, for he felt too grateful to them to make use of any expression which, even by implication, might prove offensive in any way to their feelings. What he had stated was, that if hon. Members opposite were about to make an appeal to the feelings of the electors, they would be appealing to a class who were in reality the sellers of food; and they would thus be incurring the risk of raising the indignation of those who were the purchasers of food.
 MR. WAKLEY : Mr. Greene, I am a little surprised at the speeches we have heard from the other side of the House, because I am quite convinced it is utterly impossible that hon. Gentlemen can have heard the scheme, as propounded by the right hon. Baronet, without feeling the strongest possible approval and admiration. They cannot have heard the whole plan, as he has laid it down, without in the main points agreeing with him in the proposition he has made. There may be some points, without doubt, of disagreement; there may be some few arrangements which may call for further attention in the future
 319 320 321
 MR. GROGAN  wished to put a question, as an Irish Member, to the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury. The whole of the statement which the right hon. Baronet had made to-night was one of reductions; he, therefore, wished to know whether the right hon. Baronet would furnish a document containing a column showing the aggregate amount of these reductions, and another column setting forth the mode in which he proposed to make good the deficiency in the revenue which those reductions would occasion. Very considerable alarm existed throughout the country upon this point; and great apprehensions were entertained that the right hon. Baronet would be driven to a proposition for increasing the Income Tax. He was, therefore, anxious to know how the deficiency which would be created was to be made up.
 SIR J. TYRELL  rose on the Opposition side of the House, and said, with respect to wool, he had certainly had the honour to be one of a deputation which had waited upon the right hon. Baronet, who had, as it were, put a pistol to the head of the Duke of Richmond by a direct reference to the price of wool, and had said, that as the price of wool had risen since the abolition of the duty, why might it not be expected that there would be a rise in the price of wheat? And the right hon. Baronet had repeated on one or two occasions, that by taking off the duty on wool, there had been a rise in the price of that commodity. He had always understood the principle to be, as had been stated by the hon. Member for
 306 307 l. l. 308 309
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, there was one point on which it was important that the public should be informed. Although the right hon. Gentleman's statement was commercial, it was impossible not to see that the ultimate object involved financial considerations also. He wished to hear from the right hon. Baronet in some general terms the amount of the burden which it was proposed to lay on the country by the direct expenditure which it was intended should be assumed by the State. It appeared that not only was there to be a great remission of revenue, but also a direct expenditure of about 600,000 l.
 SIR R. PEEL : All I can say is, that whatever course can be suggested to enable the House to pronounce its judgment most effectually on the propositions I have submitted, would be by far the most acceptable course to Her Majesty's Government. If it be thought advisable to take the Corn Resolutions into consideration first, to that I will most readily assent. I will take any course which may best enable those who dissent from the Resolutions to bring out their dissent—which may be most conducive to the expression of its opinion by the House—on some great leading principle.
 SIR R. PEEL : Whatever may be the differences of opinion on this measure, I hope the proceedings will be allowed to pass to-night without any discussion of an angry character, and that the hon. Member for Montrose will forgive me if I ask him to allow me to conduct my own case. The success of measures of this kind will not be promoted by angry remarks. Monday next was suggested by some hon. Members behind me connected with agriculture, and I named a day beyond that. The hon. Member will, I am sure, see that the decision on this measure will be founded on the opinions of the great body of the community. My wish is that it should undergo the fullest discussion. On the other hand, great inconvenience would ensue to the country, particularly to the agricultural interest and those, who trade in corn, from not knowing what the result is likely to be. To meet the wishes of the hon. Member I would propose Thursday week.
 SIR R. PEEL  said he had formed no estimate.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, it did not necessarily follow that, because the Corn Laws were to be altered, therefore the averages should be abandoned. They were still necessary for determining the amount of tithes.
 SIR R. PEEL  was quite ready to give the hon. Gentleman any explanation in his power. The statement which he was about to make would be very extensive, and in some respects complicated. It would be rather a commercial than a financial statement. It was not his intention to ask the House of Commons to pronounce an opinion upon any part of the statement which he was about to make. It was his most earnest wish that the matter should be fully and sufficiently considered—that it should be judged of as a whole, as a comprehensive settlement of a great question. He, therefore, did not propose to ask any opinion whatever of the House, either upon the general propriety of the plan, or any of its details, until after the lapse of some days.
 SIR R. PEEL  said: Mr. Greene, whatever opinion may be ultimately formed with regard to the merits of the proposal which I am about, on the part of her Majesty's Government, to submit this night to the consideration of Parliament, I am confident that the extreme difficulty of the task which it devolves upon me to perform, and the great magnitude of the interests which are concerned, will ensure me that patient and indulgent attention without which it would be wholly impossible, either with satisfaction to myself or to the public interests, to discharge the duty which I have undertaken. I am about, in pursuance of the recommendation contained in Her Majesty's Speech from the Throne, advised by Her responsible servants—I am about to review the duties which apply to many articles, the produce and manufacture of other countries. I am about to proceed on the assumption adopted in that Speech from the Throne, that the repeal of prohibitory and the relaxation of protective duties is in itself a wise principle. I am about to proceed on the assumption that protective duties, abstractedly and on principle, are open to objection—that the policy of maintaining them may be defended—but that there must be shown to be special considerations, either of public policy or of justice, to vindicate the maintenance of them. I am about to act upon the presumption that during the last three years there has been in this country an increased productiveness of revenue, notwithstanding the remission of heavy taxation; that there has been an increased demand for labour; that there has been an increased commerce; that there has been increased comfort, contentment, and peace in this country. I do not say, that these great blessings have necessarily been caused by any particular policy which you have adopted; but this I say, that the enjoyment of these inestimable benefits has been at least concurrent with your legisla-
 240 241 242 l. l. 243 s. d. s. d. s. d. 244 245 interruption. 246 "Country gentlemen and farmers are, to their great honour, of all people the least subject to the wretched spirit of monopoly." "Country gentlemen and farmers are, to their great honour, of all people the least subject to the wretched spirit of monopoly. Dispersed in different parts of the country, they cannot so easily combine as merchants and manufacturers, who being collected into towns, and accustomed to that exclusive corporation spirit which prevails in them, naturally endeavour to obtain against all their countrymen the same exclusive privilege which they generally possess against the inhabitants of their respective towns. They accordingly seem to have been the original inventors of those restraints upon the importation of foreign goods which secure to them the monopoly of the home market. It was probably in imitation of them, and to put themselves on a level with those who they found were disposed to oppress them, that the country gentlemen and farmers of Great Britain so far forgot the generosity which is natural to their station as to demand the exclusive privilege of supplying their countrymen with corn and butcher's meat. They did not perhaps take time to consider how much less their interest could be affected by the freedom of trade than that of the people whose example they followed." 247 248 l. 249 s. s. s. s. d. A laugh. ad valorem. 250 s. s. s.; s. s.; s. s. 251 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d.; l. s. s.; 252 s. s. s. d. s. s. d. s. s. d. 253 s. d. s. 254 s. d. s. d.; s. d. s. d., s. d.; s. d. s. d. 255 l. l. l. s. s. s. 256 l. l.; l. l. s.; l. l. s. 257 l. l. s.; l. s. l. s.; l. s. l. s.; l. l. s. d. l. "Sir—I take the liberty of submitting to your inspection a small sample of an article called 'rice-feed,' which is very extensively used in the United States for the feeding of cattle. We apprehend that the Act 9th Geo. IV. applies to this article, and would therefore submit to your consideration whether the interests of the farmer may not render a cheap supply of it very desirable. It is the refuse of rice ground up, and is less costly than linseed-cake, which is admitted free of duty. It is an article admirably fitted for the feeding of cattle; but, as it is meal, and not grain, it is excluded, under the operation of that Act." 258 l. s. s. s. l. s. l. s. s. 259 260 261 s. 262 263 
 
 WHEAT. 
 Whenever the average price of Wheat, made up and published in the manner required by law, shall be for every quarter 
 Under 48 s. 10 s. 0 d. 
 48 s. 49 s. the duty shall be for every quarter 9 0 
 49 s. 50 s. the duty shall be for every quarter 8 0 
 50 s. 51 s. the duty shall be for every quarter 7 0 
 51 s. 52 s. the duty shall be for every quarter 6 0 
 52 s. 53 s. the duty shall be for every quarter 5 0 
 53 s. the duty shall be for every quarter 4 0 s., s. s., 264 s., s.; 265 266 "The effect of the change has been remarkable. Formerly, the expenditure under the local parochial authorities, was from 6 d. d. d. d. d. d. 267 268 269 270 271 272 273 l. l., l. 274 l. 275 l. l. l. 276 l. 277 278 l. "By countervailing the protective system," says that gentleman, in the report to which I refer, "we injure our own cause, and we sacrifice our own agricultural and commercial classes. As well might we attempt to engraft a monarchy and an aristocracy upon our Constitution, as to enforce a protective system in the United States. Let, therefore, our commerce be as free as our institutions. Let us proclaim our commerce free, and nation after nation will follow our example. If I were asked who began this system, I should answer at once, England began it by her repeal of the duty on our raw cottons, and the reduction of the duties on our bread stuffs; and although we cannot now take the lead in this enlightened policy, we may, at least, be amongst the first to perceive its advantage, and to follow it." 279 280 281 "The anticipations which we ventured to make in our last annual circular, as to the prospects of the year we had then just entered upon, were fully realized for the first nine months, during which
 282 "Our home trade demand, up to the end of September, was on an unprecedentedly large scale; but, from the causes above-mentioned, an almost total suspension took place for the two succeeding months, which have been followed since by a moderate business only." 283
 SIR R. PEEL  again rose and said: I wish to fix such a day for the discussion
 285
 SIR R. PEEL  moved that the House resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House, on the Customs and Corn Importation Acts, and that so much of Her Majesty's most Gracious Speech as related thereto be referred to the same Committee.
 SIR R. PEEL : I need not say all my feelings are in favour of affording the fullest opportunity to every party of expressing their views; I can have no objection to resume the subject on Monday week instead of this day week; and, so far as the Go-
 287 de die in diem. l.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he did not propose to make any alteration in the law as to tithes. In the first place, he was not prepared to assume that there would be any material alteration in prices. It might be so. But the same question might have been put to him in 1842; he might have been asked in 1842, when a great reduction was made in the amount of protection, whether he was prepared to make any alteration in the arrangement as to tithes. The noble Lord assumed that there would be a great falling-off in the price of corn; he did not concur in that opinion. In the case of wool, the repeal of the duty had not led to a reduction of the price of wool, and the Tariff had not occasioned a reduction of prices. He was not prepared to say, that there might not be such an increased demand for corn that it would prevent the reduction of prices. He hoped the result of the measure would be so much of increased consumption that there would not necessarily be any reduction of the prices of agricultural produce which would materially interfere with the agricultural interests. He hoped that the measure, by occasioning an increased demand for produce and for labour, would benefit the great body of the people, without any prejudice to the interests of agriculture.
 Sir R. PEEL  replied, that the charge
 315
 Sir R. PEEL : I really hope that from some of the reductions there will be an increased rather than a diminished revenue. I have already said that I consider it very inconvenient to enter into explanations on particular portions of the general proposition submitted by Her Majesty's Ministers to the House of Commons; but I may observe that it by no means follows that a diminution of duty on importation is followed by a diminution of price of the homemade article. On the contrary, it can be shown that in those years in which there has been the greatest importation of foreign produce, the best prices have been obtained for similar articles of home production. It may be taken as a rule, that in every year where the price of domestic produce has increased, there has been a proportionate increase of importation of the same articles from abroad. I have said that I
 316
 SIR R. PEEL : But I must give you an answer—and, if we were in private, I would earnestly advise the hon. Gentleman not to encourage the hop-growers in Kent and Sussex to agitate this question. The duty on foreign hops in 1842, was 10 l. l. s. 317 l. s. l. l. s., l. l. l. s., l. s. s., l. s.
 MR. W. MILES  said, he wished to ask a question, which he was quite certain would be answered by the right hon. Baronet with his usual courtesy. It was simply this—the right hon. Baronet was
 238
 MR. MILES  also urged a longer delay. He spoke not merely for the agricultural interest, but for other interests which were greatly interested in the question of the Corn Laws. Those interests had not the voice in the Legislature which agriculture had, and therefore it was highly necessary that they should have time thoroughly to weigh the new proposals. Not only for the sake of that portion of the community with which he (Mr. Miles) was connected as a representative, but for the sake of all classes, he trusted that the right hon. Baronet would see the propriety of giving some definite estimate of the results which were expected to attend the proposed reductions, and of the amount which would become chargeable on the Consolidated Fund.
 VISCOUNT INGESTRE  felt it his duty to
 302 303
 VISCOUNT INGESTRE  had listened with great attention to the speech of his right hon. Friend (Sir R. Peel), but did not hear what provision he had made for taking the averages with respect to tithes.
 VISCOUNT NEWPORT  considered that those hon. Members who intended to support the policy enunciated by the right hon. Baronet to-night, contrary to their own conscientious convictions, and the actual or
 326
 MR. O'CONNELL  said, that the observations of his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose would apply only to permanent laws—laws which were intended to be perpetual. This, however, was not intended to be a permanent law of that nature, as it was a particular Act of Parliament to regulate the expenditure of a particular sum of money, of a very limited extent he would say, and too small a sum for the purpose which it was proposed to effect by it. He would not oppose the Bill—on the contrary, he would support it; but under the protest that the Government should not, by the introduction of the Bill, be entitled to hold themselves discharged from the duty of providing against the distress which was to be expected in Ireland in a very short period. This Bill was a small instalment of that relief for which the condition of Ireland was crying out. It was impossible to exaggerate the state of things produced in Ireland by the failure of the potato crop. Indeed, it was not too much to say that
 334
 COLONEL CONOLLY  agreed with the hon. Member for Roscommon in thinking that the landed gentry ought to have a voice in the matter. He was very happy to find that the money intended to be advanced
 337
 LORD G. SOMERSET  said, that knowing well the great attention which the hon. Member for Nottingham had paid to the subject of Standing Orders relating to Private Bills, and looking at the Resolutions which had just been proposed and seconded, he must say that he was surprised that such Resolutions should have been brought forward by that hon. Gentleman. He must oppose those Resolutions, because he felt that their adoption, more particularly the adoption of that part which enabled parties to be heard by counsel before the Standing Orders' Committee, would be attended with greatly increased delay and expense to the parties concerned. Indeed, so far from employing counsel in cases where they were not required, there were many hon. Members who thought, from the great latitude in which those learned gentlemen frequently
 332
 MR. STRUTT  agreed with the noble Lord opposite in the surprise which he had expressed at the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Nottingham, from whom, from his great acquaintance with the Standing Orders of that House, he should certainly have expected better things. He took leave to deny altogether the propositions of his hon. Friend, that the Committee on Standing Orders was a sort of court of appeal, or that it was a committee of secrecy. At any rate, it was not more a committee of secrecy than the Committee on Petitions, or any other committee where evidence was not taken. The Standing Orders' Committee had the power of calling before them the promoters of the Bill, and also the chairman of the committee to which it had been referred, who, being one of their own body, would readily give them all the information which he possessed on the subject. If there were no culpable negligence, or that a party had been misled, he had no doubt that the Standing Orders' Committee would take such a case into consideration; but where there was a non-compliance with the Standing Orders, from culpable negligence, and where any party might be damnified by dispensing with them, the decision would, he had no doubt, be different in such a case.
 MR. F. FRENCH  rejoiced to hear the speech of the right hon. Member who had just sat down; and he was convinced that if facilities were afforded to the landed proprietors of Ireland they would be found ready to undertake their part in assisting to relieve the distress which threatened a large portion of its population. His chief object in rising was to endeavour to impress on the mind of the right hon. Baronet the objectionable nature of the 5th and 6th clauses of the Bill. He hoped that some deference would be paid to the opinion of the country Gentlemen of Ireland on this subject; but, judging from the clauses to which he had adverted, it would seem that the Government thought their opinions of no moment.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  said, that this paltry sum of 50,000 l. d. salus populi lex suprema 335
 MR. HUME  said, that he had looked carefully over the Bill, and he found great difficulty in arriving clearly at its meaning. It would have been better to bring in a Bill to repeal former Acts, and re-enact the necessary provisions of them in one Bill. The greatest advantage had resulted from the Consolidation of the Customs Acts by Mr. Deacon Hume, and the re-enacting the necessary provisions in one Bill.
 MR. M. MILNES  said, that in giving his support to the Bill he was anxious to express his opinion, without saying whether it was a contemptible sum or not—that it was totally inadequate for the great purpose which it was intended to effect—
 336 "Sume superbiam quæsitam meritis;"
 MR. GISBORNE  would be glad to place his views on record, by a division, if he thought that any hon. Members were inclined to divide with him; but as the general feeling of the House appeared to be against him, he would not impose upon them the trouble of dividing.
 MR. GISBORNE  rose to bring forward the Resolutions of which he had given notice, as follows, and which he read to the House:—
 "That the Committee on the Petition for each Railway Bill shall, in every case in which they shall report to the House that the Standing Orders have not been complied with, report further whether in their opinion the Standing Orders ought to be suspended, and whether the parties, under any and what conditions, should be permitted to go on with their Bill. "That where the said Committee shall be unanimous in such last-mentioned Report, or where only one Member, such Member not being the Chairman, shall dissent therefrom, such Report shall be taken into consideration by the House, without being referred to the Committee on Standing Orders. "That where more than one Member, or where the Chairman shall be dissentient from such Report, it shall be referred to the Committee on Standing Orders. "That in every case in which a Railway Bill shall be referred to the Committee on Standing Orders, it shall be permitted either to the promoters or to the opponents of such Bill, to be heard by one counsel or one agent on the points so referred." 330 331
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  inquired if it was the intention of the right hon. Baronet to bring in a Bill for amending the valuation of Ireland during this Session.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  called the attention of the right hon. Gentleman (Sir T. Fremantle) to the propriety of adopting the best means of securing the proper and efficient outlay of the money to be advanced.
 SIR T. FREMANTLE  perfectly concurred with the general observations of the hon. Member for Montrose, as regarded general alterations in the law; but those observations did not apply to the present Bill. The object of this Bill was merely to give an additional grant of 50,000 l.
 SIR T. FREMANTLE  said, that it was his intention to introduce such a Bill.
 SIR T. FREMANTLE  moved the Order
 333
 MR. WILLIAMS  understood the right hon. Baronet's proposition was that the House should adjourn over to-morrow in consequence of there being no business, and not on account of its being the anniversary of the martyrdom of King Charles I. With that understanding, he (Mr. Williams) had no objection to the adjournment. But this he must say, that nothing could be more derogatory to the present generation than an adjournment on account of the martyrdom of that tyrant ["Oh!"]. Yes, he repeated, of that tyrant, whose head was laid upon the scaffold in consequence of his superseding the authority of the House of Commons. If he had not violated the Constitution of the country by an attempt to supersede the authority of the House of Commons, in levying taxes upon the people
 370
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  could assure the hon. Member who had just sat down, that he deplored as much as the hon. Member the effect which undue speculation had had upon the innocent individuals who had embarked in them. But the embarrassment alluded to was one of the misfortunes incident not only to railway speculations, but applied to all those other mercantile speculations which had occurred at a time when railway speculation could not have been among the causes of such embarrassment. He doubted, however, whether the hon. Member had taken a correct view of the evil, or had suggested that which would afford any remedy. The hon. Gentleman said that the House, by a Standing Order, required parties to a railway to deposit a certain amount of the sum
 373
 LORD J. RUSSELL  wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman, relative to the transactions which had recently occurred at the River Plate. He wished to know whether the right hon. Baronet was prepared to lay on the Table such documents as would elucidate the transactions to which he alluded?
 LORD J. RUSSELL  had no wish to ask for the Papers showing the atrocities which had been committed, but he thought it would be necessary, for the information of the House, to produce, not only the instructions given, which were the result of previous negociations, but what were the demands which led to hostilities.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. Gentleman was altogether in error. If the money were placed to the credit of any ordinary account
 374
 LORD ASHLEY  presented petitions from various places in Scotland in favour of a measure for limiting the hours of labour of young persons in factories to ten hours.
 LORD ASHLEY , on rising to move for leave to bring in a Bill to effect this object, said: Sir, it has so often been my duty to solicit the indulgence of the House, that I may seem to be acting merely in conformity with ceremonial when I prefer my earnest entreaty for its patient attention on this occasion; but at no time have I felt it more necessary to make this request. I am about to revive the discussion of a proposition oftentimes propounded in this House, and as often rejected; one upon which I can offer no novel arguments, and which moreover was submitted to the House at a period not very distant, and was then determined and decided. I think, however, that I can assign good reasons for the
 379 380 "The produce of eleven hours at Mr. Gardner's mills was not reduced at all." "I could not understand how it was that our men could turn off as much work (and some a little more) in eleven hours as ever they did in twelve. I said to one of them, 'John, will you tell me how it is that you can do more work in eleven hours than you did in twelve?' 'Why,' said he, 'we can lay to in eleven hours a day better than we could when we worked twelve, because we get more rest at night, and we are in better spirits all the day through, and, besides, the afternoons are not so long.' He could spin, he said, ten years longer, if Mr. Gardner would keep on eleven hours." "The work is decidedly better since the change to eleven hours; when we worked twelve hours I had very often to find fault with the spinners for not making their cops hard enough. Most of our spinners are generally spinning pin cops, which have to be wove wet, and if they are not made very hard they will fly off in the weaving, and they are nothing but waste. I can say that since the change the work is decidedly better. At the present speed at which the machinery is generally run it is very hard work for the spinners to keep up and make such work as will give satisfaction, particularly where they spin coarse numbers and work twelve hours in the day." "Were the wages reduced or raised or kept at the same level in eleven hours as compared to twelve hours?" 381 "What were the effects of the change of system upon the health of the workers?" "The hands undoubtedly have better health since the change to eleven hours, and I could give you several cases of both weavers and spinners; I will give but one. Joseph Parker, a very sober industrious man, and a very good spinner, having been in the employ of Mr. Gardner for seventeen years, was so often off his work in the winter time, when we worked until half-past seven, that he was obliged to conclude that he could not stand spinning any longer. … Since the change to eleven hours he has done more work than ever he did before, and has only been off work once through sickness, which will be very soon two years." "Whenever mills worked 12 hours, the number that attended night school were 27; and a few months after the change they increased to 96. The female part of our hands turn their leisure time more to the needle, and those that are married to their domestic concerns. I believe there is a better taste for reading among the workpeople. Mr. Gardner intimated that, as he was a subscriber to the Bible Society, he wished his hands to have bibles and testaments at the society's prices; and the first week I sold myself 136 books, and every week's end I sell a few." "I can confidently say, that there is not a gentleman in all Lancashire that stands so high in the estimation, not only of his own workpeople, but of all the operatives. I will conclude by saying, first, that the present speed at which machinery is generally run, it is impossible for the hands to keep up, when they work 12 hours a day. Secondly, when the speed and time they work and the atmosphere they breathe is taken into consideration, no one will wonder at the death-like appearance of the factory workers; and if the hours of labour were reduced, it would be like giving them so much more life." "I am quite satisfied that both as much yarn and power-loom cloth may be produced at quite as low a cost in 11 as in 12 hours a day. … All the arguments I have heard in favour of long time appear based on an arithmetical question; if 11 produce so much, what will 12, 13, or even 15
 382 "I saw Mr. Knowles," says the writer of a letter, "three weeks since, and he said so satisfied was he with the change, that he never intended to work his mill any longer than 11 hours per day. He had been connected with the working of factories more than 40 years, and he always thought that the hours in factories were far too long. I asked him respecting the work turned off in 11 hours compared with 12 hours. He said, when he made the change, he never expressed any wish that his hands would turn off as much work in 11 hours as in 12; but some of the spinners did as much work in 11 hours as ever they did in 12; others did a little less, but not in proportion to the diminution of time. The difference was so little, that he had no hesitation in saying, that he did not lose one penny in the year by the change." "Six months ago we came to the resolution of employing our workpeople only 65 hours a week instead of 69. It has been entirely successful; we have had no reason to regret the change, neither have our workpeople. We make no alteration in the wages, and there never was more earned in our works than at present by those employed at work paid by the piece. We have it in contemplation now to reduce our time to 60 hours. The more I have considered the matter, the more convinced have I become, that for all parties a Ten Hours Bill would be advantageous." "The proprietor has lately been trying the ten hours' principle with his weavers, and with profit and advantage." 383 "The limitation of the hours of labour has been of the most incalculable benefit to the people in that neighbourhood, not only in relieving physical suffering, but in distributing wages over a longer period during the year." "I have been trying the ten hours' principle; I get nearly as much work as — gets, who works a longer time for the same wages. — used to work 16 hours a day; he declares that he gets more work and better work than ever he did in 16." "There has been no diminution of work in consequence of the limitation of the time for children at 16 and under to 10 hours a day."—"The salutary influence of the law on the physical as well as moral condition of the labouring classes is evident."—"There is no diminution of the wages perceptible in consequence of the limitation of the hours of labour."—"At first there was undoubtedly a very strong feeling against the law in a considerable body of the millowners; but this has literally disappeared." "Not a single remonstrance has been addressed by any one of the millowners to the Government or the provincial states, much less has any resistance taken place." "There were some malcontents. They were afraid of foreign competition; but they seem soon to have been satisfied that this fear was imaginary, the produce of the work not having diminished." 384 s. d. s. d. 385 s. d. s. d. "We also instituted an inquiry into the moral and physical condition of piecers and young persons now, as compared with the same class in 1833, and from every quarter we learn that it is much improved; and since the Bill of 1833, which restricted
 386 387 "In October, the schoolmaster opened two evening classes, one for the young men, and the other for the young women, employed during the day in the mills of —. Each class met twice in the week, on alternate evenings, and between the tours of eight and nine. The eagerness to receive instruction was so great that forty young men, and thirty-eight young women entered immediately … Some of the pupils, after leaving the mills at eight in the evening, came the distance of nearly two miles to the classes. But so great was the fatigue they had undergone during the day, that although they evinced an earnest desire to be instructed, it was soon found that their physical powers were too much exhausted by the day's work to enable them to give proper attention to the teachers, and as many as four and five together were observed to have fallen asleep. Within the space of a few months, the classes were deserted by all but five young men. They were accustomed to excuse their want of attention to the teachers, by saying that they were up at five o'clock in the morning, and that after leaving the classes they had to take their suppers; and, consequently, did not get to bed till eleven, and that owing to the long hours and short nights' rest, they found it impossible to keep awake during the evening lessons." 388 "By a statute of the commonwealth it is provided that no person under the age of 15 years shall be suffered to work more than nine months of any year in a manufacturing establishment, the remaining three months to be passed at school." "The law is enforced with unflinching strictness, so that even in times of scarcity of hands no plea that he ever heard of was admitted for the wresting of the law from its important design." "We have no permanent factory population.
 389 "To the general fact here noticed should be added, that the female operatives in Lowell do not work, on an average, more than four and a half years in the factories; they then return to their homes, and their places are taken by others. Here then (he says) we have two important elements of distinction between English and American operatives. The former are resident operatives, and are so for life, and constitute a permanent dependent factory caste—the latter come from distant homes, to which in a few years they return. The English visitor to Lowell, when he finds it so hard to understand why American operatives are so superior to those of Leeds and Manchester, will do well to remember what a different class of females we have to begin with—girls well educated in virtuous rural homes." "Of the 6320 female operatives in Lowell, 527 have been teachers in common schools." 390 "Special Committee report that four petitions, signed by 2139 persons, of which 1151 are from Lowell, mostly females, have been presented, praying the Legislature 'to pass a law providing that ten hours shall constitute a day's work.' The petitioners declare that they are confined from thirteen to fourteen hours per day in unhealthy apartments, and are thereby hastening, through pain, disease, and privation, down to a premature grave." "We think (say the Committee) there are abuses. We think many improvements may be made. We think it would be better if the hours of labour were less—if more time was allowed for meals—if more attention was paid to ventilation and pure air." "We acknowledge all this; but we say the remedy is not with us. We look for it in the progressive improvement of art and science—in a higher appreciation of man's destiny—in a less love for money, and a more ardent love for social happiness and intellectual superiority." 391 392 393 394
 LORD ASHLEY , in reply, said he would now refer to two statements made by the hon. Member for Durham. The statements which had reference to the increased rate of speed of Mr. Gardner's mills, he, on the best authority, had reason for believing to be incorrect. As to the other statement, he had requested the hon. Member for Durham to wait until he had explained the circumstance to which he had referred. [The noble Lord inquired if the hon. Member was in the House, and having been informed in the negative, proceeded.] He had to complain of great discourtesy on the part of the hon. Member for Durham, who, having made a charge against him—a charge of a personal nature—had not remained in the House to hear his reply to it, though he had been requested by him (Lord Ashley) to do so. The circumstance to which the hon. Member alluded was briefly this. The year before last he was in Lancaster, on a visit with the hon. Member for Oldham; and it occurred to him that, as he was within a short distance of Rochdale, where were situated the mills of the hon. Member for Durham, he might as well go over there. He believed himself to be perfectly conversant
 417
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  hoped that the House would not be induced by the "wet blanket" eloquence of the hon. Member to reject the wise and humane measure of the noble Lord. With respect to the hon. Member's argument against any invasion of the rights of property, he was deeply impressed with the conviction that if the rights of property were ever disregarded
 399
 LORD J. MANNERS  said, whatever the understanding of the hon. Member for Coventry might be, it was not his (Lord J. Manners') wish to enter into any discussion of the topic suggested by him; but he must protest most distinctly that he utterly and entirely dissented from every word which had fallen from the hon. Member; and in approving of the adjournment of the House, he did not coincide in the reasons assigned by the hon. Member.
 MR. HASTIE  said, that the right hon. Gentleman was quite correct in saying that the money was transferred from one account in the Bank to that of the Accountant General. His complaint was that when so transferred it was locked up from general use.
 MR. HASTIE  said, he rose to complain, on behalf of the bankers, merchants, and traders of this country, against the Standing Orders of that House. By Standing Order, No. 39, it was rendered necessary that deposits on account of Railway Bills should be paid to the Accountant General of the Court of Chancery. He (Mr. Hastie) did not complain of the amount 10 per cent., but of the mode of payment, and the delay occurring between the Accountant General and the Bank of England. When the money had passed into the hand of the Accountant General, a week must elapse before the Bank could use the deposits. It was estimated that this year the deposits would amount to eight or ten millions, which amount must all be paid within two weeks of the sitting of Parliament. Any one who had the least acquaintance with the currency of the country must know that to lock up so large a sum must create great alarm and difficulty. What he complained of was the delay between the Court of Chancery and the Bank of England. The Bank of England, if the money were paid directly into their account, would feel itself at liberty to use the deposits; discounts would thus go on as usual, and the great inconvenience to the mercantile world of which he complained would be avoided. He was aware that many representations had been made to the Government on this subject, and he blamed them not for the caution with which they had acted; but while they were anxious to discourage mere speculation, they should take care that their caution did not affect others than those against whom it was directed, and limit the commercial transactions of those who had no connection, and were wholly unacquainted, with those railway speculations. It was well known to all commercial men that nearly the whole of the mercantile transactions of this country were carried on by means of bills of exchange. All the goods sent from hence to South America, China, and the West India Islands, were paid for by bills; the remittances were wholly in bills, which could immediately be discounted in London at the current rate of discount, and thus
 372 l.
 MR. BICKHAM ESCOTT  said, that as the Bill was not to be opposed until the second reading, it was not necessary to enter upon a debate on its principle to-night; and he should not have risen, were it not for an observation which had fallen from the noble Lord by whom the motion for the introduction of the Bill had been submitted to the House. The noble Lord had stated, in reference to former decisions of the House, that they had not been the decisions of the House of Commons, but the decisions of Her Majesty's Government.
 403
 Mr. NEWDEGATE  rejoiced to hear the speech that the hon. Member for Finsbury had just made. It did him good to hear that theoretical principle was not to be allowed to overbear the experience of many years in the Legislature; and that the people of this country might still hope that our representative system furnished them enough of experienced men to set at nought theory and its mischiefs. He trusted that the right hon. Home Secretary would consider the relation of this measure to those which Her Majesty's Government had introduced. He had, perhaps, cast aside long experience in favour of theory in that matter; but let him well weigh this consideration, whether, when he was about to introduce the competition of the world with the labourers of this country, it would not be well to afford them some protection; and whether their claim to protection was not strengthened by the force of competition which was about to be brought against them. Allusion had been made to America, the great increase of whose manufactures seemed to threaten a severe competition with our own products. Were the labourers there not protected; and was not the protection afforded to their products the means of enabling the masters there to give relaxation and shorter hours of labour to their operatives? If the Government of this country reversed the case—removed protection, and increased competition—had not the noble Lord a still better claim on the Legislature for protection to the operatives of this country? He trusted that Government would reconsider this question before the Bill came to a second reading. He deeply lamented the course
 416
 MR. ROSS  was satisfied with the reasons of the right hon. Baronet.
 Mr. ROSS  was opposed to the adjournment of the House. He considered a reformed House of Commons ought not to keep such holidays as the one named, and for which the House was asked to adjourn. He thought that it was a reproach to those hon. men, Sir John Elliott, Pym, Hampden, and others, who had shed their blood in order to retain the chartered liberties of the country. They had sacrificed their lives in the defence of those liberties, and he thought that it would be foolish, with that fact before them, to keep that absurd fast. That was his opinion, and he felt bound to declare it. At least that was his impression, and he found it was published in the Papers of the House, and entered in the Notice-book, that to-morrow was to be observed as a fast in commemoration of the martyrdom of King Charles. There could be no doubt that such was the case, and if he only went out with one or two of his friends, he would divide the House on the subject.
 MR. WODEHOUSE  having asked leave to withdraw a Notice, relative to returns of the amount of certain local rates, for this day, and to renew it for Monday next,
 MR. WODEHOUSE  could not enter into the sublime views propounded by the hon. Member for Bath, nor did he agree with the hon. Member for Winchester, for it so happened that in his neighbourhood there were hundreds of women and children who would be benefited by this Bill. He therefore would support the noble Lord.
 MR. F. FRENCH  said, he understood it had been intimated last Session that some inquiry should be instituted by Her Majesty's
 419
 Mr. HUDSON  would offer a practical suggestion to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, which he was persuaded would obviate the difficulty complained of. If the companies seeking to obtain the consent of Parliament to Railway Bills, were, in place of money, to be allowed to deposit Exchequer bills, or stock, the difficulty would be met. By requiring the deposits to be made in money, the promoters of railway schemes were prevented from investing their money in good securities; but were they allowed, as they ought to be, to make the deposits in securities, the only object being that security should be taken for the due execution of the works undertaken—then the deposit of 10,000 l. l. 376
 MR. MUNTZ  concurred that it mattered not by whom the money was paid. He thought that it was very strange that the Government should refuse to receive their own securities as a payment into the public Treasury, especially when they were only held as a trustee fund; and he conceived that the Chancellor of the Exchequer was throwing something like disgrace on the credit of those securities. The proposal of the hon. Member, for Sunderland was a proper one, and if he had not made it, he would.
 MR. MUNTZ  thought the noble Lord had not been fairly dealt with. The question had been argued as if it concerned legislation all over the country. He admitted that the argument was a sound one, if you took the general labour of the country; but he did not admit that it was a sound one in the present case. This Bill was intended to apply to factories, or places where spinning or weaving was done by machinery. So far as his knowledge went, the owner fixed the time the engineer should work, and made the people work. He would advise the Government to take particular care on this subject. He did not think that a manufacturer should fix the time, and then make the women and children work that time, whether they wished it or not; and if they did not wish it, then undertake not to give them work at all. There was another circumstance of great weight upon his mind, which occasioned him to vote for the noble Lord's Motion last year, after he had fully examined the question; and that was, that women's labour was preferable, in this species of manufacture, to that of men, and that if a sufficient quantity of women's labour could be obtained, they were employed to an immense extent, and the men walked about doing nothing. He should feel it to be his duty to vote for the noble Lord's Motion, unless on further inquiry he found he was misinformed; because, notwithstanding what had been said by the hon. Member for Bath, he felt it would be for the interest of the people.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that the speech of the noble Lord appeared to him to be a better speech than he had ever before delivered. There had been no factory cripples paraded on the floor of the House, or statements as to the horrible condition of the people amongst whom he (Mr. Bright) had the good fortune to live. The noble Lord had quoted some extract of a Report of a Committee of the Legislature of Massachusetts, and he had complained that that report painted the condition of the manufacturing population of England with great unfairness. Who was so eminently responsible for any unfairness which might hereafter be committed against the manufacturing population of England as the noble Lord? For if the committee had read the speeches of the noble Lord, and believed them, he did not wonder they should make statements which bore very unfairly on the population of Lancashire and Yorkshire. There was one part of the question which all were agreed on, and that was, that to work ten hours was more comfortable than to work twelve. They were all anxious that the labouring population should work less and have better wages; but when the noble Lord came to demonstrate that, by a forcible suspension of labour, nobody lost and everybody gained, he was altogether wrong. He had brought before the House the case of Mr. Gardner of Preston, and had gone into details as to his establishment. He had listened to the noble Lord; but he had not told the House that when Mr. Gardner, had reduced the time of working from twelve hours to eleven, the speed of his machinery was increased, and that by a unanimous determination to make the experiment answer, certain minutes at breakfast, dinner, and tea time were spared that before had been squandered, and by extraordinary exertion the same amount of work was produced. But Mr. Gardner gave an expectation to his workpeople that he would proceed further in the reduction of hours, and they expected that this winter the time was to be reduced to ten hours; but he believed that he had not made such a reduction in the hours of his mill, and that his manager had informed Mr. Gardner that such further reduction would not be desirable. The noble Lord did not know so much about mills as he ought to do in order to meddle with this question. He (the noble Lord) had once come to the counting-house of the establishment with which he was connected, and one of his (Mr. Bright's) brothers
 409 410 411
 MR. BRIGHT  thought the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department had not given a distinct answer to the question of the hon. Member for Finsbury. He understood from the answer of the right hon. Baronet that some new law was to be introduced; but the question put by his hon. Friend was, did the Government intend to call out the militia during the present year? A permanent law, perhaps, might be necessary; but the country wished to know whether the Government intended to call out the militia in the course of the year.
 MR. COLQUHOUN  observed, that the charge brought by the hon. and learned Member for Winchester against his noble Friend (Lord Ashley), was quite novel,
 404
 MR. JOHN FIELDEN  said, he feared the hon. Member for Durham had mixed himself up so much with some other association, that he had not had time to attend to this question. However, his experience with regard to the factory workers had been as long and as continuous as that of the hon. Member for Durham; and he thought that a Ten Hours' Bill might be passed this Session with the greatest chance of proving a blessing, not only to the working classes, but to the whole country. He would not now advert to any objection that had been made, except one that had been started by the right hon. Baronet opposite, and caught up by the hon. Member for Durham. It was this: the question was put, "Why don't you at once adopt the ten-hour system, without asking the Legislature for a Bill?" Now, he confessed he should be much more satisfied if the manufacturing interest would adopt the system without any such legislative interference. But the hon. Member for Durham knew what the effect of factory working was; he knew that those working in factories were compelled to be there from a certain hour in the morning till evening. They were not free agents; they had not control over their time; and he was surprised at the two hon. Gentlemen below him, who had taken the same course of argument, to the effect that this measure was an interference with the rights of property and of labour; and they designated labour as property. He did not disagree with the opinion that labour was property, though it was not generally considered such; and he thought it as much entitled to protection as any other property. But, in protecting labour, they must take care they did not injure or destroy the labourer. By refusing the labourer protection, they suffered him to be destroyed by the capitalist, and the Legislature neglected its duty. The protection of labour implied that those who ought to be able to labour should have not only the ability but the means of labouring. By working them too many hours in the day, their power to labour at all was
 412 413
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, the New Poor Law, even in the most favourable times, had been found a heavy grievance in Ireland, and had never relieved the pauperism of the country. It had now to undergo a severe test, and he was convinced it would never succeed. The effect of the approaching calamity could not be exaggerated; they were within three or four weeks of famine, and it should be borne in mind that in Ireland a famine never occurred that was not attended by
 420
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  wished to make one remark on the observation of the hon. Member for Newcastle-under-Lyne—that manufactures had not succeeded in Ireland because of the want of security there. Now, he did not hesitate to say that this was one of those calumnies which were often circulated out of doors, but which he thought it rather too bad to hear repeated in that House. It was utterly untrue that manufactures were driven from Ireland by want of security; but they were extinguished by the very country amongst whose people this taunt was readily accepted as true, depriving the Irish of the only means of manufacturing enterprise—capital and rich consumers. He should be most ready to give his support to this Bill, believing it to be intended for the benefit of the people.
 MR. RICARDO  said, the observations of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Sunderland had changed the nature of the discussion. This was not a question of convenience to the railway companies; but as regarded the public whether the circulation of the country should be diminished. It mattered little whether the deposits were paid to the credit of one name or another, and still less did it matter by whom the money was invested; neither did it appear to him—though large payments of money to one particular purpose must always occasion disarrangement to the currency to some extent—that if the bankers themselves had confined their operations to legitimate accommodation, and not attempted to commit certain imprudencies of which many of them had been guilty—if they had acted with common prudence, no difficulty would have arisen. In regard to what had been said by the hon. Gentleman who spoke last, he thought much of the inconvenience might be avoided, if at the period of registration the time were fixed for the repayment of the deposit: say that the money should remain there four months after the date of registration. The Bank would thus know, as soon as the money came into their hands, when they would have to repay it, and might deal with it with certainty.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that the proposal of the noble Lord was to restrict the hours of labour of persons under a certain age, and who were not  sui juris. 405 l., s. s. s. 406
 MR. TRELAWNY  opposed the introduction of the Bill. He thought persons occupying the position of the noble Lord ought to be the last to touch and injure the rights of property. The noble Lord who had introduced the Bill had stated that no reduction had taken place in the rate of wages since the working of short time; but had he considered a large demand for labour had taken place, which had raised the market? Judging from the exposition made by the noble Lord, the effect of what had been done resembled the action of the Irishman who cut off the bottom of the blanket and sewed it at the top by way of making it longer. If the condition of the labouring classes was as bad as it was said to be, let the Government put on additional taxes to support them—an addition to the Property Tax, if that was deemed proper—but do not make attacks upon the manufacturing interests, which could only end in their injury.
 MR. HUME  said, that while he could not but approve of the good intentions which actuated the noble Lord the Member for Dorsetshire, yet, with all respect for the noble Lord, he could not but think that instead of endeavouring to reconcile differences and to promote good feeling between masters and men, he sought by this legislation to make the masters oppressive, and to interfere with the working man's property, namely, his labour, and with a man's management of his own affairs. His hon. Friend near him (Mr. Trelawny) was, therefore, correct in designating the plan of the noble Lord as an interference with the rights of property. There had been a time (which the noble Lord seemed to have forgotten) when artisans of all descriptions were, by law, thwarted and kept down in all their endeavours to maintain the privilege of using their capital, that was to say, of employing their own time as to them should seem fit. Anterior to the year 1824, only about twenty-three years ago, no labourer could meet with his fellows to talk over or discuss the hours of labour, the amount of wages he received, or to demand 2 d. s. 401 402
 MR. HUME  said, it was a reflection on the Government that so much confusion should prevail on the subject, and suggested that the 16,000 existing rates might be reduced to two or three.
 MR. STEWART : Why, the Standing Orders are to decide it.
 Mr. P. M. STEWART  said, the mercantile community in general must feel obliged to his hon. Friend (Mr. Hastie) for bringing the matter forward; and as the mischief was at work, whether it rested on the authority of an Act of Parliament, or on an Order of that House, he hoped he would not delay in pressing it upon the attention of the House. He was quite sure that any Bank Director present would admit that, so far as commercial accommodation was concerned, the distinction drawn by his hon. Friend the Member for Paisley was perfectly correct. Supposing the money to be placed in the Bank in the names of five of the provisional committee, he admitted that they had the same power over it as a private individual would have, were it placed in his name; but if it was placed there under the authority of the Speaker's warrant, it would remain in the Bank, and could only be drawn by parties possessing certain official documents passing from the Speaker. The parties lodging it had no power to draw it, and it became available to the Bank of England for commercial purposes. But in the case of deposits paid into the credit of the Accountant General, there was no power to dislodge them for such purposes. The purpose of the law that had been made on that subject was to secure the public from injury, and that object would be amply effected by the lodgment of the money in the Bank of England, under authority from the proper quarter. No practical man or Bank of England director would contradict him when he said, that if the money were placed in the Bank of England under restraint, it would not be available for commercial purposes. Whereas if it were paid in, as he had said, under the authority of the Speaker's Order, it would be available to-morrow. During the last few days it had been impossible to get discounts; and what he contended was, that this money was so abstracted from circulation, and the mercantile transactions of the country brought to a stand-still, for no good purpose whatever. Six or seven millions were thus lodged as deposits, occasioning the withdrawal of about one-fifth or one-sixth
 375
 MR. P. M. STEWART  rose to explain. He thought the interval between the depositing and the release of the money could be determined by the fate of the Bill when certified by the proper authority.
 MR. P. HOWARD  thought that further interference at present would be attended with anything but beneficial results towards that portion of the community whose cause the noble Lord advocated. If a ten hours' system were advisable, it would be better it should be put in force by general agreement amongst the manufacturers than by legislative enactment. In agriculture it would be difficult to limit the hours of labour; and if it were difficult to do so in time of harvest, it might also be difficult for a manufacturer, when he received a sudden order, to execute that order within a prescribed period. If this Bill should pass, the noble Lord would have a stronger ground for appealing to the generosity of
 407
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  wished to ask a question on a subject which had caused considerable excitement in various parts of the country—he alluded to the supposed intention which existed on the part of the Government to enrol and embody the militia. It was generally understood that the Government intended to enrol the militia under the Act now in existence. The right hon. Baronet was perhaps aware that militia clubs had been established, for the purpose of enabling persons to afford a passive resistance to the enrolment. Some
 368
 MR. GISBORNE  was anxious that the interests of depositors—the shareholders in these railways—should be considered. The hon. Gentleman who had just spoken proposed that the money should be paid into the Bank, under the Speaker's warrant, and only taken out by the authority of the Speaker's warrant; that was in effect to say, that the money should remain in the Bank — unavailable to the depositors — until either the Bill passed or was thrown out. This would be most unjust, as the Bank allowed no interests on such deposits.
 MR. WAKLEY  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman opposite, if, after hearing the speech of the hon. Member who had just resumed his seat, his opinions had not undergone a change? His hon. Friend the Member for Oldham was one of the most experienced, most wealthy, most intelligent, and most humane men in the kingdom—a man universally respected, and one who had ever been the friend of the poor. He was a practical man, not a mere theorist, who would run through granite after a principle. He was not so bigotedly attached to what was called principle as to refuse to change his opinion, or to resist the conclusions to which facts would lead him. The question was, whether infants in this country were to be sacrificed to a principle? The hon. Member for Oldham, he understood, was at the head of a firm which employed thousands of hands; in his establishment was wrought up nearly one-hundredth part of the cotton imported into this country; and what did he say? Surely, the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department would not be insensible to the effect of that speech which the hon. Member had delivered. The right hon. Baronet had intimated that his opinions on this subject were unaltered. Did he not think it rash to make such a statement, after what had lately passed in that House? He must be permitted to say that it was rash and unphilosophical. It was proved now that men could bend their minds to circumstances; that men who had set out with a principle could deviate and adopt a very different course, when reason intimated that it was for the general good to do so. He gave the right hon. Baronet opposite full credit for the sincerity of his change of opinion on the Corn Law question; nothing could be more invidious, or more irrational, than to charge men with dishonesty, because they changed their opinions. In his opinion, that was a disgusting charge, and one altogether unfitted for a legislative assembly. Infinitely worse, and infinitely more dishonest would it be, for a man when his opinions were changed, to utter a falsehood within the walls of that House. He trusted the right hon. Gentleman would apply his mind seriously to the subject, and reflect upon the facts that had been adduced for his information. He was
 414 415
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  said, he could not allow the Bill to be introduced without expressing the favourable sentiments he entertained towards it. He represented a manufacturing town, where the cotton and woollen manufactures were extensively carried on; and when the noble Lord proposed his measure on a former occasion, he had taken the pains to make himself acquainted with the feelings of the manufacturing classes of that town, and he was convinced that the working classes were strongly in favour of a reduction of the hours of labour by the Legislature. On that ground, he had supported the noble Lord all in his power; and he had seen nothing since, and heard no argument on the present occasion, to induce him to alter his opinion. He trusted most sincerely that the object of the noble Lord would be attained, and that the working classes would be thereby greatly benefited.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  was glad to find that such a measure had been decided upon, and that all was to be done which could be done by the Government to meet the demands of a people visited by unforeseen distress; but it would have to be recollected that the Irish Poor Law Bill did not provide for external relief; and, in the event of a famine, some provision should be made for the unfortunate, to have food supplied to them in their own houses. It was to be hoped this would not be overlooked by the Government.
 MR. F. T. BARING  thought that if the information already existing in the public offices could be presented at one view, it would be a very valuable document.
 MR. F. T. BARING  begged to express his opinion that it would be much better if the whole subject of local taxation, its extent and details, were contained in one paper, than exhibited in various returns, such as the one just postponed, He hoped the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, would accede to that suggestion. He did not ask him for any fresh information, but merely to get that information which they already possessed arranged in a proper form by some public department, by which it would be much better performed than in any other way. It was desirable that the whole statement of local taxation, amounting to 16,000,000 l., 418
 MR. F. T. BARING  considered it would be hard to lock up money for an indefinite time, without interest, until the fate of the Bill might be known. He confessed—but he might be mistaken — that he could not understand what disadvantages could arise from the deposit of Exchequer bills instead of money. The object of the deposit was, that the Government and the public might have a security that the undertaking for which it was proposed to obtain an Act of Parliament was of a  bonâ fide
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  and one or two other hon. Member's presented petitions to the same effect.
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  was of opinion that it had been fully proved that every alteration which had taken place with regard to the law regarding the limitation of the hours of labour had been attended with signal benefit to the operatives themselves; and it required more ingenuity than any Member of that House possessed to prove that any thing done further in this matter would be productive of injury. The right hon. Baronet said, that this was a wrong time to introduce such a measure, because the alteration in the Corn Laws the repeal of which he always so determinately supported, would give a great stimulus to manufactures and commerce. If the Corn Laws were to give such a great stimulus, they must foresee a greater demand for labour; and surely, if he understood the subject at all, these were the very reasons why they ought to take the opportunity of doing away with those evils which were in existence, now that they could anticipate the great demand for labour which these evils so much affected. If he understood the noble Lord correctly, he was desirous that the hours of labour should be reduced to ten hours. From the first day he had any thing to do with the question, it was always his endeavour to
 398
 Sir J. GRAHAM : Sir, by the courtesy of the noble Lord I have been enabled to acquaint myself with the provisions of the Bill; and in the course of the morning I apprised the noble Lord that it was not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to offer, on the present occasion, any opposition to the introduction of the Bill. The noble Lord said, in reviewing his conduct in reference to this subject, that he had seen no reason to reproach himself for the part he had taken. In that sentiment I entirely concur; for I am aware that the noble Lord, in the course he has pursued on this question, has undergone great sacrifices, and has discharged his conscientious duty at a greater cost than falls to the lot of most men. But, as I do not rise with the intention of opposing the Motion of the noble Lord on the present occasion, I do not think it necessary to advert to many of the arguments the noble Lord has advanced in support of his measure. I might, if I thought it necessary, follow the noble Lord through the various topics he has referred to on former occasions. I might, in the first place, remind the noble Lord of what he stated as having taken place in the manufacturing districts since the passing of the Act of 1844, and which, so far from rendering legislative interference necessary or expedient, rather implies that the House should abstain from any interference between the employer and the employed in these branches of industry. The noble Lord stated that in some manufactories, which he specified, it had been found to be the interest both of the masters and the operatives that the period of labour should not be allowed to extend to the maximum period allowed by the law. The noble Lord stated that, in some instances, it had become quite common to work only eleven
 395 396 397
 SIR J. GRAHAM  quite concurred with the hon. Member who had just spoken, in thinking it most desirable that such a document as he had alluded to should be in the hands of the House; but at the same time was of opinion that for such a return to be useful, it was absolutely necessary it should be accurate. His hon. Friend had consented to withdraw his Motion, for the purpose of allowing time to confer with the authorities at Somerset House. Any one who had read the very able Report on Local Taxation would know that there were no less than twenty-two local rates, levying 12,000,000 l.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that no inquiry would be gone into on the part of the Government; the law, he feared, was about to undergo a severe trial from the impending distress, but already the Government had reason to be satisfied that it had been established. The existence of workhouses in different districts at this time was most fortunate and opportune; there were also, now, in every moderately sized district, boards of guardians, including magistrates and gentlemen of the locality, who formed an organized body, adapted to the application of means of relief. He was by no means satisfied that the law was a perfect measure; but still, when compared with the absence of any law, they might congratulate themselves on its establishment. He could only repeat the assurance he gave in the last Session, that if any Member of either House of Parliament asked for an inquiry into the operation of the law, the Government would offer no opposition to it; the hon. Gentleman was perhaps aware, that in the other House of Parliament notice of a Motion for an Inquiry had been given by Lord Clancarty. That Motion, or any made by a Member of that House, the Government would not oppose.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  replied that his right hon. Friend the Secretary at War intended to lay upon the Table a Bill for the propose of amending and consolidating the Militia Acts. The Bill was in course of preparation, and would be laid before the House at an early period.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, from the manner in which the question had been put, the hon. Member did not appear to be aware of the existing state of the law. By the Act annually passed, power was given to Her Majesty in Council, in the event of certain contingencies, to call out the militia within a fortnight. At the present moment there was no intention of acting upon that power; but if the contingency should arise, it would be open to Her Majesty, by the advice of Her servants, to call out that body at a fortnight's notice. In answer to the other question, put by the hon. Member for Finsbury, he had already stated that it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to submit to the House a Bill for the purpose of amending and consolidating the Militia Acts; and his right hon. Friend the Secretary at War would, at an early day, give notice of the time of the introduction of the measure.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that he had yesterday endeavoured to put the matter in such form as would not offend the most sensitive mind, and to express the reasons of Her Majesty's Government for moving the adjournment. He had expressly stated that the reason of the adjournment of the House was really because there was no public business before them for that day, and because it would conduce very much to the public convenience. He conceived
 369
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that a notice had been given on his behalf, by his right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Home Department, which he believed would meet with the general concurrence of the House, and not subject any parties to inconvenience, either on account of public or private business. To-morrow being the 30th of January, he proposed that the House at its rising do adjourn until Monday next.
 SIR R. PEEL  objected, on the ground that the fate of a Bill might not be decided for perhaps two or three months.
 SIR R. PEEL  hoped the House would not lightly interfere in this matter. It was impossible to place any check upon extravagant speculation in railways, without subjecting the public to some inconvenience. One of the securities Parliament had thought fit to require for the purpose of preventing, as far as possible, delusive speculations in railways, was, that before the petition for the Bill should be presented, a certain deposit upon the capital to be subscribed should be made. Formerly that deposit was five per cent.; but that being thought
 377 378
 SIR R. PEEL  said, the nature of the demands would be fully understood from the instructions, which would show the proposals made by the Government on the part of this country and France.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he had not the slightest objection to lay upon the Table of the House those documents which would explain the grounds upon which Her Majesty's Government had acted in concert with France — namely, the instructions which had been given to Mr. Ouseley. He had rather not, at present, produce the proposition made by General Rosas, which, although not accepted, might lay the foundation for an adjustment of the matters in difference. So long as there was any chance of such adjustment, he thought it would be better not to lay on the Table any proof of the atrocities which had been committed during the lamentable struggle which had taken place. But he had no objection to lay before the House the Convention with France, and the instructions given to Mr. Ouseley, detailing the grounds on which this country, after a long delay, most reluctantly interfered.
 SIR T. FREMANTLE  moved to omit the 4th, 5th, and 6th Clauses, and to bring up a Clause for extending the provisions of the old Act to the Public Works.
 SIR R. FERGUSON  said, one great cause of complaint was the enormous preliminary expense incurred, and the extraordinary powers possessed by the Drainage Commissioners, who in their proceedings prepared no estimates, and were guided by no plans or estimates, nor indeed by anything else. The whole effect of the present Bill was to increase the powers of the Board beyond all precedent. It was, perhaps, the most objectionable measure ever introduced in reference to Ireland. The power of compulsory levy in Ireland had now got to such an enormous extent, that it ought to be checked instead of being extended. He hoped that the Government would consider well before they pressed the present measure; and he would ask why did they not bring over the Chairman of the Commissioners of Public Works here? He objected to the manner in which that Board exceeded all ordinary estimates, and, instead of letting the works to others, kept them in their own hands. In conclusion, the hon. Gentleman referred to the immense improvements which had taken place in agriculture in Ireland, particularly during the last ten years, in proof of which he referred to the reports of the Irish Agricultural Society.
 MR. O'CONNELL  said, he meant to vote for the second reading of the Bill; and it appeared to him that the discussion of its details ought to be reserved for the Committee. He had no complaint to make of the Board of Works, although Irishmen were supposed to be ready enough to make complaints. The only proceedings of the Board of Works of which he thought there was any reason to complain, were the enormous preliminary expenses; and those expenses were not attributable to the Board. In his opinion a great improvement would be ensured by the provision requiring that the measure should be carried into effect with the consent of one half of the parties whom it would affect. The right hon. Baronet would have ample time to consider the details of the subject; for the Bill could not be carried into effect
 432
 SIR R. FERGUSON  said, the words having reference to repairs were to be withdrawn, but still the same thing would be included under the word "improvements." He proposed that the Government should leave out the 5th Clause altogether; it was impossible they could ever make these compulsory presentments justifiable under any form. The compulsory powers possessed by the Board were a great subject of complaint in Ireland.
 SIR R. FERGUSON  moved the omission of the 5th Clause, on the ground that it would give to the Commissioners unlimited powers.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that no one who understood the point under discussion could suppose that the clause involved any violation of principle. The course now in Ireland was, where the Treasury gave one half the sum required, there was a compulsion on the grand jury to pay for the remainder of the work when finished. The present Bill provided, that if there was any manifest improvement to be made to an existing work, and the Treasury made the grant to that work, then the grand jury should provide for the repair of that work in the same manner as if the work had been a new one. As to the compulsory clauses, neither the Treasury nor the grand jury could move unless first a meeting of the cesspayers had been held to decide whether the work should be undertaken or not; and on their petition to the Treasury, and on the grant being made according to that petition, the grand jury should act; but only in that case. Under the present circumstances of the country, when it was desirable in particular districts to set about works of a more extensive character, in order to give persons scattered over a great extent of country occupation near their homes, he thought there could not be a more reasonable proposition than that of his right hon. Friend.
 MR. HAMILTON  hoped hon. Members would not persist in their opposition.
 SIR R. FERGUSON  persisted in his Motion, and
 COLONEL CONOLLY  should be sorry to retard a measure which the Secretary for
 433
 MR. S. HERBERT  said, that he was not present when the hon. Gentleman put his question to his right hon. Friend. A great deal of the misapprehension on that subject had arisen from not drawing the distinction between training and embodying. The Government had no power to embody the militia, but it had a power to call them out for training, and beyond that it was not intended to go. With regard to the present law it was the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill to amend and consolidate the different Militia Acts, and when such a Bill passed it would be in the power of the Government to call out the militia for training. Whether they were called out for training would, of course, depend on circumstances, and upon that point he would rather not give an answer. But it was not the intention of the Government to embody the militia. If called out it would be for training only. On this part of the subject he was anxious to say a word with respect to the formation of militia clubs, which he understood was being carried on in many parts of the country, and
 427
 MR. B. COCHRANE  said, that he was desirous of asking a question of the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government. He wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman intended to include in his financial measure any facilities to the holders ef Scotch entailed property to improve their estates. And in reference to his question he begged to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to that clause of the general law of Scotch entail which called upon the proprietors of entailed property to invest any amount of compensation which they might receive for damage done to their property by railway or similar undertakings, in the Bank of Scotland. He would take the liberty of suggesting, that if there was to be any alteration in the law of entail, the owners of entailed estates should be able to apply that money for the purpose of fencing, draining, and otherwise improving the land. This would be of great advantage, not only to the landowner and tenantry,
 425
 MR. B. COCHRANE  said, that it was not generally known in Scotland, that any such power was possessed by the owners of entailed estates as that alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman. At the present moment the banks of Scotland contained a large sum of money paid to landowners as compensation by railway companies.
 MR. ROSS  was glad to find that the Government had taken up this subject. He had himself taken a great interest in a fishery in his part of the country, and by proper management had made it a most successful speculation. Such a measure as that was highly necessary at the present moment, particularly as the state of Ireland was most alarming. He had seen a letter that morning from Lord Lurgan, stating that the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. O'Connell) had not in the slightest degree exaggerated the present unfortunate condition of Ireland.
 MR. F. FRENCH  felt it his duty to support the Motion of the hon. Member for Londonderry.
 MR. F. FRENCH  said, the impressions which he entertained relative to this measure when it was first announced were fully strengthened and corroborated by a careful perusal of the provisions of this Bill, which had only been printed that morning. He conceived that the landed
 429 430
 MR. F. FRENCH  wished to take that opportunity of expressing his regret to find that his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Cork (Mr. O'Connell) was so much in favour of compulsory presentments. Since 1833 the money on account of the compulsory presentments amounted to 1,300,000 l.;
 SIR H. W. BARRON  approved of the Bill as far at it went; but he thought that it ought to have been carried much further. Piers and harbours were of the first necessity on the coast of Ireland, and
 437 l. 438 "The potato crop is rapidly progressing to utter destruction. The last accounts are unanimous on this point. The interior of the potatoes is black and actually rotten."
 MR. P. M. STEWART  rose, pursuant to notice, to ask the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government the questions relative to which he had given notice, or rather for the purpose of calling his attention to the subject, as he did not wish that the introduction of this question should at all interfere with, or be in any manner injurious to the carrying out of the great measure which the right hon. Baronet contemplated. But as the proposed measure contemplated the modification of restrictive duties, as well as removal of protective ones, he only considered it right to refer to the present condition of our own Colonies with regard to some of their productions—namely, rum, molasses, and sugar. The duties upon colonial spirits at present amounted almost to a prohibition. The differential duty between home and foreign spirits in England was 1 s. d. s. d., s. d., l. 428
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that the other evening he had put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, as to the intention of the Government to call out the militia during the present year. He had understood the right hon. Gentleman to say that they had no immediate intention of doing so, but that it was their intention to introduce a new law for the enrolment of the militia, and that in any emergency it should be embodied under the amended law. He wished to ask the Secretary at War whether it was a correct interpretation of the intentions of Government?
 Mr. GREGORY  said, that the right hon. Baronet who had brought in the Bill was not aware that, in certain parts of Ireland, where there were the greatest opportunities for promoting fisheries, the object of the Bill would be thwarted by corporations who had got into their own hands the power, though he would not say the right, of fishing. He would point out to the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the bay of Galway, where a corporation held the Cladagh fisheries. These people had laid down such regulations, that on person could fish before or after a certain time, or on any day but when the company's boats went out themselves. To show the extent to which this tyranny had gone, he would just mention one instance of it which occurred last year. They allowed fishing with the hook, but interdicted the use of the trawl, which, as every person who was acquainted with fishing knew, was the most effective mode of fishing. A friend of his introduced the trawl in the bay, and caught an enormous quantity of fish of the finest description, with which the whole neighbourhood was supplied. As soon as the fishermen of Galway heard of this encroachment upon their prerogative, they sallied forth at once, and nothing but the providential interposition of the police prevented the utter destruction of all his friend's fishing apparatus. Application was subsequently made to the Castle, and
 439
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  said, the right hon. Gentleman was mistaken with respect to the cesspayers. It was not the cesspayers in general that possessed the power
 434
 SIR C. NAPIER , in reference to the question of which he had given notice on Thursday, wished to know whether any settlement had been made with the French Government respecting the indemnity to Mr. Pritchard.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he could explain to the gallant Officer what had taken place respecting the Pritchard Indemnity. The gallant Officer was, of course, aware that the principle of compensation to Mr. Pritchard had been admitted by the French Government. It was agreed that the amount of that indemnity should be determined by the two commanding officers of England and France in the Pacific. Sir G. Seymour, on the part of England, and Admiral Hamelin, on the part of France, had proceeded to make inquiries on the spot as to the amount of compensation due. Mr. Pritchard had rendered an account of it to them, but as some items of that account had not been sufficiently explained, they had requested him to supply them with some additional information with respect to them. Mr. Pritchard was subsequently removed to the Navigators' Island, where he had been appointed consul. But he had every reason to hope that when the additional information should have been supplied, a settlement would take place. There was no question at all as to the principle of granting compensation.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he might perhaps have remained silent; but he feared some erroneous inference might be drawn from such a course. He had no hesitation, therefore, in at once announcing that at present Government had no intention of lowering the present rate of duties on rum, or altering the existing law with respect to molasses in distilleries. It was true the rate of duties in England, Scotland, and Ireland differed very much. The Government had attempted to lessen this difference some time ago in Ireland, by raising the duty on spirits; but this attempt had been found to materially encourage illicit distillation in that country, and therefore they had restored the law to its original condition, and even lowered the duty on spirits in Ireland. He was sure the hon. Gentleman opposite did not mean to propose that there should be a different rate of duty levied on rum imported into England, Scotland, and Ireland, and such was not the intention of the present Government; if such a thing was done great inconvenience might arise from it. The hon. Gentleman must be aware, with respect to the other branch of his question, that the prohibition against the use of molasses was only in operation with respect to those premises licensed for the distillation of spirits from corn.
 SIR R. PEEL  believed that there was no obligation by which the deposits could not be taken out of the bank. It ought to be known that the money might be applied to the discharge of burdens on the estate affecting the heir of entail.
 SIR R. PEEL : In answer to the question put to me by my hon. Friend, I beg to state that Her Majesty's Ministers are desirous of giving to the landed proprietors of Scotland in principle the same advantage they propose to give to the landed proprietors in England, with respect to increased means of draining their estates by loans from Government. He asks me another question, which I rather think is founded upon erroneous impressions on his part with regard to the state of the law. I do not believe that in Scotland the obligation to place in the Bank of Scotland that money which may be paid to landed proprietors by railway and other companies interfering injuriously with their estates, rests on the law of entail in that country. I rather think my hon. Friend will find that each separate Railway Bill as it passes does impose an obligation on landed proprietors possessing an entailed estate to deposit the money received from the railway in the Bank of Scotland. The obligation is imposed by each Railway Act, and not by the law of entail. Entailed estates in Scotland are subject to a variety of charges. They may be subject to charges under what is called the Montgomery Act. The possessor of an entailed estate is entitled to charge the reversionary interest with a certain amount, not exceeding three-fourths of the sums expended in permanent improvements, drainage, buildings, fences, &c. By another act, called Lord Aberdeen's Act, the proprietors of entailed estates have the power to charge heirs of entail with certain sums as provisions for widows and children; and by the general law of Scotland, the debts of the creator of the entail are charged on the property. The Lord Advocate introduced last Session into the Clauses Consolidation (Scotland) Act a provision which does effect the main object which my hon. Friend (Mr. Cochrane) has in view. Power is given by the Act brought in and passed last Session, which enables the proprietor of an entailed estate receiving money from a railway company to apply it to the discharge of the burdens which may have been constituted on the heirs of entails, either by the Montgomery Act or Lord Aberdeen's Act, or those charges which may appertain to the heirs of entail in consequence of the debts incurred by the creator of the entail. Whether or no it may be desirable to permit the
 426
 SIR T. FREMANTLE  moved the Order of the Day for the Second Reading of the Drainage (Ireland) Bill.
 SIR T. FREMANTLE  said, he had merely stated on a former occasion that he would withdraw the clauses to which his hon. Friend referred, but that he would bring up other clauses in place of them. He was then acting in conformity with that engagement; and he thought that the provisions to which his hon. Friend objected ought to be maintained. He proposed to omit the words relating to repairs in the 4th Clause, and he hoped that that alteration would, to a certain extent, meet the objections of his hon. Friend.
 SIR T. FREMANTLE  said, it had been the wish of the Government to obtain the best possible information as to the working of such a measure as that proposed, as well as to consult the opinions of such Gentlemen connected with Ireland as wonld be most likely to form a just and fair conclusion of its probabilities of success. But with respect to the opinion expressed upon the measure by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, he (Sir T. Fremantle) did not think that any one in the House would take precisely the same ground as the hon. Member for Roscommon. He believed if any works were undertaken by any other parties than those authorized in the Bill, a much greater degree of expense would be incurred in their construction than would otherwise be the case. Now, if there was a certain duty imposed by this Bill which they were then discussing, upon the Board of Works, the Board ought to have conferred upon them a power to discharge that duty which was imposed upon them. It was a duty which they neither desired nor sought for. But it would be quite impossible to carry out the works which might be undertaken under the provisions of the present Bill satisfactorily or usefully without the authority given in the Bill. As to the reduction of the required number of consents from two-thirds to one-half, he (Sir T. Fremantle) had formerly been very much of the hon. Member's opinion; but so many representations had been made to him, when in Ireland, that works were stopped, not from active dissent or opposition of proprietors, but from indisposition to come forward, that that opinion had been changed. He considered this measure of great importance as regarded the improvement of the large rivers—they were the highways of the country; and the Legislature had a right to step in, if the proprietors did not see their own interests in reference to them. The hon. Gentleman said, the proprietors would see it their own interest to drain their lands; but it should be recollected that it was necessary to the drainage of private estates that they should look after the rivers
 431
 SIR T. FREMANTLE  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to afford encouragement to the construction of small Piers and Harbours calculated to extend the Fisheries in Ireland. No subject since his official connexion with Ireland had occupied more of his attention than this; and he hoped the House would agree with him that it was most desirable to extend and encourage the fisheries both in rivers and the sea. When it was considered what the extent of the coast of Ireland was, and how much indented it was with hays and estuaries, no one could doubt that the whole coast was admirably calculated to supply the finest fish. He regretted to say that, whatever exertions had hitherto been made, had not been successful. The fact was, the fisheries were in a neglected state. Grants had been made in former times for piers, harbours, boats, gear, and nets; and roads had been made and various devices adopted; but he was sorry to say they had all hitherto failed, and the fisheries had relapsed into a state of inaction. He feared there was some want of enterprise, but the first thing to raise the fisheries appeared to him to be providing the fishermen with boats of sufficient size to go out into the deep sea. The number of such boats at present in Ireland was not great. The reason was, that on very few coasts were there any landing places, piers, or harbours, to afford conveniences for this kind of fishing. Smaller boats only were used, which did not require any landing place or pier. The best mode of encouraging the employment of large boats, appeared to him to be to increase the number of piers on all parts of the coast of Ireland. He proposed, therefore, that in this Bill the sum of 50,000 l. l. 436
 SIR T. FREMANTLE  said, that the power of the Commissioners would not be unlimited, as they would extend to a sum of only 50,000 l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that, before the right hon. Gentleman answered that question, he wished to remind him that a discussion on the Sugar Duties would raise two important questions. The first of these questions related to the amount of differential duties; and the second related to the subject of free-labour sugar and all other foreign sugars, which had been frequently discussed in that House. Those
 453
 MR. HAWES : There will be no alteration of the duties this year?
 MR. WODEHOUSE  rose to move for—
 "1. Copy of the Warrant, or other document of authority, by which H. S. Chapman, Esq., Assistant Commissioner under the Commission appointed to inquire into the condition of the Hand-loom Weavers, and acting in that capacity in the West Riding of Yorkshire in 1838, was afterwards appointed Chief Judge of the Supreme Court at Wellington, in New Zealand, in 1843. 2. Papers relative to Tariff's published in the United States, and presented in pursuance of an Address of the 18th of July, 1828, viz.: Copy of a Despatch from H. U. Addington, Esq., to Mr. Secretary Canning, dated Washington, May 30, 1824, and of Mr. Vaughan to Viscount Dudley, dated Washington, August 13, 1827, with other Inclosures. 442 s., s., s., s.; s. d.; s. d. "I think generally the supply will be moderate; the crops in general abroad have not been very productive, and in some parts, where we usually look for supplies, the exportation has lately been prohibited—I mean the Prussian provinces bordering on the Elbe. Our principal sources of supply may be looked for this year from the Baltic, and chiefly from Poland; for the produce of the harvest in the Prussian provinces bordering on the Baltic has been unusually bad, and the quality very light and inferior. A considerable
 443 l. "With respect to taking off the new duty on wheat, I do not see that the country can suffer from its continuance to the end of this year, as the shipments of the present calendar year cannot continue much longer; the threshing out of the wheat will not be finished before the end of the current year, and therefore the supply to the seaport towns can only begin with the month of January next year. It is the fault of the merchant himself if he has encumbered himself with a larger stock than he could send to England before the 1st of October, as he is sure of a good price to that time; and the new measure of the English Government for reducing the bounty, having occasioned an unnatural rise in the prices of the best wheats, will make up to him in price what he would otherwise have received in bounty. Under these circumstances I consider it so much the more advisable to postpone the taking off the duty on wheat till the month of December, as we shall then be able to judge with more certainty whether the report of an unusually abundant wheat harvest in England is founded or not, and regulate our measures accordingly. Should the prices in England continue to that time between 50 s. s. s. s.; 444 "I have only to add, that had no restrictions on the importations of foreign grain existed in Europe generally, and especially in Great Britain, I have little doubt that the Tariff would never have passed through either house of Congress, since the great agricultural States, and Pennsylvania especially, the main mover of the question, would have been indifferent, if not opposed to its enactment." 445 "That this meeting having heard with the deepest interest the able address just delivered by Dr. Bowring upon the subject of our commercial relations with the States comprising the German League, earnestly invites public attention to the incontrovertible evidence thus afforded, that the Governments and people of Germany are desirous of exchanging their productions for the commodities of this country, proving from undoubted authority that we are prevented solely by our restrictive laws from embracing the manifold advantages offered to us." 446 "The only remedy universally, and often exclusively, suggested by the weavers and their employers, is the gradual, but ultimately total, repeal of the present Corn Laws. I have already stated the means by which it is supposed that their operation is peculiarly injurious to the hand-loom weavers; but it by no means follows that their repeal would be as beneficial as their enactment is supposed to have been injurious. Notwithstanding the excitement and the prejudices existing amongst the weavers on this subject (which are not a little encouraged and fostered by its political bearing, and the efforts of itinerant orators), the most intelligent are aware that if such repeal should have a very injurious effect on the agricultural interest, this effect will ultimately be felt by themselves; and it is from a great increase of the demand for textile manufactures on the part of those countries which, in the event of such repeal, would supply us with corn, that they expect a certain and considerable gain. How far any such increased demand might be checked by the commercial regulations of foreign Governments, influenced by a desire of what is called 'protecting' their own manufactures from British competition—how far the repeal of these laws might affect the value of money, or the prosperity of other classes of the community, under existing circumstances, it must, of course, be for the wisdom of the Legislature to consider."
 MR. MOFFAT  wished to know whether the discussion on the Sugar Duties would be taken at an advanced period of the Session, according to the usual practice, or would be taken at a very early period, as had been the case last Session?
 DR. BOWRING  said, that as the hon. Gentleman had distinguished him by his personal allusions, the House would allow him to say a few words. And, first, he would assure the hon. Member that the lady whom he had quoted had—no doubt with that knowledge of character for which ladies are remarkable—drawn very largely upon his credulity, and amused him with an oriental tale. That tale he seemed eagerly to have believed, and its romantic parts the more readily. Now, he would tell the hon. Gentleman what was true in the story—and it was true that he had discussed the subject of the Corn Laws with the Pacha of Egypt. It was true that the Pacha had defended his corn laws with as much, perhaps more, talent than the hon. Gentleman had exhibited in the maintenance of his own. Mahomet Ali fancied that he could regulate prices by legislation—provide food for his people by restrictions—and advantageously interfere between demand and supply by his own sovereign will. But he failed as others have failed. While residing at Cairo, with a commercial commission from the British Government, strong representations were made to him (Dr. Bowring) on the subject of the Pacha's decrees, which ordered that corn, beans, and bread, should be sold only on such and such terms. But neither farmers nor bakers would obey—the bazaars were left without grain—the shops had no supplies of bread—the more rigid and severe the ordinances for lowering prices, the higher those prices mounted. Famine menaced the city—the people were on the verge of insurrection. In such a state he had undertaken to be the organ of the public voice to the ruler of Egypt, and to represent to him, that however benevolent his intentions, his decrees were fearfully augmenting the alarm and the misery, and would infallibly lead to extensive and enduring distress. He told the Pacha that the causes which led to the rise and fall of prices were, for the most part, beyond the control even of the mightiest monarch, and that the only way to secure ample supplies at moderate rates was to remove all impediments to the ingress and egress of food; that prices would best regulate themselves; and that by allowing them to mount upwards was the certain means of bringing corn to the market. And it was his good fortune to persuade the Pacha of the correctness of these opinions, and to induce him to withdraw the decrees which interfered with the freedom of
 448 449
 MR. J. COLLETT : The question of Bishops and Archbishops being before the House, I think that I am not out of order in rising to express my regret that the death during the recess of the late Bishop of Bath and Wells, and the appointment of his successor, have prevented my bringing this year before the House that which last Session I was so frequently under the necessity of postponing—my Bill for the consolidation of the dioceses of Bath and Wells, and of Salisbury, at the death of the present (now the late) Bishop of Bath and Wells. Now, Sir, although no doubt the right hon. Baronet would have resisted its introduction, and would, no doubt, have had a majority to support his views, still he would, I think, have had a difficulty in combating my argument, which may be put in the shortest compass possible. This performance of the duties of two sees by one bishop during the last seven years, has either been efficient and satisfactory, or inefficient and unsatisfactory. If inefficient, it was the duty of the Government to have provided a remedy, by superseding the late bishop, and appointing in his stead one more capable of properly attending to the business of the diocese; if, on the contrary, this double duty was discharged in an efficient manner—if for seven years one bishop could properly attend to this accession of business, it stands to reason, Sir, that one bishop could attend to it for seventy years, and for ever. I have, indeed, every reason to believe, not only that the Bishop of Salisbury did discharge this duty in a satisfactory manner, but that he did not feel himself at all embarrassed by the weight of it; on the contrary, he has recently assumed a new duty by taking to himself a wife, who must be looked upon as a third
 450
 MR. TRELAWNY  wished to know whether it were the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring forward any measure during the present Session on the subject of Charitable Trusts?
 MR. BROTHERTON (for Mr. ELPHINSTONE)  having moved an Address to the Crown for a return of the gross and net Incomes (in the years 1844 and 1845) of the Archbishops and Bishops of England and Wales, etc., whether arising from their archbishoprics and bishopries,
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that his noble and learned Friend the Lord Chancellor would, at an early period, bring forward a Bill in the other House for the Regulation of Charitable Trusts.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  wished to apologize to the hon. Baronet for not having been in his place at an earlier hour. He understood that during his absence his right hon. Friend at the head of the Government had assured the hon. Baronet of the success of the measure respecting turnpike trusts in South Wales. No doubt he (Sir J. Graham) had reason to hope and believe that that experiment, so far as it had yet gone, had been successful. But in answering the question put by the hon. Baronet, he felt it right to remind the House how different was the question affecting the turnpike trusts of so limited a sphere as South Wales, from the great question of the turnpike trusts of all England and Wales. In the first place, the debt constituted the great difficulty of the question. The debt in South Wales amounted to only 280,000 l.; l. l. 452
 SIR R. PEEL  said, the hon. Gentleman was aware that the Sugar Duties were granted by an annual vote of Parliament; whereas the Custom Duties, to which his Motion the other night had express reference, were permanent duties. But, in taking a general view of our commercial policy, although he intended to reserve a discussion on the Sugar Duties until the Bill relating to them should he brought forward, he had thought it right to intimate the intentions of Her Majesty's Government with respect to those duties. The Sugar Duties were not included in the Tariff, because it referred to permanent duties only.
 SIR R. PEEL  should have no objection to bring forward the Sugar Duties on an early day after the measures to which he had called the particular attention of the House had been disposed of. He thought that as far as the Government business was concerned those measures were entitled to precedence, and until they had been disposed of he would not take the sense of Parliament upon the Sugar Duties. He had been aware of the inconvenience that would necessarily arise from a reference to the Sugar Duties sometime before the sense of Parliament could be taken upon the subject. But he had been convinced that he would have been asked what were the intentions of Her Majesty's Government upon that question; and he had felt that to have declined to give an answer, or to have given an equivocal answer, would have subjected the trade to greater embarrassment than any to which it could otherwise have been exposed.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, it was perfectly true that the noble Lord and the hon. Gentleman to whom the hon. Member referred had accepted office under the Crown; but that office was the stewardship of the Chiltern Hundreds. ( Laughter.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that before the Motion for a new writ could be made, certain forms must be gone through. These forms had not yet been complied with. The moment they had been through, he would make the fact known to the hon. Member.
 SIR R. PEEL : The duties will remain the same until the 5th April, 1847. From that date there will be a reduction in hewn timber of 5 s., s.; s. s.
 SIR R. PEEL , as he was upon his legs, would ask a question of the hon. Member for Newcastle-under-Lyne, or, if the hon. Gentleman was not in the House, the question could probably be answered by some of the hon. Gentlemen who usually acted with him. The hon. Member had given notice that he would, on Monday next, on the Motion being put that the Speaker leave the Chair, on the House going into Committee on the commercial policy of the country, move an Amendment. Perhaps it would be well that the House should be put in possession of the nature of the Amendment the hon. Gentleman intended to move.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I do not know, Sir, whether it is regular or not; but whilst I am in possession of the House, and this being the last evening on which I should have an opportunity before the departure of the next mail for America, I am anxious to take this opportunity of announcing the intentions of Her Majesty's Government with regard to the alterations about to be made in the import duties on timber. We propose, Sir, to make, ultimately, a reduction in the differential duties upon upon foreign timber, so that the duty shall remain, after the reduction has been effected at 15 s. s. s. s., s. s. s. 441
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  said, that as he then saw the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department in his place, he wished to put to him a question, to which the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government had been unable to give a complete and satisfactory answer. It appeared that the measure adopted in the southern part of Wales with respect to turnpike trusts had completely succeeded; and he wished to know whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring forward
 451
 MR. W. MILES  wished to know whether it was the intention of the right hon. Baronet to move for new writs in the room of the noble Lord and of the hon. Gentleman? If that were not his intention, he begged leave himself to move for a new writ for Dorsetshire.
 MR. W. MILES  said, he had heard that a noble Lord (Lord Ashley), one of the Members for Dorsetshire, and another hon. Gentleman, had accepted office under the Crown. He wished to know whether these rumours were well founded; and if so, whether new writs were about to be issued?
 MR. HAWES  asked, whether the right hon. Baronet proposed to lay on the Table any Papers of information upon which the Government might have relied in carrying out the proposed plan; and also whether the applications for the extension of jurisdiction alluded to would be produced, or the grounds upon which they were made stated?
 MR. KEMBLE  begged to ask whether it was the intention of the Government to extend the jurisdiction of Courts of Request, in accordance with the provisions of the Bill of last year?
 MR. ETWALL  said, that as he intended to bring forward a Motion on the subject of the Andover case, he would not then trouble the House; but he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet if the Andover Union was included among those which had remonstrated against the order. [Sir J. GRAHAM could not give a positive answer to the hon. Member.] He wished to state that the inquiry which had been instituted into the conduct of the authorities of Andover workhouse was not considered by the public as a satisfactory investigation into the facts of the case. There were
 458
 MR. GISBORNE  then said, he had a petition to present to the House of rather a particular character, and it complained of what, if true, involved a gross violation of the privileges of that House. The allegations contained in the petition were to the following effect, viz. — that on last Monday night a petition had been presented to the House, purporting to be the petition of one Edmond Carter, saying, that in the case of the Manchester and Southampton Railway Bill the Standing Orders had not been complied with, and that this petition was an interpolated one, and now lay in that state on the Table of the House amongst its Printed Papers. He had, therefore, to move that the petition he then presented, should be printed and referred to a Select Committee to investigate the allegations therein made.
 Mr. CHRISTIE  asked if there would be any objection on the part of Government to produce the letters of Mr. Chadwick, and the remonstrances which, it was said, Mr. Parker had used on the occasion; and stated that he intended to move an Amendment to the Motion of the hon. Member for Andover, for the purpose of extending the inquiry which he proposed to institute.
 SIR G. CLERK  had no objection to the production of the documents to which the hon. and gallant Member opposite referred. He believed the hon. and gallant Gentleman had correctly stated the case. The fact was that complaints had been made by the fishermen of both nations of their boats having been examined by the cruisers of both countries; and upon a communication taking place between the Governments of France and England, it had been thought better to confine the cases of search or visit to such fishing boats as might be suspected of violation of the terms of the Convention. This regulation was as good for the fishermen of one nation as another, and both French and English boats were convenienced by being preserved from the system. He could inform the hon. and gallant Member that a copy of the letter sent to the Customs had also been sent to the
 460
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  said the French Government had not yet passed any law to carry into effect the rules and regulations agreed on by the Convention. In consequence of the imperfect lettering, numbering, marking, and naming of their boats, it was difficult to identify any of them which might have been concerned in any aggression on a dark night.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  remarked, that it was believed there was a difference of opinion at Somerset House as to the power of the Commissioners to interfere with the boards of guardians, and in that belief he concurred. It was said that Mr. Chadwick thought the Commissioners had the power, and Mr. Lewis and his colleagues were of an opposite opinion. He was sure the right hon. Baronet had been informed that no power did exist to control the proceedings of the boards as to the employment of the paupers. The acquiescence of the Secretary of State to produce the Papers for which he had moved, gave him very great satisfaction; and he hoped he would consent to add to them a return of all the bones on hand in the various workhouses, the quantity purchased, and the time at which the purchase had been made; for it might appear that at the time when they were bought, the Tariff had been passed, under which a reduction of the duty on bones had been made.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  moved, pursuant to notice, for copies of the communications
 459
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  said, that it was now nearly eight years since he placed before the notice of the House the case of a labouring man in the Eastbourne Union, in Sussex, who had been brought to death's door by the system of labour to which the paupers were subjected in that workhouse. At the time, he was met by very unjust and very severe observations on the part of those who chose to defend the system of crushing bones in the various workhouses. Every year since that time he had endeavoured to press the matter on the attention of Government; and at length, he was happy to say, the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department had entered into the feelings of those who had brought that monstrous abuse, the practice of bone-crushing, before the House. The House was well aware, that during the last two Sessions the right hon. Baronet did state, on several occasions, that he highly disapproved of that practice, either by way of punishment or as a mode of useful employment. The Poor Law Commissioners, however, appeared to have thwarted the intentions of the Secretary of State; and, notwithstanding the fact that much pains were taken to promulgate the expression of his opinion regarding the practice, still every means was used to continue it throughout the country. Last Session, he moved for a Return of the number of Union Workhouses in which the paupers were employed in the abominable system of crushing or pounding bones, and
 455 456
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, he was not by any means disposed to offer any opposition to the Return for which the hon. and gallant Officer had just moved. It was quite true that from a very early period his opinions quite concurred with those of the hon. and gallant Officer, and that he considered the particular mode of employment under consideration as inexpedient, because it was of a degrading nature, and had
 457
 SIR J. GRAHAM  replied, that he could not answer the question of the hon. Member, as he had not given him (Sir J. Graham) any notice of his intention to put it.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  was glad the hon. Member had, by his question, given him an opportunity of explaining what were the intentions of Her Majesty's Government in this respect. Since the passing of the law of last Session, several petitions had been presented from various places asking for an extension of the jurisdiction of such courts under the Act in question; and these petitions had been referred to a Committee of the Privy Council; and instructions had been sent to all the Courts
 461
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, the hon. Gentleman must be aware, that, even without any such applications, the Bill, of last Session empowered an extension of the jurisdiction of these Courts of Request, where it might be deemed expedient and advisable. When the Privy Council had made their Report to Her Majesty, and Her Majesty had sanctioned that Report, he should be prepared to bring the entire subject before Parliament.
 DR. BOWSING  rose to ask, whether Her Majesty's Government had received from the Spanish Government any statement of their intention to visit the commerce of England with hostile measures on account of the unfavourable position in which the sugars of the Spanish colonies were left under the existing Tariff; and also, whether the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) had any knowledge of any instructions being given, or about to be given, in the Spanish colonies, the object of which would be to throw impediments in the way of the indirect communication of British vessels with those colonies—that is, vessels not trading directly between Great Britain and the Spanish colonics?
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that perhaps this would be the fittest time for the question of which he had given notice—whether Her Majesty's Government had had any further correspondence with the Spanish Government on the subject of the sugars of Cuba; and whether the right hon. Baronet was prepared to lay on the Table any such further correspondence?
 MR. LABOLCHERE  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet whether he were able to make the same statement with regard to the Brazilian Government or Legislature; or whether they had intimated any intention of acting with hostility towards our Colonies, in consequence of our measures hostile to the consumption of Brazilian sugar?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  answered, that almost immediately after the receipt by the Government of that Report of Dr. Playfair and Mr. Lindley which had been laid upon the Table, the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury, and himself, consulted upon the course proper to be taken; and orders were given for purchasing in the United States a certain quantity of maize for the consumption of the people of Ireland.
 MR. ELLICE  said, he had occasion to make representations to the Board of Trade on behalf of his constituents in Coventry, who were very much interested in some of the proposed reductions of duty. He believed that notwithstanding the anxiety they had expressed upon the subject they would give a general concurrence to the plan in question. But, at the same time, they had sent a memorial to the Board of Trade, expressing their earnest desire that under the peculiar circumstances of the case the reduction of the silk duties might not immediately take place, but might be delayed until the beginning of July, when the season for the sale of silk goods would have arrived. He hoped that the right hon. Baronet would be prepared to give to that subject some further consideration.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  wished to know whether the principle which the right hon. Gentleman had laid down in the answer he had given to his hon. Friend the Member
 494
 MR. O'CONNELL  hoped, that this Bill would not be withdrawn, or left in the hands of Government; but that it would be permitted to be read a first time, and in due course they would find whether the Bill referred to by the right hon. Baronet was essentially the same. Singular, indeed, it was, that at this time of day, that House should be called on to decide whether the exercise of the priestly office was to be made penal by Act of Parliament—whether a devoted attachment to religious exorcises, the abandonment of worldly cares, and the salvation of the souls of such individuals, as well as the souls of others—were things that the people of England wished to have punished by legal enactment. They had come to a curious period of the world's history. Who had not heard of persecutions of a most atrocious kind—of cruelties of the most hor-
 501
 LORD J. RUSSELL , allusion having been made to him, wished to say a few words as to his former declaration, that he was not ready at once to repeal these laws without consideration. Last Session he had voted for the Committee, but he had reserved to himself the right of weighing the details. It appeared to him that there was one part of the question that had not been sufficiently attended to: the measure of Government, as far as it was stated last year, did not effect that relief to the Roman Catholics from a law by which they were punished, both for assuming episcopal titles in Ireland, and for belonging to certain religious orders. That part of the subject required interference by the Legislature. As to preventing persons assuming particular titles, nothing could be more absurd and puerile than to keep up such a distinction. He had also the strongest objection to the law which made Jesuits in certain cases liable to transportation: the enactment was as intolerant as it was inefficacious, and it was fit that the law should be put on an intelligible and rational footing. Whether it would be expedient to repeal that part of the law which restricted monastic orders, or whether some security ought not to be required from them similar to that given by Protestant Dissenters, viz., that they should be registered and subjected to the inspection, if you will, of Roman Catholic visitors, was a great question he was
 502
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that so far from being opposed to the Motion of his hon. Friend, he had brought down to the House a Paper containing all the information required by his Motion, and that Paper he was ready to lay on the Table of the House, in order that there might be no delay. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had always acted while in office according to what he believed to be the uniform custom—namely, to consent to every application for the office of steward for the Chiltern Hundreds, when he had ascertained that such application came from the Member himself. Under such circumstances, the office was always granted without hesitation, and he had acted upon what had been the invariable custom; but in consequence of what had fallen from his hon. Friend, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would add, that he never felt that the duty devolved upon the Government of obtaining a new writ when such an office was granted. If the Government were responsible, and if that power of obtaining a new writ was confined solely to it, he was of opinion that the possession of such a power would be likely to lead to great abuses—to abuses which he had no doubt his hon. Friend (Mr. G. Bankes) would be one of the first to object to. The manner of granting the office of steward of the Chiltern Hundreds was, by the com-
 505
 MR. WILLIAMS  was of opinion, that the inquiry which the hon. Member opposite was desirous of instituting, might be carried still farther, for it was most desirable that the particulars of some recent resignations should be laid before the country; and it was also most essential for them to know if it were true that, in contravention of the orders of that House, any Peer or Peers had interfered, or used influence, in returning Representatives to sit there. He could name a Gentleman who held one of the highest offices of the Government, and whose constituents for the last fifteen years had been perfectly satisfied with his conduct in Parliament. That Gentleman had been recently appointed to the high office to which he had alluded; but he was not again returned by the constituency
 506
 LORD J. MANNERS  said, that it would
 500
 MR. B. BALDWIN  said, that he did not know how the petitions had been got up; they had merely been transmitted to him for presentation.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that he had no hesitation in stating to the hon. Gentleman and to the House, that the petition would only be valid with reference to those parts of it which had actually been presented, and that those parts which had not been presented could not be properly refer-
 488
 MR. WODEHOUSE  said, there were two questions he wished to put to the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Treasury, if he would indulge him with a moment's attention. One was, whether he would consent to take into consideration the expediency of placing the whole sum required under the head of medical relief to the poor upon the same footing? The Poor Law Commissioners had intimated, that in the agricultural districts the authorities were apt to give a less liberal salary than those in the manufacturing districts, and therefore it would be well, as such an unhappy collision between the two classes had arisen, that on nice questions and cases some persons eminent in the profession should be always at hand. The other question had more immediate reference to a person with whom the right hon. Baronet was personally acquainted—a very eminent person, known in the literary world as a great linguist, having edited French, German, and Spanish grammars, and also brought out a work on the use of the globes; his name was Rowbotham. That gentleman had drawn up a curious analysis of the relative taxation of land and houses; and the question he proposed to the right hon. Baronet was simply this — whether Mr. Rowbotham was not for some time employed by him as a teacher in the
 489
 MR. FRENCH  hoped there would be no objection to his calling the attention of the Speaker to a case of not exactly a similar kind, with regard to which he had already presented petitions. The statement was, that three petitions had been presented by the hon. Member for Totness (Mr. B. Baldwin) which had been interpolated with different statements after one of the parties had signed them, and had been presented as if they had been regularly signed, while the fact was that one of the parties was not aware of the additions made.
 MR. BANKES  rose to move for—
 "Returns of all applications for the Stewardship or Stewardships of the Chiltern Hundreds received from any Member or Members of Parliament by the Government during the present Session, with the date of such application, and date of the appointment, where such applications have been complied with. "Of all applications made to Government by Members of Parliament for appointments to offices of the like nature with the Stewardship of the Chiltern Hundreds, being appointments applied for with the view of vacating the Seats of the Applicants, and the dates of such appointments, where the applications have been complied with. "Of the particular Forms of Grants of the Stewardship or Stewardships of the Chiltern Hundreds and of other Grants of the like nature, and of the Time necessarily occupied in completing the same, when such Grants are made." 503 504
 SIR H. W. BARRON  said, that the right hon. Baronet had diverted the attention of the House from the main point. He did not wish that Irish spirits should pay a less duty in the English market than that paid by English spirits. His object merely was that there should be a reduction of the duty on the home-grown article proportioned to the reduction of the duty on the foreign commodity.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, of which he had given notice, respecting the duty on Irish, spirits. It was proposed that foreign spirits should be admitted at a reduced duty; and he wished to know whether any similar reduction was to be made on the duty upon Irish spirits, so that the Irish proprietors and the Irish distillers might not be placed in a worse position than that which they at present occupied in the English market?
 SIR H. W. BARRON  only wished to know whether a reduction of the duty on Irish spirits would be made corresponding with the reduction of the duty on foreign spirits?
 SIR H. W. BARRON  certainly felt that the question, as it appeared in the Notice Paper, was not sufficiently explicit; and he had, therefore, thought it his duty to state the immediate point to which he wished to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet.
 MR. PATTISON  inquired how soon the new duties would come into operation?
 MR. PATTISON  considered the answer given by the right hon. Gentleman to be highly satisfactory.
 MR. FORSTER  considered the principle of this transaction most objectionable. Such a system would be calculated to paralyse private enterprise; the public ought to know how the matter stood.
 MR. FORSTER  wished to ask the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether there was any truth in a report
 491
 MR. M. GIBSON  would postpone his Motion.
 MR. GISBORNE , who had placed a Notice on the Taper for a Select Committee on the petition of Charles Evans Deacon and John Wheeler, with reference to a petition which had been presented relative to this railway, said, that in rising to call the attention of the House to the petition, he had the pleasure of being able
 487
 MR. CHRISTIE  moved for copies of any Papers or Reports by Mr. Chadwick, Secretary to the Poor Law Commissioners, by Mr. Parker, late Assistant-Commissioner, or by any other Assistant-Commissioner, on the subject of bone-crushing in Union workhouses; and in doing so, he referred to passages in Mr. Parker's letter addressed to Sir J. Graham, for the purpose of showing that such representations had been made both by Mr. Chadwick and
 507
 MR. CHRISTIE  remarked, that though the documents were refused, he was glad to find from the statement of the right hon. Baronet, that it was made clear that both Mr. Chadwick and Mr. Parker had remonstrated against the practice of bone-crushing in workhouses.
 MR. CHRISTIE : The right hon. Baronet has said nothing about the paper by Mr. Parker.
 Mr. WATSON  rose to move, pursuant to Notice, for leave to bring in a—
 "Bill for the farther repeal of Enactments imposing pains and penalties upon Her Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects, on account of their religion." 496
 SIR J. GRAHAM  did not intend to offer any opposition to the introduction of the Bill by the hon. and learned Gentleman, if he should think it expedient, under the circumstances he was about to state, to persevere in his Motion. In consequence of what took place at the close of the last Session of Parliament, the whole subject of the Penal Laws, not only affecting Roman Catholics, but all dissenters from the Established religion, was referred to the Criminal Law Commissioners, with the direction that any Statute or portion of a Statute which in their opinion was susceptible of a penal character should be embodied in one Bill. During the recess the Criminal Law Commissioners, acting on that instruction, had framed a Bill, which
 497
 SIR J. GRAHAM  would not charge the
 499
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, he had no hesitation in stating to the hon. Gentleman that since that Act had come into operation many applications for naturalisation had been made under its provisions; and although he had entertained important doubts as to the expediency of passing-such a measure, he had reason to know that it had worked most satisfactorily.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  observed, that in cases of felony our law gave no appeal to any court of error. If the Judge who tried the prisoner entertained doubts with respect to the legality of the conviction, the course was for him to grant a respite of the sentence, until he could have an opportunity of consulting the other Judges. There was not always an argument heard in open court; very commonly it was a conference among the Judges themselves. If, after such conference, the Judge who tried the case should find his doubt of the validity of the conviction confirmed by his brethren, a communication was made to the Secretary of State, requesting him to recommend Her Majesty to grant a free pardon. In the case referred to, there was an argument, which was heard in the Court of Exchequer; in the ordinary course no judgment would be publicly given; but he (Sir J. Graham) was informed by the
 492
 SIR J. GRAHAM  replied, that the paper by Mr. Parker consisted of a mere memorandum on the back of certain other papers, which expressed an opinion that bone-crushing was not a good employment for the poor of the workhouses. Mr. Chad wick's paper was a more recent production; but both were alike of a confidential character.
 SIR J. GRAHAM : I did not say that they remonstrated against the practice; but merely that they had expressed an opinion.
 Sir J. GRAHAM  said, he was not aware when he spoke yesterday, that there were any such documents of the nature of those which the hon. Member had described; but in consequence of what the hon. Member had then stated, he had, in the course of that morning, made inquiries of the Poor Law Commissioners, and it did appear that there was a paper by Mr. Chadwick, in the nature of a memorandum, unsigned, but it was quite of a confidential nature, and intended entirely for the consideration of the Commissioners. He (Sir J. Graham) therefore hoped that the hon. Gentleman would not press for the production of the documents referred to; for it was impossible that public business could be conducted without differences occasionally occurring between superior authorities and the officers in their employment, and all public confidence would be destroyed if such documents were not to be considered of a confidential nature. He begged to say, therefore, that he could not consent to lay on the Table the Papers moved for.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, he hoped he was as incapable of misrepresenting the right hon. Baronet, as of endeavouring to mislead the House. But he believed that the recollection of the House would go with him when he re-asserted, that the right hon. Baronet, although he had not said that he adopted the Bill of the hon. and learned Gentleman—and perhaps he (Sir R. Inglis) ought to apologise for having put those words in the right hon. Baronet's mouth—he believed that the recollection of the House would go with him when he re-asserted, that the right hon. Baronet had stated, that if the Bill were the same in substance as that of last year, a similar Bill, (he believed that the words were, "a Bill as comprehensive,") had been brought forward by Her Majesty's Government in the other House of Parliament. If he had misunderstood the right hon. Baronet, he would be ready to apologise to him. But the right hon. Baronet had stated, that the Bill of last year would not repeal the Act of Supremacy. He, however, pledged himself, that this was a prominent point in the Bill of the hon. and learned Gentleman; and it was as prominent a point, if he were not mistaken, in the Bill introduced into the other House by the Lord Chancellor.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  had felt it his duty not to rise until his right hon. Friend had addressed the House. He rejoiced on one account, and on one poor account only, at the observations which had fallen from him; and that was, because they had clearly proved to his mind that in his predictions last Session he had not wasted the time of the House; the fears which he had entertained last year, having in the present year been realized by Her Majesty's Government. He wished that hon. Gentlemen opposite would permit him to urge upon them respectfully and seriously the expediency of leaving their separate projects, whatever they might be, in the hands of Her Majesty's present advisers. He believed that the advice just tendered by the right hon. Baronet to the hon. and learned Member for Kinsale might with equal sincerity be tendered to other Members of the House; and that the objects which other hon. Members had in view would be attained quite as readily as the objects of the hon. and learned Gentleman would be attained, by transferring their labours to Her Majesty's Government. He did not mean to divide the House on the Motion for leave to bring in the Bill then under their consideration; but he wished to remind the House what was the nature of the Bill which the hon. and learned Gentleman had brought forward last year, and what was the nature of the Bill, precisely similar in its provisions, which he now asked leave to introduce; and which the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department had adopted as his own. It was a Bill to repeal the Act of Supremacy; it was a Bill to enable Roman Catholic bishops to assume the titles of the sees of prelates of the Established Church; it was a Bill to legalize processions (and processions, let them recollect, of one class of persons, while they had prohibited the processions of another class of persons on the ground of their exciting public opposition and hostility); it was a Bill to repeal the Act for expelling the Jesuits. Could any hon. Member deny that that was a fair summary of the Bill
 498
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that the hon. Baronet put the question as if he were disposed to complain of a grievance. But there was in reality no grievance whatever in the case. Ireland was permitted to distil spirits on payment of a duty of 2 s. d., s. d.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that Irish spirits introduced into England or into Scotland, were permitted to be entered on paying the same amount of duty to which English spirits and Scotch spirits were subject. He was sure that the hon. Gentleman did not mean to ask that Irish spirits should be admitted into England on payment of the Irish duty. That duty was only 2 s. d; s., 495
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that the Notice given by the hon. Baronet was as follows:—"To ask Sir R. Peel if any alteration is to be proposed by which the landed interest in Ireland may have the benefit of the British markets for Irish spirits." Surely the landed interest in Ireland would not be deprived of any advantage to which they were fairly entitled by the proposed alteration of the duty on foreign spirits.
 SIR R. PEEL  would take that occasion of noticing that the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Gibson) proposed to move for the production of correspondence, in continuation of that presented last year, relative to the conduct of Brazil with reference to the Convention of 1826 and the Slave Trade Act of last Session; it would be very desirable that that Motion should be postponed. The last despatch presented last Session from Lord Aberdeen to the British Minister concluded thus:—
 "You are already aware that the measure by which, in the opinion of Her Majesty's Government, the Government of Brazil would best evince their determination to carry out the intention which they have so solemnly recorded, would be the negotiation of a Treaty similar either to that concluded between Great Britain and Spain in 1835, or to that between Great Britain and Portugal of 1842. Should the Brazilian Government show any willingness to entertain the question of such a Treaty, you will frankly declare that nothing would give Her Majesty's Government more sincere pleasure than to find themselves relieved, by the conclusion of it, from enforcing the operation of the Bill which they are now about to propose to Parliament; and you will assure the Brazilian Ministers, that it will be a source of real satisfaction to Her Majesty's Government to return to a good understanding, both on this and on other subjects, with a nation in whose welfare and independence they have, from the earliest times, taken a lively interest, and whose growing prosperity and power they have witnessed with the greatest gratification. I am, &c. "ABERDEEN."
 SIR R. PEEL  said, the terms of this inquiry were rather vague, as it asked respecting any intimation given by the Brazilian Government or Legislature; he would rather be accurate in his reply, and would therefore give an answer next day; because, as to "intimation," he could hardly speak.
 SIR R. PEEL  answered, that so soon as the House should have affirmed any Resolution it might be pleased to come
 493
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that, as soon as the Resolutions should have passed, if they were to be passed, and should have been reported to the House, he proposed that the reduction of the duties on corn should at once take effect.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that the answer he had given to the hon. Member for London did not preclude him from listening to any representations that might be made with respect to any particular trade. He must do the people of Coventry the justice to say, that although their interests would be more interfered with by the proposed alterations of duty than the inhabitants of any other town, they had shown a readiness to bear their share of the reductions, which entitled them to the highest credit. But he felt a sincere conviction that they would not be benefited by any delay in carrying out the alterations in question.
 SIR R. PEEL , in answer to the first question, observed, that while proposing that a part of the salaries of medical officers should be borne by the Treasury by means of a Vote of Parliament, he was very anxious that there should be a local check against an improvident expenditure, by the ratepayers bearing a portion of the expense, as well as by the revision incidental to an annual Vote in Parliament. Provision for medical relief would, no doubt, be most willingly made by whatever body had the control of it; but there was a tendency to abuse in such cases, and therefore the double check was proposed. However, perhaps if the hon. Gentleman could have assured him of his cordial support of the other portions of the proposed measures, he might have endeavoured to yield upon this. As to the other point, he really could not say that he had any recollection of employing the individual whose name had been mentioned in the way supposed by the hon. Member.
 SIR R. PEEL  answered, that there had been a further correspondence; two letters had passed, one on each side. There might be some inconvenience in laying them on the Table at present; and perhaps the noble Lord would be satisfied with his (Sir R. Peel's) assurance, that the House should be in possession of them on a future day, in ample time before the discussion on the Sugar Duties.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that Her Majesty's Government certainly had not received any communication from the Spanish Government which led him to believe that the Spanish Government had any intention hostile to the commerce of this country. By some Papers which would be laid upon the Table of the House, it would be seen that the Spanish Government had reserved to itself the power of acting upon principles unfavourable to the British Government; but no communication had been received from it, indicating any intention to make use of that power. So far from it, in a very recent discussion, the following was
 490 "Our motto is—'Good will towards all, friendship with some, special intimacy with none.' As tar as England is concerned, it has rarely happened that our relations with that country have been more frank, more friendly, and more satisfactory, than they are at this day. The Spanish Government has received on various recent occasions proofs of the confidence which England places in our probity and good faith."
 MR. HUTT  said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department with respect to the naturalisation of foreigners. The House would recollect that an Act had been lately passed which altered in a material degree the laws previously in force upon that subject. He wished to ask the right hon. Baronet whether that alteration had, in his opinion, worked satisfactorily?
 MR. HUTT  inquired, whether the Government were in a condition to lay on the Table an account of the grounds on which the Judges had decided that we had no jurisdiction in the case of the Brazilian prisoners who were tried for felony at the last Summer Assizes; and also, whether it were the intention of Government to repeal any part of the Brazilian Slave Trade Act passed last Session?
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  could not avoid expressing as his opinion that it would be better to get rid of all these forms of applying for and obtaining the stewardship of the Chiltern Hundreds, and to leave Members at liberty at once, when they so thought fit, to resign their seats.
 MR. BERNAL  said, the labours of the Committees were only in their infancy, or perhaps merely yet in parturition. He rather approved of the proposition contained in the Resolutions with respect to those Bills which were to be originated in the House of Lords, and felt inclined to waive any objections of a technical character which he might otherwise have felt towards the adoption of such a course. But with respect to the preference which was to be given to the Irish Bills, he confessed he could see neither the justice, the advantage, the policy, nor the utility of such a mode of proceeding. There was at present a great desire in the public mind of this country to know for certain what railway projects would be perfected, and what would not. And if this plan for preferring
 521
 The O'CONNOR DON  hoped the House would permit him to make an observation or two, in consequence of what had fallen from his hon. Colleague. It was well known how impossible it was to satisfy every one; but he thought it only his duty, as an Irish Member, to state, in his place in the House, that both the Committee of the Lords and that of the Commons had manifested the greatest anxiety to meet the exigency at present unfortunately existing in Ireland. They both considered that it would be of great importance dining the period intervening between May and August next, that provision should be made for the condition of the people through the medium of employment; and they had conceived that if, by the facilitating of Irish Railway Bills through Parliament, employment would be thus secured for the poor, it would be of much service to do so. They had felt those reasons for giving increased
 522
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  wished to observe, that the projects now competing with the London and York line were not the same as the projects competing with it last Session. If they had been the same, he should not on that occasion have uttered one word of complaint.
 MR. COLLETT  wished to remind the House that the promoters of railways could not commence the works until some months after they had obtained their Bills. He thought that the Government ought to take some means for further expediting the progress of railway business.
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  thought that Resolution would, if adopted, lead to very unfair results. It was proposed by that Resolution that "all Bills which compete with, or ought to be considered in connexion with, any Bills, the promoters of which shall prove themselves entitled to the privileges agreed to be granted in certain cases by the Resolutions of this House of the 7th July last, shall commence in the House of Lords." Now, the result of that Resolution would be, that the London and York Bill, which had passed that House, would be placed in a more unfavourable position than the competing schemes which they had last year rejected; for the promoters of those competing schemes would have had an opportunity of altering their Bills since last Session, and could at once launch them in the House of Lords. In fact they would have the same privileges in the House of Lords as if they had passed the Commons in the present Session. There were at present two schemes competing with the London and York line—namely, the Direct Northern, and the lines from Cambridge to York. There were but two lines from London to York under the consideration of the Committee of that House last Session; and as that Committee had sat during eighty days, he was much afraid that the Committee of the House of Lords, which would have three projects to consider, might have to sit 120 days. But he had risen for the purpose of stating that, although he was convinced that the Select Committee had been actuated by an earnest desire to discharge their duties impartially, the Resolution then before the House might produce very unfair results.
 MR. JAMES  said, he had given notice of a question which he intended to put to the Secretary of the Admiralty; but he had received a communication from that hon. Gentleman, stating that he had gone out of town, but that the right hon. Member for Ripon would be in his place and give him a reply. He begged, therefore, to ask that right hon. Baronet, whether the attention of the First Lord of the Admiralty had been directed to an electric telegraph recently invented by a scientific gentleman of the name of Knott? The machinery of this telegraph, as he understood, was of so simple a nature, was so much less complicated, and less liable to get out of order, than any other telegraph hitherto invented; and could be got, besides, at comparatively so cheap a cost, that it would be of great importance, not only to the Admiralty service, but to the interests of the country at large. He was given to understand that the late First Lord of the Treasury (Lord Haddington), after Dr. Faraday, with the principal Engineer on the London and Birmingham Railway, and other scientific gentlemen, had reported favourably of it, had given orders to the officers of the establishment over which he had control to make a special report on the subject. Such a report, he understood, was made by Captain Brandon and General Pasley; and he wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman would have any objection to state the nature of that report, or whether he would have any objection to lay it on the Table of the House?
 MR. JAMES  was much obliged to the right hon. Baronet for the information. He understood, decidedly, that Dr. Faraday
 528
 LORD G. SOMERSET  believed that by that Resolution the public interest would be promoted, while ample justice would be done to all the parties interested. It was quite clear that as the other House of Parliament had not yet considered the London and York, or any of the competing schemes, they must, under any circumstances, have before them all the rival projects. His opinion was that the course proposed was the course which would be most advantageous for the promoters of the London and York line, if that line were the best. The public would also be benefited by a thorough investigation of the different proposed schemes of communication between London and York.
 LORD G. SOMERSET  rose to call the attention of the House to the first Report of the Select Committee appointed to consider the mode in which the House should deal with Railway Bills in the present Session. Two points had to be brought under consideration. In the first place, with regard to Irish Railway Bills, it was the opinion of the Committee that great
 519
 MR. ROSS  suggested that all Bills which had made any progress in that House, with the exception of Bills relating to competing lines, should be allowed to be proceeded with; and that all Bills relating to competing lines, or which had not made any progress in that House, should be referred immediately to the House of Lords.
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, he wished to offer a few words to the House on the subject of the Motion of the noble Lord, which appeared to him particularly to affect two classes of Railway Bills—namely, Irish Bills, and such as in this country were in the same class as the London and York Bill. In these cases it was proposed by the plan suggested, that they should commence in the House of Lords. Now he objected to that first part of the Resolution which rendered it compulsory on the promoters of such measures as had completed all their arrangements for proceeding before the House of Commons, to commence their Parliamentary course in the Lords. He did not see why the Irish Bills should meet with any particular favour or encouragement over English or Scotch Bills; neither could he conceive why Irish Bills should be placed in any situation different from that of English and Scotch Bills. He did not want this announcement made with such a flourish of trumpets that Irish business was to be given a greater facility than any other, and that this would be advantageous for Ireland.
 520
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, one object was quite clear in the present Resolutions, and it was one that every Member of the House, he believed, would concur in, that it was expedient to afford every facility to the passing of Irish Railway Bills through the Legislature. But then came the question, do you give these facilities by the proposed measures? It was recommended by the Resolutions that all Irish Railway Bills should commence in the House of Lords. The hon. Member for Roscommon, who ought to know something of the matter, being an Irish Representative, said that this object of facilitating the passing of such Irish Bills would not be effected by such a course. He had been on a Railway Committee that day, before which an Irish Bill had come in its preliminary stages. He would ask the noble Lord opposite, and the Railway Committee who acted with him, would they not attain their object better by not compelling such promoters of Irish Railway Bills as were ready at present to go before the Commons, to commence in the Lords? Would it not be more advisable to allow such to commence in that House, as they were prepared to do? If it was true that it was easier to originate a Bill in the Commons than the Lords, he would ask them not to compel the adoption of the latter course.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  wished to remind the House and the Government that it was impossible that the works on a line could be commenced at an earlier period than three months after a Bill had been obtained. In the first place, there must be calls made, and notices given of those calls; in the second place, possession of the ground must be got, which involved a very tedious process; and, in the third place, there must be contracts advertised, so that a considerable time would necessarily elapse before the works on any railway could be commenced. The House would, therefore, be deceived if they thought they could give employment in Ireland during the spring, or early in the summer, by passing any Railway Bill this Session in a manner consistent with the usual forms of the House; for it would then be impossible that the works could be commenced before August or September next.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  repeated the question which he had put to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government yesterday, viz., whether the British Government or Legislature had taken any steps of a retaliatory nature, in consequence of the duties upon their sugar as competing with free-labour sugar which had been adopted by this country?
 MR. GREENE  said that Bills could not be placed in a worse position, by their being immediately referred to the House of Lords. Many Bills would probably be brought back from the House of Lords at as early a period as the consideration of them could be commenced in the House of Commons.
 SIR G. CLERK  was at a loss to know what possible impediment was thrown in the way of an Irish Railway Bill by appointing its commencement in the Lords instead of the Commons. It was said that it would be more expensive to adopt this course, particularly with Bills which were ready to go before the House of Commons. This allegation he could not concur in. It should be recollected the length of time which should elapse between different stages of the Bill. There was another point to be considered in discussing the present question, and that was the great inconvenience and awkwardness which might result from the fact of the House of Commons giving its consent to one Bill, and the House of Lords doing the same with respect to a competing line. Now, if there was no competing line, and if a Bill was obliged to pass through the ordeal of the two Houses, no substantial injustice could be done to the parties by beginning their case before one tribunal sooner than another; and the whole of the terms of the Standing Orders of both Houses should be complied with. Under such circumstances, he considered no practical inconvenience whatever could ever arise from these propositions.
 SIR G. COCKBURN  replied, that it was quite true that Mr. Knott did propose certain alterations or improvements in the electric telegraph, and that the Lords of the Admiralty had requested Captain Brandon and General Pasley to examine it and report upon it, which they had both done unfavourably. General Pasley considered it to be substantially on the same principle as the telegraph at present in use, but with some variations of an inferior kind. General Pasley had likewise stated that Mr. Knott appeared to be little acquainted with the principle of the telegraph, and that, therefore, it would not be wise in the Government to induce him to put himself, and certainly it would not be wise to put the country, to any additional expense on the subject.
 MR. WARD  believed that the Resolution would operate fairly for all parties. There had been a complaint last year that the Select Committee of that House had been unable, from want of time, to hear the whole of the evidence in the case referred to their consideration. It had been said, however, that there was a place of refuge for the discontented parties—namely, the House of Lords. The three schemes of communication between London and York were at present about to be brought before
 525
 SIR R. PEEL : I wished to postpone giving an answer to the question when put to me yesterday, in order that in answering it I might be able to state exactly the position in which our relations stand with respect to our commercial intercourse with Brazil. In the month of January, 1845, the Brazilian Legislature passed a law which empowered the Brazilian Executive, in its discretion, to impose upon the vessels of those States which had not given the Brazilian vessels the same facilities of intercourse which were given to native vessels, discriminating duties. The Brazilian Legislature also passed a law authorizing the Government to impose discriminating duties to the prejudice of those countries which did not admit Brazilian produce on the footing of the most favoured nation. The Brazilian Executive had, by that act of the Brazilian Legislature, the power of imposing discriminating duties unfavourable to this country; but the Brazilian Government have not yet acted upon that power, and up to this period we have had no intimation of their intention to act upon it.
 SIR JOHN YARDE BULLER  brought up the Report on the Petition for the Ayrshire and Galloway Railway Bill. On the question that it do lie on the Table,
 MR. HODGSON HINDE  begged to be permitted, before the Report was received, to ask a question of the Attorney General, on a point of law which had been raised and decided by the Committee. He did not wish to impugn the decision of the Committee; but he thought it necessary, in a case which involved so serious a point of law as regarded Scotch Bills, to have the opinion of the Attorney General. Parties in Scotland came before that House to ask for its consent to a contract drawn up between themselves in a manner which they considered perfectly valid. He wished to direct special attention to the case of the Ayrshire and Galloway Railway. The 40th Standing Order of the House provided that parties who appeared as trustees to Railway Bills should bind themselves, their heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns, duly to the performance of the contract, and that if the parties did not so bind themselves and their heirs, &c., they should not be admitted as having complied with the Standing Orders. Now the objection taken to the contract, in the case before them, was, that the parties who were the trustees named in it were also shareholders, and therefore not bound as the Standing Orders required, and the Committee came to the following Resolution in consequence:—
 "Resolved—That the Standing Orders in this case have not been complied with, inasmuch as subscription to the contract deed is not valid." 542
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  thought it of course his duty, appealed to as he had been, to state what opinion he had formed with regard to the point submitted to him. Under the Standing Order mentioned by the hon. Gentleman, it was required that the parties subscribing to the deed as trustees should bind themselves, their heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns. The effects were understood to be, that the subscription deed so signed was then a deed to which the shareholders were the parties of the first part, and the parties of the second part were the two trustees. In the case submitted by the hon. Gentleman, the decision was that one of the trustees named in the deed being also a shareholder—[An hon. MEMBER: Both the trustees being shareholders]—that, consequently, the shareholders had covenated separately and jointly to the amount of the subscription with trustees who were at the same time covenanters and covenantees to a contract made by themselves and with themselves, and that the deed was therefore invalid. Since the Committee had arrived at that decision they had, he believed, modified it in this manner—that the deed was invalid so far as affected the trustees alone. Now, it appeared to him (the Attorney General) that the Committee, with every respect for them, had entirely mistaken the case. The question was, whether the subscription contract deed was or was not in compliance with the Standing Orders, which required that the parties to it should bind themselves, their heirs, executors, administrators, &c., to the performance of the contract. Now, that was done by the trustees as well as the shareholders. It was certain that in a court of law there would be difficulty of proceeding, because a party could not sue himself. But in a Court of Equity, where the objection would not prevail, the parties would be compelled to fulfil their contract. But in this case the House should recollect that it was a Scotch case, and that in Scotland no such difference existed as in this country between Courts of Law and Equity, and it would not so much signify whether the party were liable in law or in equity only. His opinion therefore was, that the contract deed was in strict compliance with the Standing Orders. That even in England it would be good, but in
 543
 SIR JOHN Y. BULLER , as the chairman of the Committee whose decision was impugned, begged leave to offer a few observations upon the subject, although he confessed it would not become him, after the opinion given by the Attorney General, to venture to contest his view of the law of the case. It had now been laid down decidedly as a point of law; but the decision of the Committee of which he was chairman was given in accordance with decisions of the last Session, and no Bill under similar circumstances would, under those decisions, have been allowed to proceed. But were any lawyer except the Attorney General asked whether the remedy in a Court of Equity, to which the learned Attorney General had alluded, would not be worse than the disease, what did the House think would be his answer? However, he had no objection to allow the question to be referred to the Standing Orders' Committee. Let that Committee take the whole question into consideration; and if they thought that all subscription contracts so signed as those under consideration were valid, let them so decide it, and let the decision be received as final. But even in case such were the decision, he hoped that Gentlemen would not put themselves in the anomalous position of being trustees and shareholders under the same contract.
 MR. COLLETT  had seen a statement put forth in the public prints, to which he wished to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman. The statement was headed "Singular Flaw in the operation of the Corn Laws," and was as follows:—
 "A singular flaw in the operation of the Corn Laws has recently come to light. The old Act of 9 George IV., cap. 60, was repealed by the new sliding-scale of Sir Robert Peel, which came into operation on the 29th of April, 1842. By a strange blunder, three days elapsed between the expiration of the old and the operation of the new Act, which did not escape the lynx-eyed scrutiny of certain parties in this town, who are sometimes facetiously styled 'rogues in grain.' They took large quantities of grain out of bond on the plea that no duty could be levied during the three days' interregnum. But the Customs' authorities would not listen to such a free-and-easy reading of the Act, and the duty was accordingly paid under protest. The amount of duty so paid was upwards of 80,000 l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, as the hon. Member had not previously called his attention to the question, he was not able to give farther information than was contained in the paragraph in the newspapers; but he should be ready to give the information asked on a future day.
 LORD NORREYS  said, having been a supporter of the right hon. Baronet, from 1830 to the present period; having given a steady support to all the measures of the present Government, agricultural and financial, and to the whole of their Irish policy; it was with no inconsiderable regret that he felt himself compelled, not only to oppose the measure now before them, but to state also that he could place no further confidence in the right hon. Gentleman's Administration. He had waited to hear the right hon. Gentleman's explanation, and he had waited to learn the measures proposed by him before he had deserted his ranks. He thought the course which had been taken out of the House, in condemning the right hon. Baronet behind his back, and without a hearing, was unfair and unmanly. He thought it was an unconstitutional course, that attempts should have been made to pledge Members of Parliament before the measure was known; and if he had submitted to such a demand, he should have
 566 567 s. s. "Out of office you declared yourself in favour of those measures—in office you repeated the assurance that you were faithful to your principles. Will it suffice to answer, when your constituents require the fulfilment of your promises, 'I gave you no pledges—declarations in abundance I admit, but pledges I utterly disclaim?' They will remind you that they lifted you, through their favour, to the councils of the Empire. If their native tongue will not suffice, you have taught them, by reminding me of former reproaches, where they may find, in the passionate exclamation of Dido, the fit expression of their sorrow—
 'Nusquam tuta fides.' 568 You remain deaf to their entreaties—you have nothing but the miserable answer of Æneas after all his coquetting in the cavern—
 'Non hæc in fœdera veni.' I gave you no pledges.'"
 MR. A. J. B. HOPE  wished to say a few words upon the measure, not in reference to its being a question of the Corn Laws, or a question of free trade; but simply on the ground of whether or not the present Parliament was morally, as well as legally, capable of dealing with it. Under what circumstances had the present Parliament been elected five years ago? The right hon. Baronet had been at that period—in the year 1841—at the "head of Her Majesty's Opposition." He had led the struggle against free trade, rightly or wrongly, at the time when the noble Lord the Member for London (Lord J. Russell), as a last effort of the Whig Government (that Government which had then ruled England since 1830, and had in the natural course of events become effete), had brought forward his free-trade scheme; the right hon. Baronet had opposed him on that occasion, and compelled the noble Lord to appeal to the country. The country had responded to that appeal, and returned them, the House of Commons of 1841, as a protectionist Parliament to crush free trade; and the House of Commons had chosen the right hon. Baronet as the leader of that party. And now, in 1846, they were called upon to pass the very same measure—nay, a far stronger and more sweeping measure than that which their constituents had returned them to oppose and put down. Rightly or wrongly, that had taken place; and by
 593 594 Ego et rex meus; 595 596
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I believe, Sir, that, I am the first Member who has risen on this side of the House on the important
 602 603 s. s. l. 604 605 d. s. s. 606 s. s. s. 607 608 609 l. l., l. l. l. 610 611 612
 MR. LIDDELL  had a question to ask, and would in the first place remind the House that the noble Lord the late Member for Dorset had put a Notice on the book to call attention to the state of the juvenile population of London, Westminster, and Southwark. As that noble Lord had relinguished his important duties for a time (and for a time only he hoped), perhaps he (Mr. Liddell) might be permitted to read a few sentences delivered by a learned Judge to show how necessary it was to do something in the matter. ["Question!" "Order!"] He did not intend to exceed the limit usually granted in putting a question, and would merely explain his object, having already brought it under the notice of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Home Department. He would ask whether Government, after having read these remarks, were prepared to take any step towards the improvement and reformation of the juvenile population of the metropolis?
 MR. S. HERBERT : If I were called upon to cite authority in confirmation of my opinions, and in favour of the expediency and justice of the course which Her Majesty's Ministers are prepared to adopt, I think, of all the speeches I have heard this evening, I should select the two last speeches of my two hon. Friends as those which furnish the strongest arguments against the conclusions which they announce as their convictions, and against the course which they intend to take on the present question. An attempt has been made to show, in a speech mixed up with much hostile feeling and prejudice against the conduct of Her Majesty's Government, that there are no circumstances existing in this country which call for legislative interference—still less that there are grounds for interference to stop the usual course of law—that nothing has occurred either in this country or in Ireland which could have justified all parties in stepping out of their previous course, and announcing a great change of opinions—a change of opinions forced upon them by different circumstances, which no man by
 622 "We regret to add, that we have been unable to obtain any proof of this; on the contrary, we have seen that the crop was small, and we have it in evidence that it is below the average; but we have also seen it to be heavy, and we therefore conclude that it may, perhaps, be an average crop." 623 d. d.; s. 624 625 s. 626 s. s. s.; 627 628 "I am quite sure that if the Wiltshire hills were farmed as they ought to be, and as under the proposed measure I hope they will be, you would not find a labourer unemployed in the whole county. Light-land farmers attach too much importance to their wheat-crops; they grow corn on too large a proportion of their farm, and do not consume half enough on their land by stock—viz., they ought to produce more beef, mutton, and pork, and less grain. I can, Sir, give you an example how far good and high farming permanently improves the soil. There was a common field in Berkshire which was occupied by several persons, one of whom was a baker, who had three acres in different parts of the field. He used to fatten a great many pigs, which made much very rich manure; this he applied very liberally to his land; and although it is ten years since the field was divided, yet the baker's acres may be discovered at this day by the most casual observer, from their increased and surpassing fertility—thus proving not only the advantages of this high system of cultivation, but the necessity of a long tenure to enable the farmer to obtain such a full return as his energy and capital so well merit. By compliance with the conditions I have above mentioned, the landlords' rentals will not be decreased, but their tenants will be prosperous and their labourers employed at good wages. Another argument which is used by the opponents of free trade, is, 'the reduction which it will cause in the wages of the agricultural labourer'—founding this opinion on the fallacy that the price of labour varies with the price of wheat. Now, my own experience fully controverts this statement; for, since I have been in Wiltshire, I have sold wheat as high as 78 s. s. s. s. 629 630 631 d. 632 633 634
 MAJOR FITZMAURICE  said, that under the tree of British protection every species of industry had flourished in this country, and the result of free trade would be, that it would throw a large mass of land out of cultivation in exact proportion
 620 s. 621 "Blow, blow, thou wintry wind, Thou art not so unkind As man's ingratitude?"
 MR. W. LASCELLES  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just concluded his address seemed to think that the country had attained the prosperity which had been its lot, entirely in consequence of the restrictions on trade which had been so long imposed upon it. He owned that the hon. Gentleman seemed to him to have read very incorrectly the history of the Empire. In his view, ever since the commencement of the time when restrictive policy began to be applied, they were visited with a series of fluctuations in the price of food which could not be otherwise than detrimental to the country. Previous to the passing of the Reform Bill the principles of free trade were not considered as belonging exclusively to any party. Mr. Huskisson was in a Tory Cabinet supported in his measures by the Whigs; and he must deny that upon the reconstruction of the Conservative party, after the Reform Bill, its commercial principles were those founded on a restrictive policy. He, for one, had never considered
 564 565
 MR. BAILIE COCHRANE  was compelled to differ from the opinion expressed by some hon. Gentlemen at recent meetings of the agricultural societies, and he could not agree with them that the Corn Laws involved a Christian and religious principle. On the contrary, looking through the whole history of the Corn Laws, he could not discover any principle at all, a principle being something immutable, not taking its colour from the impulse of the moment, and beyond the influence of the circumstance and the hour. So far from a
 569 s. s. s. s. s.; "If this principle of the incompetency of Parliament be admitted, or fi it be contended that Parliament has no authority to discuss or decide upon this measure, you will be driven to the necessity of recognizing a principle the most dangerous ever adopted in a State—the principle that Parliament cannot adopt any new measure of great importance without an appeal to the constituent body. This idea may be traced to that gross perversion of the principles of all political society, which supposes that there rests continually a sovereignty in abeyance, on the part of the people, to be called forth whenever it suits the interest of party or of faction." 570 Hansard, Hansard Facies non omnibus una. 571 572 573 juste milieu; 574 "A way with the cant of measures not men, of the idle supposition that it is the harness and not the horses which drag the chariot along."
 MR. RUTHERFURD  agreed with the Attorney General, that the decision of the Committee was erroneous.
 MR. CARDWELL  would shortly state what had been done in this matter. After the Resolutions to which the hon. Member referred were passed, instructions were given to the Commissioners of Audits to revise the whole of the regulations under which the sums dispersed over the Colonies were paid. The revisal immediately commenced. He believed it was now nearly completed; and when the regulations had been so revised by the Commissioners of Audits, they would be circulated in all the Colonies, accompanied with instructions that they should be immediately carried out.
 MR. STRUTT  differed from the Attorney General; but, admitting the correctness of that hon. and learned Gentleman's view of the law, he thought that there should be some provision against the extreme difficulty of the parties obtaining relief only in the Court of Chancery. He had some doubts, even, if the Standing Order had not been expressly framed with a view of providing against the chance of appeals to Equity, and of compelling such a state of things as would substitute the shorter relief to be had in a Court of Law.
 MR. G. PALMER  wished to know whether the right hon. Baronet intended that the House should go on with the Corn Bill from day to day, or whether there should be any interval?
 DR. BOWRING  asked whether any and what measures had been taken by Her Majesty's Government to inquire into the causes of the disease said to have broken out at Boa Vista, in consequence of communication with the Eclair?
 DR. BOWRING  asked what steps, if any, the Government had taken to give effect to the recommendations of the Committee on colonial accounts, those recommendations having obtained the sanction of the House?
 MR. BRIGHT  wished to put a question to the right hon. Home Secretary, founded upon the report of the factory inspectors, and regarding the distribution of the money to factory schools arising from fines under the Factory Act. It appeared that Mr. Horner had given 150 l. l. l. l. 545
 MR. P. MILES  said: Sir, I rise to move the Amendment of which I have given notice—
 "That this House will, upon this day six months, resolve itself into the said Committee." 550 s. d. 551 552 553 554 s. s. s. 555 "cheapness produced by the importation of corn from abroad, is a sure forerunner of scarcity; but that steady home supply is the only sure foundation for steady moderate prices." 556 557 l., l., l.; l. l. s. 558 559
 MR. GREENE  suggested that, instead of sending the case before the Standing Orders' Committee, the Report should be referred back to the Committee which had sent it up. He moved that it be recommitted.
 MR. DEEDES  was perfectly aware, that in rising to address the House on so important a subject, and at so early a period of the debate, he was laying himself open to the charge of great presumption; but when that importance was duly considered, not with reference only to his constituents, but with regard to all classes of Her Majesty's subjects, he could assure the House that nothing but an imperative sense of duty compelled him to offer himself to the notice of the House, a portion of whose liberal indulgence he hoped to share—such as they were wont to bestow on those who, like himself, laboured under the disadvantage of addressing them for the first time. He was much tempted on the night when the right hon. Baronet propounded his measures to the House to have offered his sentiments on the subject; but he was restrained from so doing, partly because it appeared to him that the merits of the subject should not be entered into, but principally because he was desirous of removing from
 575 576 577 578 579 "Argument for free trade in corn will be urged on the ground that, whatever necessity there may be for purposes of revenue to continue duties on less important commodities, articles of subsistence are the last that should be taxed. Granted. Give the cultivator fair play. Exempt him from taxation, and he will readily meet the world in his own field of industry. The bounty of Providence, the principle of fertility, will always ensure an ample profit to his industry and skill. But the question before the country is not whether articles of subsistence ought to be taxed. They are taxed, and that to an enormous amount. The question is, whether this taxation shall bear entirely on the producer, or whether it shall be partly distributed among the consumers, by the operation of the present system of Corn Law? The price of every other article comprises not only the cost of production, and a profit on that cost, but also whatever tax or duty may have been imposed on it by the State. Why should the produce of land be an exception to this rule? The answer will be that, so long as the producer obtains a price sufficient to give him a profit, he is not prejudiced by the alleged taxation—he may fairly bear it; and the weight cannot justly be transferred to the consumer, especially with respect to an article which is the first necessary of life, and the price of which so materially affects the poorest classes. Land, however highly taxed, yields this profit, as is proved by the existence of a further surplus—namely, rent. A Corn Law, therefore, makes the consumer pay the landlord's rent; and the whole question
 580 581
 SIR G. CLERK , in reply, stated, that the attention of Her Majesty's Government had been directed to this subject, and inquiries had been instituted as to the nature and extent of the fever reported to prevail at Boa Vista after the visit of the Eclair. Dr. M'William had proceeded to the spot with the view of taking such precautions as might be thought necessary to prevent any extension of the evil, and to ascertain whether any additional assistance was required. If the fever continued to prevail, of course such other steps would be taken as were requisite to check the evil.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  added, that the Act gave ample discretion to the Secretary of State to act upon the reports of the factory inspectors. He did not think that the number of children in a school ought to form the rule, but the wants of the school. The inspectors would be guided by the merits of the schools, and would report on their wants, and the sum granted in each particular case would be with reference to the wants of each school.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that the subject to which the hon. Gentleman had referred had not been neglected either by the present or by the late Government. Until the year 1838, there had been no institution in this country for the punishment of juvenile offenders, except the hulks in the Medway, on board of which there had been 320 boys. Experience, however, had proved that that discipline, so far from reforming the culprits, had been highly injurious to their morals; and the noble Lord the Member for the city of London (Lord J. Russell), had, in the year 1838, with the sanction of the House, founded the institution at Parkhurst, which had produced the most favourable results. When he had succeeded to the Home Office, in the year 1841, there were only about 280 juvenile offenders at Parkhurst. There were now 660 juvenile offenders there, who were subject to a discipline of a reforming character, and as good, he believed, as it was possible to devise. There were, in addition, 200 juvenile convicts in Millbank; so that at the present moment there were nearly 900 juvenile delinquents subject to a reforming discipline. If it should be the pleasure of the House to sanction the proposal of the Government, and to throw upon the public the charge of carrying into execution the sentences on offenders convicted by juries, he would endeavour to induce the magistrates in the various counties of England, to appropriate portions of prisons and of houses of correction for the special punishment of
 548
 SIR J. GRAHAM  replied, that it was no doubt the intention of the Act that the money should be distributed equally and without favour. His instructions to the factory inspectors had been direct and positive, that the spirit of the Act should be carried into execution, and that sums should be apportioned with reference to the wants of the schools and to nothing else. In justice to Mr. Horner, he must add that he believed he was himself a Member of the British and Foreign School Society, so that Mr. Horner's prejudices, if any, would be in their favour. He believed Mr. Horner had acted with great impartiality; and he (Sir James Graham) would read to the House the statement he had himself made on this very matter. He said—
 "It may appear from this list that in my recommendations I give a preference to National schools. This is not the case. I have been surprised that I have not had applications for aid from other public day schools. The above recommendations in favour of the British and Moravian schools were voluntary offers on my part, and I have recently recommended grants to three British schools. I made inquiry about a Roman Catholic school, to ascertain if it needed assistance, but I learned that it was not attended by one factory child."
 SIR J. WALSH  observed, that the Members for agricultural counties must naturally be desirous of addressing the House on this subject: they had every motive which could urge them to do so, and they had every claim which justice could give them upon the patient and forbearing attention of the House. It must be allowed that they were the representatives of a great and important interest. It must, too, be admitted that they are the organs of wide-spread opinions; and if those opinions had lost some of their weight in the minds of the right hon. Baronet and his colleagues, they were still the opinions of a large and influential portion of the community. They were further entitled to a hearing, because, on the present occasion, they appeared to defend themselves from charges and imputations of a personal character, which had been recklessly and unjustifiably levelled at them, through the length and breadth of the land, and that, too, by hon. Gentlemen who had hitherto refrained from taking part in this discussion. Those who had so studiously preserved a stubborn silence, as to excite a remark the other evening, had held up the landed proprietors, in all parts of the country, as the corrupt and sordid advocates of an odious and selfish monopoly. They had been represented by those hon. Gentlemen as actuated by no other motive, and impelled by no other aim, than that of maintaining and upholding their rents as landlords, in opposition to the best interests of the great masses of the community. They had, moreover, to present themselves to the House, on that occasion, under the great disadvantage of being deprived of those upon whose assistance they had hitherto calculated, and under whose leadership they had hitherto marched. They certainly had, by the sudden change of the right hon. Baronet, lost the most powerful advocate of their cause, and upon whom on former occasions they were accustomed entirely to rely. The right hon. Baronet had accompanied this measure with others that were termed measures of compensation. He had forgotten, however, in the enumeration, to allude to one, which appeared to him (Sir J. Walsh) of far more importance than any he had stated. It was this—that by his policy he had imposed upon the agricultural Members the duty, and taught them the lesson of self-reliance. Hereafter they must be prepared to fight
 582 l. l. l. l. 583 584 l. 585 l. l. l. s., s. s., 586 587 588 589 l. 590 s. s. s. s. 591 592
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that nine gentlemen in succession had risen on the same side of the House, and almost in the same quarter of it; and notwithstanding the kindliness of his noble Friend's nature (Lord J. Russell) who had just sat down, he probably felt some pleasure at seeing them firing into each other's vessels, with an occasional broadside into their Admiral. Till the noble Lord rose, he could not help asking himself, what had become of all the Members on the opposite side? Where was the wild Quixotism of the hon. Member for Durham (Mr. Bright); the erratic chivalry of the hon. Member for Stockport (Mr. Cobden); and the calmer gallantry of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. Villiers)? He was, perhaps, reclining under his laurels; but why was it, he asked, that it had been left exclusively to hon. Members sitting on that side of the House, to take so prominent a part in the present debate? His noble Friend had at length come to the rescue. He hoped that he should not be tempted, in the course of the few observations he should make, to say anything unkind, or provoke any angry feeling in a debate which, up to the present time, had been conducted with a singular disregard of all party or personal acrimony; but yet he could not help repeating that he thought his noble Friend must have felt some pleasure when he found a party so divided against itself. The noble Lord began by announcing three distinct propositions, on which he said all political economists were agreed; the noble Lord did no more than merely enunciate them—he trusted to the ready faith of the House in receiving them on his authority—he did not attempt, in his speech, to prove them—he left them to stand on their own intrinsic merit and truth: they were not, he repeated, enforced by any argument of the noble Lord. The noble Lord, also, referred to the statement made in the able, eloquent, and temperate speech of his hon. Friend the Member for Hampshire (Sir W. Heathcote). The noble Lord referred to that speech indeed, but did not attempt to controvert it. He alluded to
 613 614 Scotsman, 615 l., l. 616 s. l. s., l. Hansard, Habemus confitentes reos. 617 618 a pause Laughter 619 Quieta non movere
 SIR R. INGLIS  meant no want of courtesy to the right hon. Baronet when he requested him to state more fully whether the House was to understand that he wished that equal or proportionate sums should be given to schools? He (Sir R. Inglis) had gathered that the right hon. Baronet had desired that equal sums should be given; but he could not help thinking that the meaning of the Act was that proportionate sums should be given. The same amount ought not to be granted to a school of fifty as to a school of a hundred children, whether they were of the Church of England foundation, or of the British and Foreign Society.
 SIR R. PEEL : Of course, there will be an interval between the first and second reading of the Bill; but I do not preclude myself from going on with the consideration of the other portions of the Tariff during that interval. What I mean to say is, that as far as the Government business is concerned, the Corn Bill shall occupy the attention of the House in the first instance until finally disposed of.
 SIR R. PEEL : I am anxious to take the first opportunity of referring to a question which was put to me the other night by the noble Lord the Member for the city of London. The noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), following his Colleague (Mr. Pattison), asked me whether it was the intention of the Government to remit the duties on foreign corn immediately after the Resolution of this House should be reported? That question, Sir, was put to me at once by the noble Lord without previous notice; and, under the impression that the Treasury had dealt with the duties on corn in the same way as other duties, I answered the noble Lord, that the Treasury would remit the duties on foreign corn on the report of the Resolution in this House. I gave that answer under the impression, as I have said, that the Treasury had dealt with the duties on corn as with other duties. I find that impression is erroneous. In every case when the corn duties have been dealt with by Parliament, the reduction of duty has taken place from the passing of the Act; and the Treasury has never in any case, on the report of the Resolution, undertaken to remit the duties. I should be exceedingly unwilling to assume, on the part of the Treasury, any authority for which there was not a precedent. I should be also exceedingly sorry to assume it in this case, because I fear that the assumption of that authority, for the first time, would have a tendency rather to prejudice than promote a satisfactory settlement of this question. It is the intention of the Government, therefore, to adhere to the course which has been uniformly pursued in all former periods of alteration in the Corn Laws, and make the reduction of duty, if the measure should meet with the sanction of Parliament, take effect from the passing of the Act. I believe there will be no inconvenience or delay as to the taking of corn out of bond at the duty of 4 s. 549
 SIR W. HEATHCOTE : Sir, in asking permission to second the Amendment which has just been moved by my hon. Friend the Member for Bristol, I trust I shall be allowed to approach the subject under discussion without allusion to any topics of an exciting character. I wish to avoid such topics at all times, but more particularly now, when there are not wanting many persons to style the authorship of the proposed measures an act of political dishonesty. I ask the House, and I ask my right hon. Friend, to believe I disclaim the use of such weapons. It is true that I think the project visionary and illusory; that I think the right hon. Baronet has based its present necessity on grounds insufficient when taken separately, and inconsistent and destructive of each other when combined; and moreover, that in his anxiety to produce great, and, he supposes, valuable results, he has overlooked the evil of disturbing a settlement which appeared to be fixed, upon the good faith—at least on the deliberate opinion—of the present House of Commons, led by himself; and that he has not sufficiently appreciated the shock to which confidence in public men is exposed when their course of action is suddenly changed, with no apparent change of circumstances, in matters concerning which the public mind has long been exercised, and opinions have been unequivocally expressed. But to suppose that the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government pretended, at any former period, to entertain a conviction he did not feel, or that he has now any other view but to promote what he deems the best interests of his country, appears to me to be a gratuitous assumption, of which I cannot avail myself. I must give to the supporters of the Government measure all the advantage which is implied in conceding to them the integrity and good intentions of its propounder; but I must oppose that measure as being mischievous in itself, and without justification in reason, or from experience.
 560 561 562 563
 VISCOUNT SANDON  felt himself called upon to explain and vindicate the course which he was about to take with reference to the question then before the House. He was in a position different from that of any Member who had yet spoken. He disapproved of the measure proposed, and yet he intended to support it by his vote. He could not honestly say that he was convinced by the arguments and facts which had convinced the right hon. Baronet, and induced him to give up his former opinions. The basis of induction seemed to him too narrow for so broad a superstructure. The facts themselves were not very conclusive: they were, many of them, to be explained by special causes peculiar to themselves, independent of general principles; and whatever they were, he could not think that, if all the  à priori 597 598 l., 599 600 un fait accompli, 601 s. s. s. s. s.,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that on reference to an Act of Parliament, passed three years since, the right hon. Baronet opposite would observe that a sum of money amounting to 300,000 l. l. l. l., 639
 ADMIRAL DUNDAS  wished to know what were the intentions of Her Majesty's Government with respect to the Merchant Seamen's Fund; and he also wished to ask whether, in their opinion, it was not desirable that a more satisfactory arrangement should be adopted with regard to lighthouses on the coast?
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he had very good authority for stating that the documents to which the hon. Gentleman the Member for Bolton had referred, were very inaccurate. He believed they might be justly characterized as dull romances. He wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the Vice President of the Board of Trade on what authority the statements in those documents rested?
 MR. A. STAFFORD O'BRIEN  said, that his noble Friend the Member for Plymouth (Viscount Ebrington) had just presented some petitions which brought to his recollection a part of the speech delivered last night by the noble Lord the Member for London. His noble Friend had presented petitions praying that the repeal of the Corn Laws might be immediate. The noble Lord had stated last night that it had been the custom of Her Majesty's Ministers not to make up their minds as to the details of their measures before consulting those interests which might be chiefly af-
 643 644 645 646 647 648 649 s. s. 650 651 652 General laughter 653 654 655 656 657
 MR. H. J. BAILLIE  said, it was undoubtedly to be lamented that this question, in which the interests of the people were so deeply involved, should have been made the war-cry of a party; that such industrious efforts should have been made to excite popular feeling upon the subject, so that they could scarcely now approach the discussion without that acrimony and bitterness so inseparable from party feeling, and which was little calculated to lead them to a sound and dispassionate judgment upon one of the most difficult questions of political economy. If it were true, however, that upon the success and prosperity of the agriculture of this country the prosperity of all the other great branches of our national industry depended, we must all have an equal interest in arriving at a sound and satisfactory decision upon the subject. It seemed to be now generally assumed as an axiom, that free trade must, under any circumstances, prove beneficial to a nation: undoubtedly we had never been able to convince foreign nations of this truth, or to induce them to adopt the proposition. Foreign nations are well aware that Eng-
 662 663 664 s. s. s., s. 665 666 667
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  said, that he rose under circumstances of very great and grave embarrassment, because he felt it to be his duty to oppose the course of those with whom he had generally acted. He must at the outset declare that he considered the question before them was one on which every one had a perfect right to change his opinion; and he would moreover say this, that he was sure that in the present course that was adopted by the right hon. Baronet he was actuated by the purest and most conscientious motives; but, at the same time, he must be allowed to say, that if the right hon. Gentleman had entertained these opinions in 1841, he did believe that though under such circumstances the right hon. Gentleman might have proposed the same measures which he now submitted to the House, with all the authority that his great talents gave him, still he would not have had the opportunity of proposing them with all the authority and influence of the Crown. Now, however, the right hon. Baronet felt it to be his duty to press these measures upon the House. He regretted that the right hon. Gentleman had done so; and he regretted it the more because, as far as they knew the opinions of the people of this country, their feelings and their wishes were against these measures. Measures were proposed to them, and they were called upon to meet the arguments by which such measures were supported. There was some difficulty in doing so, because they would find the propositions before the House sustained by the most contradictory arguments. The arguments themselves were as various as the persons to whom they were addressed; and there was some difficulty in knowing which argument should be encountered, and which fallacy first exposed. There was one argument which had lately prevailed very much, and seemed to have produced considerable effect throughout the country, and it was one which, if true in every respect, would, he admitted, have considerable effect upon himself. It was this: that if the Corn Laws were repealed the labourer could buy bread cheaper than he did at present. Now, this he did say, that if it were true that under such circumstances the labourer could get his bread and his subsistence cheaper, the Corn Laws could not be maintained. He thought, however, that this was not the question which a statesman should ask. The proper ques-
 677 678 l., 679 l. l. 680
 LORD BROOKE  said, that, in rising to address a few words to the House upon this question, he might be permitted to ask for, and hope to obtain, that indulgence which the House was always ready to concede to any Member who addressed it for the first time. Still he could not but feel great diffidence in offering his own opinion in opposition to that of men so vastly his superiors in talent and in experience. He had formed, however, an honest and unbiassed opinion, which, as the Representative of a great and important constituency, he trusted, might have some weight in the House. He did not rise for the purpose of entering deeply into this great question: he would glance only at the general features of the discussion, and would briefly state the reasons which had influenced his vote upon the present occasion, and he would therefore pass over the details referred to by the hon. Member for Dublin. He confessed that he felt great regret, on entering Parliament, to find himself compelled to vote contrary to the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Ministers. Nothing would have given him greater satisfaction and pleasure than to have tendered to that right hon. Baronet his hearty support; but the change which had taken place in the right hon. Gentleman's opinion—and an honest change, he admitted it to be—would not permit him to follow the right hon. Gentleman in the course now adopted. Although he was willing to give credit to the right hon. Baronet, as well as to those who supported him, yet he felt that many of those supporters could not lay claim to the same straightforward course of action which he was willing to concede to the right hon. Baronet himself. The right hon. Baronet had been for some few years changing his principles; but he had taken care to keep from the House and from his own party a knowledge of that change. Those, however, who had followed him in this course had altered most suddenly, he might almost say miraculously; and the House might have been at a loss to account for that change, had they not heard the speech last night of the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool. There, indeed, they could find the reasons which had induced the right hon. Baronet's party to support him. They found that his supporters did not approve of the measure now before Parliament; but they feared they should lose his great
 697 698 699
 VISCOUNT CLIVE  said, that he was of opinion that, whatever might be the abstract merits of the proposition before the House, it was one which ought not to pass without an appeal to the country. When he first entered Parliament, the present Corn Law was in full operation; and though he was returned free and unfettered and unpledged, yet he considered that there was an honourable understanding between him and the constituency with respect to certain measures. There were certain limits and landmarks by which he thought they were to guide their course. He confessed he did not anticipate the change which had taken place in the opinions of Her Majesty's Government. In 1841, the constituencies were the jury who tried the issue which was left to them, and the present Parliament was returned by their verdict, and now they were going to upset their decision without even asking for a new trial. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War stated in his speech, in which he so fully and successfully vindicated the course which he felt it his duty to pursue, his full conviction that if it were shown to the gentry of the agricultural districts in England that by the abolition of the Corn Laws and by surrendering protection, they would administer to the necessities and wants of their fellow countrymen, they would cheerfully and wil-
 726 'Nusquam tuta fides.'"
 LORD WORSLEY  could assure the no-
 700 s. "He thought the practical agriculturists of this country were not to be frightened from their propriety by alarms founded upon delusion and fear. Fear, he must say, was scarcely creditable to those who had the means of looking into this question, and who knew that with our spirit, skill, and capital, no country could compete with us." 701 "Could you prove to us that the true principles of mercantile dealing required us to purchase corn in the cheapest market, and to withdraw the capital which has fertilised the inferior soils of this country, for the purpose of applying it to the rich but unprofitable wastes of Poland—still we should hesitate. We should remember with pain the cheerful smiling prospects which were thus to be obscured. We should view with regret cultivation receding from the hill top, which it has climbed under the influence of protection, and from which it surveys with joy the progress of successful toil. If you convinced us that your most sanguine hopes would he realized—that this country would become the workshop of the world—would blight, through the cheapness of food, and the demand for foreign corn, the manufacturing industry of every other country—would present the dull succession of enormous manufacturing towns connected by railways, intersecting the abandoned tracts which it was no longer profitable to cultivate; we should not forget, amid all these resages of complete happiness, that it has been under the influence of protection to agriculture, continued for two hundred years, that the fen has been drained, the wild heath reclaimed, the health of a whole people improved, their life prolonged, and all this not at the expense of manufacturing prosperity, but concurrently with its wonderful advancement. If you had called on us to abandon this protection with all the authority of an united Administration, with the exhibition of superior sagacity and triumphant reasoning, we should have been deaf to your appeal; but when, inviting us to follow you, you present nothing but distracted Councils, conflicting Colleagues, statements of facts not to be reconciled, and arguments leading to opposite conclusions, then we peremptorily refuse to surrender our judgments to your guidance, and to throw the protection secured to agriculture by the existing law into the lottery of legislation, in the faint hope that we might by chance draw the prize of a better Corn Bill." 702 "Oh! let the House well reflect before they took any step which directly or indirectly tended to these displacements of labour. Little did they know the suffering and the sorrow which lay hid beneath these quietly flowing waters. Little could they estimate the wretchedness which sprang from change of habit, of house, of manners, of the mode of life itself. What change more cruel could despotism itself inflict than a change from 'the breezy call of incense-breathing morn' to a painful and grievous obedience to the sad sound of the factory bell—the relinquishment of the thatched cottage, the blooming garden, and the village green, for the foul garret, or the dark cellar of the crowded city—the enjoyment of the rural walk of the innocent rustic Sabbath, for the debauchery, the temptations, the pestilence, the sorrows, and the sins of a congregated multitude? Where were their moralists, that their voices were not raised against the fearful consequences which the proposed change brought in its train? Talk to him of sending the Poles to Siberia, or the Hill Coolies from the Coromandel to the Mauritius; the authors of the intended change contemplated the perpetration, within the limits of their native land, of a cruelty far more atrocious. It was the first step towards making England, the workshop of the world, dependent for its daily food upon continental supplies. He hoped that the proposition would not be successful. Were it to succeed, he should say, with his Friend Lord Ashburton, that this was the last country which he should wish to inhabit. The evil itself was of the most fearful character; but the next worse thing to its actual infliction, was the apprehension of its advent—the fear of the change was almost as distressing as the actual change itself; he, therefore, could not hesitate to give his cordial and decided opposition to the Motion." The reading of this passage produced continued cheers and great laughter throughout. 703 704 "The hon. and learned Gentleman would find it easy, it seems, to apply the great principle of free trade to this question; but I am compelled to look to the weighty interests that have grown up under the system of restriction. You the hon. and learned Member give me an estimate of the corn grown in this country; you tell me of 22,000,000 quarters of wheat, and in all 45,000,000 quarters of grain. Now, think of the amount of capital engaged in the production of that enormous quantity of 45,000,000 quarters of grain. Think what pecuniary interests must be involved in the production of sueh an amount of grain. Think, too, of the amount of social interests, connected with those pecuniary interests, which are also involved; how many families are depending for their subsistence and their comforts upon the means of giving employment to thousands, before you hastily disturb the laws whieh determine the application of capital. All these considerations you may disregard or overlook in your haste to apply the principles of free trade; but let me tell you, if you do so, you are the real enemies of the application of those principles. If
 705 706 "He had no doubt, as was alleged by some, that free trade in corn would benefit both the revenue and consnmer. If they put corn on the same footing as tobacco—if they discouraged or prohibited its culture in England, the consumer would benefit greatly, and so would the revenue. But what in that case would become of the agriculturists? Were they prepared to sacrifice one-third of the population—he was taking Mr. Babbage's calculation—to the other two-thirds? Such might be the scheme of a Minister of a party; such ought scheme of a not to be the Minister of a nation; such was not the plan of the right hon. Baronet." 707 s. "But he did fervently trust and believe that the House, indicating and adhering to its wise and practical character, would adopt, and by a large majority, the measures which had been recommended by the Government as a great practical improvement, as a change considerable and beneficial to the entire community, while maintaining that great principle which the House was pledged to maintain, a reasonable protection to the
 708 "If the people are united, prohibition, or prohibitory duties, will share the fate of civil disabilities on religious grounds, the slavery of our negro fellow subjects, and other works of darkness. Nor is it necessary for this purpose that the late Ministry should be restored to power—the men who surrendered what they deemed the essential bulwarks of the Church and the Constitution to the menaces of the Roman Catholic Association of Ireland, will be sure to yield the fortresses of commercial restriction when they shall be summoned to do so, by the peaceful but powerful voice of the people of England and Scotland." 709 710
 MR. LEFROY , after referring to the advocacy of the measure by the hon. Member for Rochdale (Mr. S. Crawford), on the ground of the benefit it would confer upon Ireland, said, he was anxious to ask that hon. Gentleman in what way the support of such a measure would improve the condition of the lower orders in that country, or raise the circumstances of the Irish landlords? For his own part, though he was grateful to the Government for some measures which they had adopted in reference to that country, yet he could not give them his support in reference to the measure before the House. And he would state why he was opposed to this project of the Ministry, and particularly as he considered that it became every county Member from that part of the Empire to state his reasons for opposing this measure, and not to let it go forth that he was led to do so under any influence of private feelings. He did feel, then, that at this moment, when all the greater statesmen in that House had but one opinion upon the subject, and when those who were of equal weight, but not of equal official consequence, were compelled by the force of circumstances, and though opposed to the measure, to vote in favour of it—when men like the noble Lord the late Member for Dorsetshire (Lord Ashley), had rather relinquish their seat in that House than vote against the measure—under all these important circumstances, he did still feel that it was utterly impossible for him to vote in support of the proposal of the Government. It was time, indeed, for every man to put to himself the question—was it for the advantage of this country
 668 669
 MR. AGLIONBY  had great respect for the talent and industry of the Gentleman who had framed the documents in question; and he thought it was rather hard that he should be attacked for an alleged inaccuracy in one document. If there was any complaint of the information furnished, the best plan would be to appoint a Committee to whom the subject would be referred, and who would report to the House.
 641
 SIR H. W. BARRON  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer the questions of which he had given notice—namely, what amount of funds there were now available in Ireland for the purpose of lending with interest sums towards the carrying on of public works in that country? Also, whether it were intended to propose or sanction any measure by which the Ecclesiastical Commissioners in Ireland would be empowered to sell any portion of their estates, and thereby pay off the 60,000 l.
 DR. BOWRING  seconded the Motion. He wished to bear his testimony to the great value of those tariffs of foreign countries which had just been laid before the House. They had been prepared by Mr. Macgregor, and he felt that they did great honour to his knowledge, his zeal, and his industry.
 MR. HUME  moved—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, that She will be pleased to direct that there be laid before this House, Copies of the existing Tariffs and Commercial Regulations of each of the British Colonies and Possessions in the same manner as the Tariffs and Commercial Regulations of Europe and America have been laid before the House." "That there be laid before this House Copies of the existing Tariffs and Commercial Regulations of British India and the Dependencies thereof, on Exports and Imports, in the same manner as those laid before the House of the European and American States." 640
 MR. HUME  wished to state, in reference to a suggestion made by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Devonport (Sir G. Grey), that a Committee of that House, which had sat ten years ago, and of which he had been chairman, had recommended that returns should be published in a tabular form; but folio volumes were those best fitted for that form. He thought, however,
 642
 MR. HUME  begged to state, in answer to the noble Lord who had called those returns "dull romances," that he should be glad to hear the noble Lord point out any romance which could be considered equally useful to the country, He should be extremely sorry to find it go out among the public that there was anything in the returns which could not be proved by official documents. If the noble Lord thought that they contained any errors, let him move for a Committee by whom the subject could be fully investigated. He had reason to know that great trouble had been taken by Mr. Macgregor in preparing the returns, and he thought it was extremely unfair to call them "dull romances."
 MR. EWART  wished to put a question to the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General, or to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department. He begged leave to remind the hon. and learned Gentleman that he had last year brought in a Bill for giving a right of appeal in criminal cases. It had always appeared to him (Mr. Ewart) that such a Bill was very much required; and he wished to know from the hon. and learned Gentleman, or from the right hon. Baronet, whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to remedy the existing defect in our criminal law?
 MR. GREGORY  would give his support to the measure of the right hon. Baronet, which a very remarkable expression uttered some time previously by one high in authority had convinced him could not long be delayed. In the year 1843, it was asserted on the bench below him, that the principles of free trade were the principles of common sense. At that assertion, which conveyed to him a deep import, some hon. Gentlemen had shaken their hands, while others believed that the right hon. Secretary's words were to be taken in the words of Oxford theologians, in a non-natural sense. Common sense, however, appeared to him an ingredient that entered so largely into the reasoning of all the affairs of life, so mixed up and bound up with our slightest actions, as well as with our loftiest duties, so inseparable from what was just and right, that it became to him a subject of deep consideration, what could those causes be that prevented the principles of common sense from being fully carried out; and the more he examined the reasonings on either side of the question, the more satisfied and convinced was he that the right hon. Secretary was right in his assertion, and that those principles of free trade were, like common sense, no principle in the abstract, but principles which might and should be made applicable to immediate circumstances. Impressed with this conviction, he considered it his duty to vote with the hon. Member for Gateshead (Mr. Hutt) in his Motion for the free importation of Australian corn; a Motion which had for its object the free importation of grain from all British dominions, and which would certainly have opened the door to a freer trade in corn. He regretted the Bill did not originally pass the same year as the Canada Corn Bill, as, in addition to its being a concession to our colonists (not a very important one, it was true), the right hon. Baronet might have quoted the effects of the measure along with the other calculations he employed to quiet the apprehensions of the agriculturists. He certainly did not conceive in those days that a free trade in corn was so near, and conceived that a small fixed duty, for the sake of revenue if not of protection, would have been the transition state, a proposition to which he would have lent a willing concurrence, being a believer that corn, as well as other articles of consumption, should be subject
 681 682 683 prorsus nil? 684 s. d.; s. d.; s.; s.; s.; s. d. 
 
 s. d. s. d. 
 1838 64 7 1842 57 3 half year. 
 1839 70 8 1843 50 1 
 1840 66 4 1844 51 4 
 1841 64 4 1845 52 0 
 1842 60 2 half year. 
 
 Year. s. d. Quarters. 
 1839 wheat at 70 8 3,174,680 
 1842 wheat at 57 3 4,091,234 
 1845 wheat at 52 0 6,470,469 685 686 687 688 s. d. s. d. 
 
 Places. Price of Oats per quarter. Freight per quarter. 
 s. s. s. d. s. d. 
 Hamburgh 11 to 16 2 6 to 5 0 
 Elsinore 12 to 15 3 6 to 5 0 
 Dantzic 12 3 6 to 4 0 
 St. Petersburgh 12 to 5 4 5 to 5 0 s. s. s. s. s. 689 s. s. d. 690 "The new Tariff is responsible for the addition of 3,000 head to the supply (this was published in March, 1845), but commercial distress, affecting, perhaps, immediately 4,000,000 or 5,000,000 of people, nearly all of whom were consumers of animal food, is responsible for not extending the demand to an amount nearer 300,000 head than 3,000." s. s. s. 691 l. s. s. d. s. 
 
 Years. Butter & Cheese. Value. 
 Cwt. £ 
 1841 55,000 223,000 
 1842 61,000 229,000 
 1843 71,000 253,000 692 693 à priori à priori à priori à priori 694 "Throughout all Troy I see no friendly eye, "And Trojans shudder as they pass me by!" 695 696
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  opposed the Amendment. He did not see how the agriculturists could raise the price of food unless they also raised the rate of wages. It was inhumanity to the poor if the one were done and not the other. By the old Poor Law, wages were raised so as to be in proportion to the price of food. Now, the election of 1841 turned on two points—first, the principle of protection; and, secondly, the restoration of the old Poor Law. The attempt had been made to keep up the prices of food; but had the other pledge been fulfilled? He was not a particular friend to the system of the old Poor Law; but if the one pledge had been carried out, it was the duty of the party which entered Parliament for the double purpose he had described to carry out the other, and declare their intention to do so. But he wished more particularly to touch on the question as it affected Ireland. He differed from the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, as well as from the majority of Irish landlords. Instead of wishing protective duties on corn for the sake of Ireland, he thought dear corn and dear food the greatest curse that could be inflicted upon that country. It had been said, England was prosperous, why meddle with this law? But when applied to Ireland, the argument fell to the ground. Ireland had long enjoyed protection—had it promoted her prosperity? On the contrary, the greatest wretchedness prevailed; and, referring to landlords, tenants, and labourers alike, he would ask whether any of them had benefited from the system of protection? The Report of the Landlords and Tenants Commission, and also a recent Report of the Irish Poor Law Commissioners, showed that the agricultural population, or cottiers, were badly clothed, badly fed, and subjected to the most severe privations, their only food in many districts being potatoes, their only drink water, while a bed or a blanket was a rare luxury. The Report of the Land Commissioners also bore testimony to the misery of the tenants. In that report reference was made to subletting and middlemen. It was stated that the war with France had greatly raised farming profits, and consequently rents. Many middlemen, who during the long war had amassed much wealth, had become proprietors in fee; others, who had not been so successful, struggled in after years to maintain a position in society
 658 s. d. s. d. l.; l. l. "A reference to the evidence of most of the witnesses will show that the agricultural labourer of Ireland continues to suffer the greatest privations and hardships; that he continues to depend upon casual and precarious employment for subsistence; that he is still badly housed, badly fed, badly clothed, and badly paid for his labour. The labouring classes live under sufferings greater, we believe, than the people of any other conntry in Europe have to sustain." "We noticed, with deep regret, the state of the cottiers and labourers in most parts of the country, from the want of certain employment. It would be impossible to describe adequately the privations which they and their families habitually endure. It will be seen in evidence, that in many districts their only food is the potato—their only beverage, water; that their cabins are seldom a protection against the weather; that a bed or a blanket is a rare luxury; and that, nearly in all, their pig and their manure-heap constitute their only property." 659 "A great portion of them are insufficiently provided with the commonest necessaries of life. Their habitations are wretched hovels. Several of the family sleep together upon straw, or upon the bare ground, sometimes with a blanket, sometimes without so much to cover them. Their food commonly consists of dry potatoes; and even with these they are obliged often to stint themselves to one spare meal in the day. There are even instances of persons being driven by hunger to seek sustenance in wild herbs." 660 661
 SIR G. CLERK  said, in answer to the first question of the gallant Admiral, that he had stated on a former occasion that he had been in communication with several members of the Shipowners' Society, with a view to make further arrangements in regard to the Merchant Seamen's Fund; and he should certainly give to any recommendation from that society the best consideration in his power. With regard to the second question, which appeared to him to relate to a subject of great importance, he believed that that subject was under the consideration of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 SIR G. CLERK  said, that the tables had been taken from consular returns sent to this country. If the noble Lord could point out any mistake in any of the documents, he (Sir G. Clerk) should be very happy to make inquiry into the subject, and to enter into any explanation he might be able to offer respecting apparent or real errors. He believed that great pains had been taken in preparing the documents.
 SIR G. GREY  said, he wished to throw out a suggestion with respect to the manner in which such documents as those in question were usually printed. They appeared in large and ponderous volumes—in a shape which prevented their circulation throughout the country, and which was extremely inconvenient to the Members of that House. He would suggest to the Members of the Printing Committee, of which the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford was chairman, to take into their consideration whether some mode of printing these documents less expensive than the present, and which would render them more accessible to the public, might not be adopted.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that from what had fallen from him on a former evening, when he had referred to the case of the Brazilian pirates, and the absence of any right of appeal in criminal cases, the House would partly have anticipated that the attention of Her Majesty's Government had been directed to that subject; and he had no hesitation in stating to the hon. Gentleman, on the part of Her Majesty's Government, that it was their intention to introduce a measure for giving a limited right of appeal in criminal cases.
 SIR J. GRAHAM : Sir, in rising to address the House, I beg leave to say that I have not forgotten the powerful speech of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire, nor the advice which he gave—that Her Majesty's Ministers should not allow this question to degenerate into a mere fiscal question. The hon. Member stated, that when a great party was dissolved, or on
 711 Hansard, 712 713 714 "I consider this statement, that the condition of the labourer has been rendered worse by the operation of the Corn Law, a most important one; and I have no hesitation in saying, that unless the existence of the Corn Law can be shown to be consistent, not only with the prosperity of agriculture and the maintenance of the landlord's interest, but also with the maintenance of the general interests of the country, and especially with the improvement of the condition of the labouring class, the Corn Law is practically at an end." "It is decidedly my opinion that the prosperity of agriculture must always depend on the prosperity of the other branches of the native industry of this country, and that the public prosperity is, on the whole, best promoted by giving a fair and uninterrupted current to the natural flow of national industry. I will go further and say, that it is my opinion that, by safe, gradual, and cautious measures, it is expedient to bring our laws, with reference to the trade in corn, into a nearer relation with the sound principles which regulate our commercial policy with respect to every other branch of industry. I will go still further, and say I am not satisfied with the plan, and can be no party to it, of setting up a separate interest for the landlord and the farmer of this country; I believe that their prosperity will, in the main, be found to depend on the wealth, the comfort, and the ease of the great body of the people of this country." 715 s. s. s. d., 716 s. s. 717 718 719 720 s. d., s. d., s. d., s. 721 s. s. s. s. s. s. s. 722 723 Marks of dissent from the agricultural Members. 724 725
 SIR. R. H. INGLIS  said, it was much more convenient that documents such as those referred to should be printed in a tabular form; and folio volumes were much better fitted than octavos for containing documents in that form. With respect to the returns in question, he wished to observe that they had not come under the cognizance of the Printing Committee, for they had been printed under the direction of Her Majesty's Government. It had been said by the noble Lord (Lord Seymour) that the returns were very inaccurate. Now, he had not the good fortune to concur in political opinion with the Gentleman who had framed those returns, but he thought that it would be fair to that Gentleman that a Committee should be appointed who would inquire into the alleged inaccuracies in those documents.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  objected to the power now possessed by a single proprietor possessing half the land of the district to be drained, who, if he chose to hold out against the rest of the proprietors, might prevent the Act from coming into operation. Supposing there was a tract of land of 2,000 acres in extent to be drained, and one individual landowner possessed 1,000 acres; there might be ten individuals, owning 100 acres each, who were unanimous in wishing the work to be done, but this single proprietor had the power of preventing the drainage of an entire dis-
 727 "In cases where there was but a single dissentient, and the rest of the landowners were unanimous, the Bill should nevertheless take effect."
 VISCOUNT CLEMENTS  said, it had been alleged that the proposed measure would be most injurious to the landlords of Ireland; he had not the least objection, as an Irish county Member, to meet that assertion; he trusted he should not for so doing be considered less the farmer's friend than any hon. Gentleman opposite. For the last six years he had earnestly endeavoured to improve the agriculture of his neighbourhood, and he had made himself intimately acquainted with the wants and condition of the farmers and the labouring classes of the county he had the honour to represent. He must own that some of the arguments of the hon. Member for North Northamptonshire had a little startled him: he had heard him state that ruin to agriculture would not only be the consequence
 670
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  presented several petitions from places in Devonshire, praying for an immediate repeal of the Corn Laws.
 MR. S. O'BRIEN  said, that as he was the individual to whom the Chancellor of the Exchequer had referred, he begged to say that his remarks last night related entirely to Ireland, and if he had extended them to England he should have been conceding what he deemed an important part of his argument. He begged to add, that it was to the protective system that they owed the fact that they had hitherto been independent of the supplies from foreign countries. He believed that this was the kingdom in Europe best protected against the horrors of famine. The right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had referred to the fact of the noble Lord the Member for Lynn sitting next him, as if that were any reason for his agreeing with him. He certainly did agree with him; but the right hon. Gentleman's experience during the last few days might have shown him that it was quite possible for Gentlemen to sit next to each other, and yet to totally disagree in reference to commercial policy.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I understood my hon. Friend (Mr. S. O'Brien) to say distinctly that if we had thrown open the ports the measure should have had his approbation.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that so far from wishing to withhold any information upon this important subject, he readily acquiesced in the Motion made for the presentation of those returns. He should have contented himself with merely notifying his assent to the Motion, were it not for some observations which fell from the noble Lord, and with reference to which he thought it necessary to give some explanation. The noble Lord appeared to be greatly alarmed at the immense benefit which individuals who were the holders of bonded corn would receive by the alteration of the law; but his hon. Friend (Mr. S. O'Brien), near the noble Lord, who spoke from the same side of the House on the preceding night, had said that to the opening of the ports, for the admission of corn, he had no objection. Now, if they adopted the suggestion of his hon. Friend, by opening the ports, they would have given to the holders of foreign corn not the difference between 14 s. s., s. s., 739 s. s.,
 COLONEL CONOLLY  differed from the hon. Member opposite with reference to the working of the Poor Law (Ireland) Bill. He believed that the Poor Law was at present working well in Ireland; and he felt bound to state that the prejudices which existed against the measure in that country had been greatly fomented in certain quarters. He believed that, notwithstanding all this agitation upon the subject, the prejudices were fast disappearing. He felt convinced that they did not exist on the part of those for whom the relief was intended. He was himself connected with four boards of guardians, and was enabled, therefore, to form an opinion upon the subject; and his opinion was, that this measure was rapidly approaching that state of perfection which it was intended by the Government it should reach. The matter was now before the other House, and he hoped it would receive their Lordships' best consideration, and that such measures as they considered expedient to adopt would be speedily sent down to this House, and meet with the approbation and support of hon. Members. He was astonished at the facility with which the rates had been collected for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of the Act. He never knew a period when it was so easy to collect the poor rate in Ireland as at present. There was nothing, he conceived, to justify them to calling upon Parliament for an alteration in the law, though there were some points that might be brought before the Committee of the House of Lords; but they were very trifling indeed.
 734 modus operandi
 LORD GEORGE BENTINCK  rose to move for a Return giving the numbers and names of the holders of Foreign Grain now in bond in the Queen's Warehouses in Great Britain and Ireland. He understood there was some technical difficulty about giving the names of the holders; that, in fact, it was not easy to tell who the holders were; and therefore, he had agreed with his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to change the name 'holders' to 'importers,' and there would be no difficulty, he believed, in giving the names of the importers. It would be thus shown that it was a very limited number of persons to whom a boon would be given to the amount of something like half a million sterling by the measure before Parliament for the immediate reduction of the duty on foreign corn, and on wheat especially, to 4 s. 737 s. s., s. s., s. s., l. l. l. l.; 738
 LORD GEORGE BENTINCK  explained, that his argument was that the price of wheat had arrived at that point when it was perfectly compatible with the profits of trade to pay a duty of 14 s. s. s., s. 741 s. d.,
 MR. ESCOTT  hoped the noble Lord was more comfortable after that explanation. He (Mr. Escott) did not presume to dictate to the noble Lord what course he should pursue; but he had thought it not unparliamentary to suggest an alteration in his Motion. The noble Lord had stated that his object was to ascertain who were the individuals who would profit by the measure; and, as he (Mr. Escott) thought that the public would reap the profit, he had thought it a not unimportant addition to the Motion of the noble Lord to have the names of the consumers. With respect to what the noble Lord had said about him and his constituents, he had no objection, if the noble Lord thought it worth while, to discuss that question with him, either there or elsewhere; but, from the specimen which the noble Lord had just given of his information, he must say, that the noble Lord was totally ignorant of the facts of the case.
 MR. ESCOTT  would suggest to the noble Lord that he might make an addition to his Motion, which he thought would help to effect the object he had in view. He said his object was to ascertain what individuals would profit by this measure, and therefore he suggested to the noble Lord to include in the return the number of individuals who were to cat the bread made out of this corn.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  believed that the object of Government, as it was the object of all, was to relieve the particular distress in one portion of Her Majesty's dominions, Ireland—a distress which all equally deplored; for he could answer for the agricultural Members that they were ready to meet that distress by greater sacrifices than had been yet proposed, if it were necessary. But they held that the revenue would be better expended in meeting the particular evils which pressed on one portion of Her Majesty's dominions, than sacrificing it in such a way as to let it go into the general consumption, where it would produce no relative depreciation in the price of grain. They maintained that relief was not needed by the whole community, but that it was required in Ireland, and they would rather see the revenue given to the people than thus sacrificed in the way pointed out by the noble Lord. No one prized more than he did the whole system of bonding corn, but with free trade he should like to know how the bonding system could be carried out. When he heard such an answer as that given by the hon. Member (Mr. Escott), that his noble Friend should ask for a return of the persons who would eat the corn now in bond, he would recommend the hon. Member to undertake so vain a task himself.
 MR. WODEHOUSE  begged to confirm what had fallen from the hon. Member for Warwickshire. He assured the House, that there was no measure either in the way of precaution or relief of any sort or kind with respect to Ireland which they (the protectionists) were not ready to give their assent to. He had expressed this opinion before Parliament met, and he repeated it now; and he therefore thought his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer,
 740
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  believed that the new Commissioner alluded to by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department was a very able gentleman, and one of high respectability; but he objected to the appointment because it was another illustration of a system which had been too long practised in Ireland—the system of giving to Englishmen and Scotchmen the offices which ought to be held by Irishmen. The hon. Gentleman who had preceded him had said that the law was a most unpopular one; and he (Mr. French) believed that it would be impossible to get one more so, for it would not have the effect of relieving any destitution in Ireland, and it was perfectly useless to meet any sudden emergency. The Government had admitted that nearly four millions of the people of Ireland were accustomed to depend upon the potato crop for sustenance. If that crop failed, where were those four millions to obtain relief? Surely not in the workhouses, which could not accommodate more than one hundred
 732 733
 MR. SHAW  urged upon the Government the great importance of resisting, from the first, every attempt to introduce outdoor relief, or anything in the nature of a labour rate, in connexion with the Poor Law in Ireland. The law itself, after having encountered great difficulty and opposition, was only beginning fairly to operate in that country. The workhouses were not yet nearly full, notwithstanding the emergency to which the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) had alluded; but should they become full, and even as the case stood at present, the burden of the poor rate was as heavy as those subjected to it could well bear. As the emergency of the potato failure in Ireland had been referred to, he would no further go into the question at present than to say that, while he deplored the occurrence of any failure, and desired every means to be taken to alleviate such distress as it might occasion, still he was bound to say, that he considered the extent of the failure had been greatly exaggerated. He found fault with the Government for having so long left Ireland without a resident Poor Law Commissioner, although there had been an understanding to that effect at the time of the passing of the Act.
 MR. MOORE O'FERRALL  could not, from what he understood of the Motion of the hon. Member (Mr. S. Crawford), go to the same length as the hon. Member. He believed that if, under the present circumstances, they were to give outdoor relief,
 735 736
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD , in explanation, was understood to say that the assessment would not fall on the small holders, but on the large farmers and on the landlords. He also observed that he did not propose that the right should be given to the poor to seek outdoor relief, but simply that, when it was necessary, such relief might be given under the orders of the Commissioners.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD , in pursuance of notice, called the attention of the Members of the Government to the necessity of "immediately extending the powers of the Irish Poor Law Act, so as to enable the boards of guardians to dispense outdoor relief to persons in destitution, in the event of the poor-houses being filled." He was anxious to bring this matter under the serious and immediate consideration of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department; for in his (Mr. Crawford's) opinion no subject of more vital importance could possibly engage the attention of Her Majesty's Cabinet. The Irish Poor Law differed from the English and Scotch in this respect, that under no circumstances whatever, let the emergency be ever so pressing, could outdoor relief be administered to the destitute. The English Poor Law Act invested the Commissioners with authority to accord outdoor relief under circumstances of peculiar and urgent emergency; and the Commissioners in their general orders had made special provision for the administration of assistance to the poor. For instance, it was specially provided that outdoor relief should be given in cases of sudden and serious necessity, and particularly in the event of the applicants
 728 729
 SIR J. GRAHAM : The subject which has been introduced to the notice of the House by the hon. Gentleman is a matter of far too great importance for incidental discussion. I can assure him the condition of Ireland has for months engaged the most anxious consideration of Her Majesty's Government. I am not one of those who underrate the difficulties that now exist in that country; on the contrary, I do regard the condition of a large portion of the Irish population for the next four or five months, until the new crop of potatoes comes into use, with much anxiety. The difficulty is, I hope, but temporary; and, if the increase of next year be blessed by Providence, I hope the evil, such as it is, may be of a passing nature. I do, however, admit that for the next five months the difficulty will be great, and must be met by provident arrangements. With this view the Government has introduced various measures, all tending to increase the means of employment in Ireland. We have brought forward a Public Works Bill, advancing 50,000 l., l., l. 730
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  observed that the wishes of the right hon. and learned Gentleman had been already anticipated by Government, for a resident Commissioner had just been appointed for Ireland.
 MR. B. DENISON  concurred fully in the utility of the hon. Member for Finsbury's suggestion. As Chairman of many Railway Committees, he could testify to the manner in which this evidence relative to the traffic was got up. In fact, a traffic
 753
 ADMIRAL DUNDAS  wished to call the attention of the Government to a case which had lately excited great interest in the public mind; he referred to the case of Captain Johnstone, who had lately been tried and acquitted. It had been since reported, that it was the intention of Government to send that individual to a Colony. He hoped this report was untrue; for the man ought certainly to have been hanged. He also wished to know whether Government intended to institute any examination into the qualifications of masters of merchant vessels?
 MR. A. STAFFORD O'BRIEN  wished to know whether the Government intended to put a stop to the further circulation of a work, treating of commercial tariffs relating to America, to which the hon. Member for Bolton had referred on Tuesday evening last? He had looked over the latter portion of that book, and had found its inaccuracies so numerous, and, he must say, so disgraceful to the public officer who prepared it, that he hoped the Government would not permit it to be further circulated until these errors had been corrected. The compiler, drawing up a scheme of taxation, such as suited his own views and principles, made a mistake of 1,339,000 l. l., l.
 LORD SEYMOUR  wished to know under what system these volumes were produced. It was of the utmost importance to all, whatever their views, that these returns should be accurate, which, under the present system prevailing at the Board of Trade, was impossible. Under any system it would be difficult to obtain correct statistical information; but it became an impossibility when facts were warped to suit particular views. He wished to have laid on the Table the original Minute under which the statistical department of the Board of Trade was constituted. It would be well if the noble Lord, who presided over that department with so much ability, would give directions to the officers connected with the statistical department to confine themselves to data and the arrangement of facts, instead of dwelling in declamatory language on the tyranny of other Governments, and casting blame on the conduct of all the Sovereigns of Europe.
 MR. A. S. O'BRIEN  said he had been misinterpreted. He had no intention of imputing motives; and if any unintentional expression had fallen from him which would bear such an interpretation, he most heartily begged to retract it. He still maintained, however, that when they paid public servants for the execution of public works, they had a right to expect accuracy.
 VISCOUNT POLLINGTON  apprehended the hon. Member merely meant to say that it was disgraceful that public Papers should be allowed to go forth in such a state.
 MR. H. HINDE  said he was anxious, on the first night of the debate, to have expressed his opinion upon the measures brought forward by the right hon. Baronet. He would now take advantage of the question of adjournment which was before the House to speak on the main question, which he believed was perfectly in order. He had for a number of years enjoyed the honour of a seat in that House—he had represented one of the largest commercial constituencies in the kingdom—he had presented himself on five or six different occasions on the hustings before that constituency, to advocate the case of protection to native industry, not only as connected with agriculture, but with all other classes. He felt himself in this position, that though his constituency was a purely commercial one, his own sole connexion was with the agriculture of the country. In these circumstances he would not have felt himself justified in giving a vote for the continuance of protection to agriculture, if he had not felt the firm conviction that that protection was just, not to the agricultural classes alone, but to all classes of the community. He would in a few words endeavour to confine himself to the commercial view of the question. The question which they had heard repeated,  usque ad nauseam, 829 s. s. 830 831
 MR. S. HERBERT  said, in reference to the first question put to him by the hon. and gallant Member, that the matter was under consideration. Considerable difficulty arose in giving the retirement contended for by the hon. and gallant Member, without encouraging similar claims from other portions of the service. He hoped, however, that some improvement would be introduced, although, perhaps, not to the extent desired by the hon. and gallant Member. With regard to the medals to be distributed amongst those who served in the Chinese war, he had been informed that the dies were made, and that the medals, 17,000 in number, would be completed in three months' time.
 LORD G. SOMERSET  hoped the hon. Member for Finsbury would not for the present press his Amendment, as that very subject to which he referred was at the present moment occupying the most serious attention of the Railway Committee.
 LORD G. SOMERSET , previously to moving the appointment of the Classification Committee on Railways, of which he
 750 
 "1. Resolved—That a Committee of Five Members be appointed, to be called The Classification Committee of Railway Bills, and that Three be the Quorum of such Committee. "2. Resolved—That Copies of all Petitions for Railway Bills presented to the House be laid before the said Committee. "3. Resolved—That the Committee of Classification shall inquire and report what Railway Bills compete with, or ought to be considered in connexion with, any Railway Bills, the promoters of which shall have proved themselves entitled to the privilege agreed to be granted in certain cases by the Resolutions of this House of the 7th July last. "4. Resolved—That the Committee of Classification shall form into Groups all other Railway Bills which, in their opinion, it would be expedient to submit to the same Committee. "5. Resolved—That as soon as the Committee of Classification shall have determined what Railway Bills are to be grouped together, they shall report the same to the House; and all Petitions against any of the said Bills shall be presented to the House three clear days before the meeting of the Committee thereon. "6. Resolved—That no Railway Bill be read a First Time later than the next day but one after the Report of the Committee on Petitions or of the Standing Order Committee on such Bill, as the case may be, shall have been laid on the Table, except by Special Order of the House. "7. Resolved—That there be no more than seven clear days between the First Reading of any Railway Bill and the Second Reading thereof, except by Special Order of the House. "8. Resolved — That the Breviate of every Railway Bill shall be laid on the Table of the House, and be printed and delivered one clear day before the Second Reading. "9. Resolved—That such Railway Bills as shall have been read a First Time before the House shall agree to these Resolutions, shall be read a Second Time within seven clear days thereafter. "10. Resolved—That such of the Standing Orders as relate to the composition of the Committees on Private Bills, and the Orders consequent thereon, be suspended so far as regards Railway Bills pending in the course of the present Session. "11. Resolved—That Committees on Railway Bills during the present Session of Parliament shall be composed of a Chairman and Four Members, to be appointed by the Committee of Selection. "12. Resolved—That each Member of a Committee on a Railway Bill or Bills, shall, before he be entitled to attend and vote on such Committee, sign a declaration that his constituents have no local interest, and that he himself has no personal interest for or against any Bill referred to him; and no such Committee shall proceed to business until the whole of the Members thereof shall have signed such declaration. "13. Resolved—That the promoters of a Railway Bill shall be prepared to go into the Committee on the Bill on such day as the Committee
 751 "14. Resolved—That the Committee of Selection shall give each Member not less than fourteen days' notice of the week in which it will be necessary for him to be in attendance, for the purpose of serving, if required, on a Railway Bill Committee. "15. Resolved—That the Committee of Selection shall give each Member a sufficient notice of his appointment as a Member of a Committee on a Railway Bill, and shall transmit to him a copy of the twelfth Resolution, and a blank form of the Declaration therein required, with a request that he will forthwith return it to them properly filled up and signed. "16. Resolved—That if the Committee of Selection shall not within due time receive from each such Member the aforesaid declaration, or an excuse which they shall deem sufficient, they shall report to the House the name of such defaulting Member. "17. Resolved—That the Committee of Selection shall have the power of substituting, at any time before the first meeting of a Committee, another Member for a Member whom they shall deem it proper to excuse from serving on that Committee. "18. Resolved—That power be given to the Committee of Selection to send for persons, papers, and records, in the execution of the duties imposed on them by the foregoing Resolutions. "19. Resolved—That no Member of a Committee shall absent himself from his duties on such Committee, unless in the case of sickness or by leave of the House. "20. Resolved—That all Questions before Committees on Railway Groups or Bills shall be decided by a majority of voices, including the voice of the Chairman; and that whenever the voices shall be equal, the Chairman shall have a second or casting vote. "21. Resolved—That if the Chairman shall be absent from the Committee, the Member next in rotation on the List who shall be present shall act as Chairman. 22. Resolved—That Committees shall be allowed to proceed so long as three Members shall be present, but not with a less number, unless by special leave of the House. "23. Resolved—That if on any day within one hour after the time appointed for the meeting of a Committee three Members shall not be present, the Committee shall be adjourned to the same hour on the next day on which the House shall sit, which had been fixed for that day. "24. Resolved—That in the case of a Member not being present within one hour after the time appointed for the meeting of the Committee, or of any Member absenting himself from his duties on such Committee, such Member shall be reported to the House at its next sitting. "25. Resolved—That each Committee shall be appointed to meet on each day of its sitting, not later than twelve o'clock, unless by the regular vote of the Committee. "26. Resolved—That Committees on Railway Bills have leave to sit in the present Session, notwithstanding any adjournment of the House, if the Committees shall so think fit. 752 "27. Resolved—That every Committee on a Railway Bill shall fix the tolls, and shall determine the maximum rates of charge for the conveyance of passengers (with a due amount of luggage) and of goods on such Railway; and such rates of charge shall include the tolls, and the costs of locomotive power, and every other expense connected with the conveyance of passengers (with a due amount of luggage), and of goods upon such Railway; but if the Committee shall not deem it expedient to determine such maximum rates of charge, a Special Report, explanatory of the grounds of their omitting so to do, shall be made to the House, which Special Report shall accompany the Report of the Bill."
 CAPTAIN LAYARD  wished to ask the right hon. Secretary at War whether the Government had it in contemplation to make any better regulations for the retirement of staff officers, such as surgeons, quartermasters, veterinary surgeons, and paymasters? He wished also to ask, whether the medal was to be given at once to those engaged in the Chinese war?
 MR. WYKEHAM MARTIN : After the pointed observations which my hon. Friend, who has just sat down, made, both in the commencement and in the close of his speech, with respect to tergiversation, I feel it necessary, as one of those who have hitherto supported protection, both in this House and elsewhere, and who now am about to support Her Majesty's Government, to trouble the House with a few words of explanation. I feel, however, that I have a much smaller amount of explanation to make than most of those who are similarly circumstanced, because it has been as a temporary system, and not as a permanent one, that I have supported it. It has always been my opinion that a time would come, when, by a gradual subsidence of prices here, and by a rise of prices abroad, we should arrive at a point at which the transition from a system of protection to one of free importation, could be safely made. I have always maintained, that
 788 s. s. d., 789 s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. 790 "The labouring classes too, being assured of a supply of the bare necessaries of life, are little disposed to any great changes in their mode of work, or any exertion of strength or skill beyond that to which they have been accustomed. They have been, and perhaps not without some reason, always represented as indolent, unskilful, filthy, and drunken, and averse to the improvement which their wiser and better superiors have attempted to introduce." adstricti glebæ, "With that description of persons [those qualified to judge], including the chiefs of several departments of the Government, the prevailing opinion was, that the average produce of wheat was not more than 14 bushels; of rye, 10; of barley, 14; of oats and of buckwheat, from 8 to 10 to the acre. Although the southern parts of Sandomir and Cracow yielded rather more, yet their corn, being celebrated for its excellent quality rather than for its much greater produce, and extending to but a small proportion of the whole corn of these provinces, it was not calculated that it would have the effect of raising the average of the whole kingdom in any sensible degree above the rate here stated." "The wheat grown here is that which is known in London by the name of Dantzic white wheat; it is of the most excellent quality—very white and heavy. I did not learn that the average growth was much beyond, if it reached, 20 bushels to the acre; though I heard individual instances of a greater quantity being yielded in good years. The district is about sixty miles in length, but not
 791 
 
 Prussian Maritime Provinces. Polish Province of Plock. 
 Acres. Acres. 
 Horses and colts 1 to 42 1 to 106 
 Oxen, cows, & calves 1 to 18 1 to 24 
 Sheep and lambs 1 to 10 1 to 24 
 Swine 1 to 35 1 to 52 
 
 1 cow or ox to 26¾ acres. 
 1 sheep or lamb to 19 
 1 horse to 156 
 1 pig to 146 792 s. s., s. s. s., s. 793
 MR. HORSMAN  said, whether the information were true or not, the hon. Member was not justified in attacking a public servant without giving him notice.
 MR. G. J. HEATHCOTE  hoped the House would allow him to say a very few words upon the very important question which was before them, and as he promised to occupy but a very little of their time, he trusted he would be favoured with their indulgent attention. In addressing himself to the question, he hoped he would, as much as possible, look at measures, and only treat of men in their public capacity, He did not appear there to attack the inconsistencies of others—he only appeared to maintain his own consistency; but in spite of all that might be said upon that subject—in spite of the levity and indifference with which some appeared to treat the question, he trusted that an adherence to professions, a plain straightforward attachment to principles, had still some value in the eyes of the people of this country. When the noble Lord the Member for London brought forward measures which he (Mr. Heathcote) believed would work great injury to agriculturists, although he was a general supporter of the noble Lord, he gave those measures his most decided opposition; and when measures more extensive, and ten thousand times more mischievous, were introduced by right hon. Gentlemen, he would give them every opposition in his power. In adverting to the question, would the House permit him to recall their attention back to what was the state of things at the end of last autumn? There never before was a time when there was such an appearance of well-being and prosperity in the country. Manufactures of all kinds were in a most flourishing condition, and even agriculture was beginning to recover from the deep wound which the policy of the right hon. Baronet in 1842 had inflicted. Well, at that time the Go-
 779 s. s. 780 s. s. 781 782 783 s. 784 s. s., s. Cheers from Members on the Opposition benches. s. s.; 785 from Members on the Opposition benches. 786 s.; s. s. s.; s. * s.; s.; s.; s.; s.; s. * 
 
 An Account of the Price of Wheat in Denmark and in England, compiled from the Consular Returns presented to Parliament in 1841. Ordered to be printed April 7, 1843:— 
 ENGLAND. DENMARK. 
 1815 65 s. 36 s. 
 1816 78 s. 36 s. 
 1817 96 s. 57 s. 
 1818 86 s. 43 s. 
 1819 74 s. 33 s. 
 1820 67 s. 26 s. 
 1821 56 s. * 18 s. * 
 1822 44 s. 19 s. 
 1823 53 s. 20 s. 
 1824 63 s. 16 s. 
 1825 68 s. 17 s. 
 1826 58 s. 18 s. 
 1827 58 s. 21 s. 
 1828 60 s. 27 s. 
 1829 66 s. 39 s. 
 1830 64 s. 34 s. 
 1831 66 s. 39 s. 
 1832 58 s. 32 s. 
 1833 52 s. 20 s. 
 1834 46 s. 18 s. 
 1835 39 s. 19 s. 
 1836 48 s. 25 s. 
 1837 55 s. 25 s. 
 1838 64 s. 36 s. 
 1839 70 s. 38 s. 
 * Average, 57 s. Average, 18 s. 787 s., s. s., s. s. s. s. s.,
 MR. MILNES GASKELL  said, he rose, in the performance of a most painful duty, to oppose a Government which he had long cordially followed; and although the office he had lately held was not one that gave him any claim to explain the grounds on which he had quitted it, he felt sure that he should receive the indulgence of the House during the few observations which he had to make. There was no Member of the House of Commons, however humble might be his position, who had not a public duty to discharge, which must be paramount to all other considerations—a public character to maintain—a constituency to represent and serve—and the interests of this great Empire to promote to the best of his judgment and ability. During the fourteen years that he (Mr. Gaskell) had had the honour of a seat in Parliament, he had given a constant support to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government. He might now, perhaps, without presumption, call him his right hon. Friend, as his official connexion with him had ceased. [Sir R. PEEL: Hear, hear.] During those fourteen years, he had been proud to follow the right hon. Baronet. He had been proud to follow him in Opposition—he had been proud of his connexion with his Government—and he would gladly have made many and painful sacrifices to have been enabled to support him now; but he had felt, when this proposition had been first brought forward, that without some overwhelming proof of its necessity, it would be impossible for him (Mr. Gaskell) to run counter to implied engagements and recorded votes. And, notwithstanding the speech of his right hon. Friend the Secretary at War, and the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State, he must say, that he had still to learn what new circumstances had arisen, what sufficient reasons had been alleged, to justify that House, which had been elected to maintain agricultural protection,
 818 819 820 s. 821
 MR. COLQUHOUN  said, he was going to ask the permission of the House to make a personal explanation, painful at all times, but which it was incumbent on him to make after the observations of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, who, he was ready to admit, had no wish to misrepresent his opinions, although the right hon. Gentleman had greatly misunderstood them. It would be in the recollection of the House that the right hon. Baronet had stated that he had once held opinions similar to those entertained, and, he believed, most conscientiously entertained, by the hon. Member for Wolverhampton—namely, that he wished for a total repeal of the Corn Laws, and that he
 757 758 tactique 759 760 761 762 763 "Tuque tuis armis, nos te poteremur, Achille!" 764 765 s., s. s. s.; s. d. 766 767 768 l., l.; l. l. l. l., 769 l. l. l.; 770 "Claudite jam rivos, pueri; sat prata biberunt;" 771 772 773
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that considering the various emotions to which this question had given rise, he naturally approached it with some degree of anxiety; although feeling in his heart that when the present passions and animosities should have passed away, posterity would wonder at the extraordinary sensation which the present proposition of the Government had produced. He approached the consideration of this question without having any personal feeling—he had no opinion to explain away—he had no peculiar reasons to assign, for in his present convictions he had nothing to defend, but he found every thing to assail. A remark made by the hon. Gentleman who had just down, certainly appeared to him to call for some observations by those who entertained some feelings for the independence of Parliament. It might be a very proper thing for Gentlemen who had
 822 823 824 "If you withdraw protection from agriculture, the necessary consequence will be that all the corn in the world will come into England, and the difference in the price of corn under a non-protective and under a protective system will be the difference between 19 s. s. s. s., s. s. 825 s. s. 826 s. s. s. s. 827 828
 MR. P. M. STEWART  suggested the justice and expediency of having such hon. Members as did not serve on Railway Committees during last Session appointed to that particular business during the present.
 MR. T. BARING  said, upon the subject under discussion, and upon some others, he regretted to say he had the misfortune of differing from friends upon whose sound
 794 795 796 797 798 "The apprehension of a present scarcity prepared the minds of all men for it, and our position with regard to food imperatively demands that provision, to the utmost possible extent, should be made against a calamity which has often come upon us, and may again, when the ports of Europe may be closed against us. To the United States, in such contingencies, we must mainly look for our supply. But while we admit this, we do not advocate the total and immediate repeal of the Corn Laws. To such a measure is opposed the conviction that it would be unjust towards the landed interest, and produce such a revolution in our monetary and commercial affairs as would be most pernicious to the industry of the country. But we recommend a moderate fixed duty, with a gradual reduction until it is entirely abrogated." 799 per se, 800 "I shall go further and say, that in my opinion it is expedient, by safe, gradual, and cautious measures, to base our laws relating to the trade in corn on the sound principles which regulate our commercial policy in respect of every other branch of industry." 801 d., d., d. d. d., d., d., d., 802 s.; s.; s.; s.; s. s. s., s. s. d.; s. d.; s., 803
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  had just been informed by the officer himself that the errors complained of were typographical; it was rather hard, therefore, that those intrusted with the preparation of the returns in question should not only be charged with having made miscalculations, but should also have improper motives imputed to them.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, although the noble Lord had only given notice of his intention to move the appointment of a Classification Committee, it was not his intention to offer any opposition to the Resolutions to which the House were called upon to agree. But it was his intention to call the attention of the House to one particular point, which he conceived of importance; and if his suggestion were acted on in respect of the matter, he believed it would tend very much to spare the time of all Committees on Railway Bills. It was well known to those Gentlemen who sat upon such Committees, how much of the public time was taken up in proving what was called traffic tables. One party went into a deal of evidence to show what they wanted, and another, on the other hand, to show the contrary. The most extravagant calculations were gone into, and the Committees were obliged to sit and listen to all this absurd matter. If it were expedient to make a railway between A and B, he considered that question was enough for the Committee; and they ought not to be obliged to entertain calculations as to the probable amount of traffic between those two points. Now, therefore, he would propose by way of amendment, to add to the Resolutions of the noble Lord one to this effect—
 "That Committees on Railway Bills should not be obliged to consider the question of traffic, but to have power to refuse such evidence, and report such refusal to the House."
 Mr. DUNCOMBE  consented to withdraw his Motion, and was glad to hear the subject was under the consideration of the Committee.
 MR. M. GIBSON  rose to bear testimony to the general accuracy of the works compiled by Mr. Macgregor, of which he was a student. He had tested their truthfulness, and would undertake to say that no one was more desirous than that gentleman of giving sound information on commercial matters. It frequently happened that unintentional inaccuracies found their way into these public documents; in fact, an instance just occurred to him, relating to the quantity of corn which was to be expected from the province of Tamboff.
 756
 MR. GISBORNE  had always said last year of those Committees that they were honest but incompetent tribunals; but as many hon. Members had obtained so much experience by their attendance on those Committees, he thought it would be a pity to let the country lose the advantage of it.
 SIR G. CLERK  complained, that the hon. Member should have put his question without having given him the slightest intimation of his intention to make so serious
 755
 SIR H. DOUGLAS  moved the adjournment of the debate amid loud cries of "Adjourn," and "Go on." On the question of Adjournment being put,
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, in reference to the first question put to him by the hon. and gallant Member with respect to Captain Johnstone, who had lately been tried and not found guilty but insane, he begged to state to the hon. and gallant Officer, that her Majesty's Government had no power whatever of inflicting any punishment on that individual. It would be their duty to place him under close confinement for the rest of his days. In reference to the second question put to him by the hon. and gallant Member, he had the satisfaction of stating that the Board of Trade, by a recent regulation, had established a system of examination for masters of merchant vessels.
 Mr. WILLIAMS WYNN  said, that in voting with those whom he had been in the habit of supporting, he felt himself separated upon this question, which had very
 774 775 776 777 778
 VISCOUNT MORPETH : If the question had been a less important one, and the moment less critical, I might perhaps have hesitated, at so short a period after I had resumed my seat within this House, to present myself again to its notice, especially when I rise for the purpose of taking that view of the question, which, in my humble judgment, at least, has received almost all the illustration of which it is capable, from every thing that the most consummate ability, the most industrious research, and the most protracted discussion could bring to bear
 804 805 806 807 808 809 "On a careful comparison of the wages in the district in the respective periods of 1833 to 1835, and 1839 to 1841, from the testimony of mill-owners and the information of weavers and spinners, the amount of employment was at least two-fifths less than in the average of the preceding cheap period; and combining the two elements of a depreciated rate of wages and diminished amount of employment, it would appear that, estimating the fall of wages at 20 per cent., and the diminution of employment at 33, the real deduction in the wages of the operatives is about nine-twentieths, or nearly one-half—a fact which, coupled with the enormous rise in the price of flour and butchers' meat, painfully indicates the privations which the operative class is now enduring." 810 spolia opima s. s. s. d. s. d., s. l. d. s. d. l. s. l. 811 s. d. l. s., l. s., l. s., s. d. 812 813 "Tibi mittit ab antris "Æolus armatas hyemes; tibi militat æther, "Et conjurati veniunt ad classica venti." 814 815 A laugh. 816 esprit de corps; 817
 MR. JAMES  wished to ask his right hon. Friend whether Ministers had received any official information respecting a sad affray which had taken place in the north of England: it had occurred not far from Penrith, between English and Irish labourers, on what was called the Shap Fells, on the railway line from Lancaster to Carlisle. There had been several most savage and ferocious encounters between persons armed with knives, scythes, spades, and other weapons, and, besides bodily injuries, several poor Irishmen's huts had been razed to the ground, and all their little property destroyed. One Irishman had been attacked in his cottage, and, in the presence of his weeping wife and children, beaten in such a manner that his life was despaired of. The whole district was in a state of the greatest excitement and alarm, and several troops of yeomanry cavalry had found the utmost difficulty in suppressing the tumult. If the right hon. Baronet had received official information, he (Mr. James) wished also to learn whether any steps had been taken to aid the civil force for the preservation of the public peace?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the case was precisely this:—In consequence of a construction put upon the Act of 1842, certain parties claimed a right on a particular day to import a quantity of corn free of duty: the question was tried in the Court of Queen's Bench, and a decision was come to in favour of the right of the Crown to levy the duty. The parties carried the case into the Exchequer Chamber, and there all the Judges reversed the decision of the Court of King's Bench. At present it was under consideration whether it would be desirable, on the part of the Crown, to carry the question to a higher tribunal. The account in the newspapers, supposing the ultimate issue to be adverse to the Crown, was considerably exaggerated. He could not precisely state the amount of loss, but he believed it would not amount to 30,000 l.
 VISCOUNT VILLIERS  regretted that, in voting on the present occasion with the Government, he should differ from many of those friends with whom in political connexions he had so long been associated. In the course he was taking, however, he was actuated only by a desire to see such a policy adopted as would most speedily conduce to the general welfare of the community. When recently the consideration of the subject had been brought before the House, he had confessed himself in favour of protection; but it had been in favour of a protection which should be placed upon
 856
 MR. MILES  rose as one of that class which, the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken had said, sat there to promote their own interests: he thought that expression harsh, for as he had always done full justice to the opinions of hon. Gentlemen opposite, and thought that they had acted from zealous but mistaken motives, for the good of their country, so did he expect the same consideration in return. This was a great question; and although the hon. Member said that the hon. Member for Roxburghshire had wandered over the world in this discussion, yet when the magnitude of the subject was considered, they could not, in his opinion, look too far afield, or meditate too much upon the injuries likely to be inflicted, not only upon our home produce, but also upon that of our Colonies, and of every place now dependent on us. This was not an agricultural debate, though it had a good deal merged into one; but it was a debate involving every question, and those interests that were most dear to the whole population of the country. Scarcely an interest
 884 885 886 887 
 
 Before. Since. 
 Chiselborough 100 10 
 Odecomb 100 4 
 East Coker 150 12 
 West Coker 360 20 
 710 46 l.; 888 
 
 Chiselborough £1350 
 Odecomb 1440 
 East Coker 2070 
 West Coker 5100 
 Total 9960 889 890 "The soil and climate of France are adapted to the growth in perfection of almost every agricultural protection. All descriptions of corn, vegetables, and most fruits are, grown. Flax, hemp, oleaginous seeds, beetroot, various grasses, and plants yielding dyes, are cultivated extensively. The olive, the mulberry-tree, the rice, maize, wheat, and the potato, all find a natural soil, and flourish in this universally favoured country." "If we admitted the food and raiment and victuals, and colonial and other objects, which strangers would bring to our ports, we might, probably, gain some hundreds of millions. Should we be the richer in consequence? For the riches of a State are in the elements of labour, and when labour fails to find employment, misery is reproduced. And it is not only a question of comfort, but one of existence; for if wheat were introduced without duty from the Baltic or Black Sea, our Mauritius shores would remain uncultivated, and the effect of a ruinous competition would affect more and more nearly the whole of our agricultural population." "Russia may be said to prohibit the importation of every material like those which can be drawn by the labour of her serfs from her mines and forests; and of every foreign manufactured article, in order that the labour of their serfs, with the aid of machinery either imported or made in the country, and directed by skilful foreign artisans, shall be made to produce articles either similar to, or that may be substituted for, those of foreign manufacture." 891 892 "The capital employed in the home trade of any country will generally give encouragement and support to a greater quantity of productive labour in that country, and increase the value of its annual produce, more than an equal capital employed in the foreign trade of consumption; and the capital employed in this latter trade has in both these respects a still greater advantage over an equal capital employed in the carrying trade." 893 s., l.; s., l.; s. d., l.; s. d., l. s. d., l.; s. d., l.; s. d., l., s. d., l. s. d., l.; s. d., l.; s. d., l.; l., s. d. 894 s. d., l.; s. d., l.; s., l.; l., s. l. 895 l. s. l. l. l. s. s. s. d. s. d. s. d. l. l. s. l. s., s. 896 897 s., d. s., d. 898 s. s., s., 899 s. s. s. s. d. s. 900 901 "That part of Russia," said the Report compiled from the consular returns, "which lies west of the Ural Mountains, presents an immense plain, declining westward by an easy descent. This vast plain has a great variety of climates, soils, and
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, the hon. Member for Somersetshire (Mr. W. Miles) had wholly misrepresented what fell from him
 908
 The EARL of MARCH  moved the Adjournment of the Debate.
 COLONEL T. WOOD  said, he had expressed, on the first night of the Session, his entire confidence and approbation of the measures of Her Majesty's Government, and he would now explain, as shortly as he could, the grounds of that confidence, and his reason for supporting the measures which were now before the country. He gave his support to these measures on the broad ground that they were based on the principle of free trade, which he believed to be a principle that was not only beneficial and founded in justice, but the application of which, in the various measures that came before them, would not only contribute to the general prosperity of the country, but which was absolutely and essentially necessary to the preservation of the manufacturing interest, and to the maintenance of that degree of prosperity to which they had now arrived. The hon. Member for Somersetshire, at the conclusion of his speech, had appealed to the operatives of this country to come forward and aid him and the landed interest in the maintenance of protection. But he believed that the operatives of this country, though many of their trades would be affected by the measure before the House, yet, when they saw that the application of the principle of free trade was based upon a large and general view of the good of the whole, would believe that the same measure of justice was meted out to them which was meted out to the great and governing interests of the country; and that, in consequence of this, they would
 910 s. s. s. s. 911
 MR. S. O'BRIEN  rose, not for the purpose of answering the hon. Member, but to protest against the extreme inconvenience of speaking, which had been done a second time on the main question, while professing to speak to the question of adjournment. He put it to Members of all sides of the House, whether this was not a most inconvenient practice? Mark what the consequence might be. The hon. Gentleman alluded to him: and he, though he had spoken already on the Corn Laws, might speak again on the question of adjournment, occupying the House for hours with confuting his statements, and replying to all his arguments. But he would not do so: he rose only to protest against the inconvenience of this course; the consequence of which was, that three Irish Bills, all of great importance, were now to be brought before the House, when it was already twenty minutes past twelve o'clock.
 MR. SCOTT  resumed. He should be sorry to contravene the rules of the House; but if he were out of order the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair would set him right. At half-past ten at night on the 10th of February, the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) asked, "whether any Minister of the Crown could in fairness propose to the people of Great Britain to take out of the taxes of Great Britain public money to aid in the sustenance of their fellow countrymen in Ireland, while artificially, by laws so designed, the price of the food of the people of Great Britain was enhanced?" The same right hon. Baronet, the same night, at ten o'clock, said, "I do not believe that the abolition of protection will materially lower the price of corn." On the 22nd of January, the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) gave up the defence of the Corn Laws as no longer tenable. On the 27th of January, five days after, in replying to the noble Lord the Member for Lincolnshire, he stated that he was not prepared to assume that there would be any fall in the price of corn by the abolition of protection. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War, on the 9th of February, confirmed this statement by declaring that the claptrap of cheap bread had completely exploded. "I tear up these documents," said the hon. Member, suiting the action to the word, "for what could be deduced from this series of contradictious?" It merely showed the great difficulty in which public men were placed, when they adopted what he would not call a crooked course, but a tortuous line of policy. He considered that, of all things, character in public men was that which was of most importance. Changes of policy might be necessary; but they should always be made in accordance with the times, and they must depend, too, upon the men, and the mode, and the manner in which the changes were made; for, if they were made by some men, and in some manner, they might lead to the most ruinous and disastrous consequences. In 1842, he had supported most
 860 861 862 "The command over the necessaries of life is smaller in foreign countries than in England. The consumption of sugar in France is 5 lb. per head, in the German League 2 lb. per head, and in England 17 lb. per head. The consumption of woollen cloth throughout the German League, was 2 1–6 ells per head, and in England 54." l. 863 l. l. l. l., l. 864 l., d. d.; d. d.; s. s. 865 866 "Take, for instance, the case of Canada. Can any one for a moment doubt that, as soon as it is known on the other side of the Atlantic, that Canadian wheat has no longer any protection in England, the Canadians will at once insist on the repeal of Mr. Gladstone's Act, which gives protection in the Colonies to British manufactures? Nine-tenths of the Canada trade will thereupon go to the markets of New York and Boston. The overburthened people of England will in their turn begin to feel that they are going to the expense of defending a Colony which has ceased to be of any use to the Empire, as consuming its manufactures, or employing its sailors and shipping. And any hint from England of a desire for separation will be cheerfully responded to by the people of Canada, who will be writhing under the feeling that England has dishonourably broken the promises of protection to Canadian wheat and timber made by every Ministry from the timber panic of 1808 downwards, and will have got their eyes open to the fact that, as there remains no longer any, the slightest, bond of interest between Canada and the mother country, no reason can be given why the Canadians should risk their lives and properties in defending nothing; or should allow Canada to be any longer used as the battle-field of monarchy and republicanism, or of European and American squabbles. The Canadians will moreover see, that as their wheat is practically excluded from the English markets, their only chance is to get it introduced into the markets of the United States. That republic, however, will not have free trade with Canada, and a political connection will have to be consummated between them to give Canada the American protection of 8 s. s. 867 868 l. guarda costás, 869 l. s., l. s. s. d. l.; 870 l., l. s. d. s. 871
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, that when the measure was brought forward ten days ago, he came down to the House in the hope that he should be able to afford it a cordial support. Whenever he had addressed the House, he had always most readily given his voice and vote in support of the measures of the right hon. Baronet, and he need not now state the pain and regret with which he took an opposite course. He felt that his previous course of conduct,
 857 Hansard, 858 Hansard 859
 LORD NORTHLAND  rose amidst loud cries of "Adjourn." He wished to offer a few observations to the House, and though the question was not likely to come to an issue that night, he felt it his imperative duty to address them, in consequence of the few observations he felt it his duty to make on the first night of the Session; and he felt that he was not likely to find a more convenient opportunity than the present in order to state the reasons for the course which he intended to pursue. His opinions were unchanged; he still thought that the measures proposed by the right hon. Baronet were unnecessary; but he agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Inverness-shire, and the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool, that it was necessary for them to look before them. It must be evident to the House and to the country, that the Corn Laws were doomed—the fatal day might, perhaps, be postponed; but if it was, he feared that the agricultural interest might not be able to find at a future period so satisfactory an adjustment as was now offered to them. A crisis had arrived, and he felt that it was for the interests of the farmers of England, as well as for the interests of the landowners of England, that this momentous question should now be finally settled as speedily as possible. He had not come to this conclusion without due consideration. He had been led somewhat hastily to give an opinion on the first night of the Session. He would not say his opinions were changed; but he wished to state his reason for the vote he was about to give. If it came to this, if the question was whether the right hon. Gentleman the First Minister of the Crown, or the Noble Lord the Member for London, was to settle this question, then he must say that he had no confidence in the noble Lord. He said it, with the greatest respect for the noble Lord, that he had no confidence in him.
 909 The Noble Lord was constantly interrupted when speaking, and was only imperfectly heard.
 LORD NORTHLAND  rose to reply, but was prevented from proceeding.
 MR. E. BULLER  rose to order. He thought it was an understood rule of the House that no Member was at liberty to refer to the speech of another hon. Member on a preceding night's debate.
 MR. CARDWELL  had to state, that after the close of the last Session, according to his promise, the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, in conjunction with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had taken into consideration the report of the Committee which sat upon the subject. The Commissioners for the repair of Westminster-bridge had no funds for the construction of a new bridge, and the course taken by the Treasury was this: Instructions had been given to the Commissioners to obtain weekly reports from the engineers of the state and security of the bridge, and whenever these reports contained a notice of the slightest alteration, they were to be communicated to the Treasury. Special
 838
 MR. CARDWELL  had some reason to apprehend that the hope entertained that the new Houses of Parliament would be ready by the commencement of the Session of 1847 might possibly not be realized. He was aware that some causes of delay had occurred, and he was afraid that they would partly account for the postponement. He could assure the hon. Baronet that these causes of delay had received the most anxious consideration, and every exertion had been made to accomplish the object. He could only conclude, as before, with expressing a hope that the hon. Baronet would not think it necessary or expedient that a Committee should be appointed.
 MR. STRUTT  said, that the omission having been in the House, and not before the Committee, the Committee could not properly deal with it.
 MR. STRUTT , in bringing up the Report of the Sub-Committee of which he is the Chairman (No. 1), took occasion to ask the opinion of the House with regard to the course to be adopted in treating petitions against Railway Bills referred to the Committees on Standing Orders, which were not themselves prepared in compliance with the provisions of the Standing Order No. 111-A, which required "that the name or short title by which such Bill had been entered at the Private Bill Office should appear in the beginning of such petition." In one of the cases (the Exeter, Yeovil, and Dorchester) which had been referred to the Committee of which he was chairman, there were no fewer than five petitions against the Bill, not one of which complied with that Standing Order. The same thing had occurred with several others. Of course if the irregularity had been detected when the petitions had been presented at the Table of the House, they would not have been referred to the Select Committee on Private Bills, and could not have come before him. As the case stood, however, the Sub-Committee felt that it was one not relating to themselves alone, but to the practice of the House; and they, therefore, resolved to lay the matter before it, and to take the opinion of the House upon it.
 Mr. J. COLLETT  referred to a statement, that in consequence of a singular flaw in the Corn Law, the revenue had suffered to a considerable extent. The right hon. Gentleman had promised to give an answer to the question he (Mr. Collett) had put, in a few days, and he wished now to be informed
 839
 MR. M. O'FERRALL  was of opinion that the sum was large, because, it should be remembered, the money was not to be applied for the relief of destitution in that country, but for the advancement of the public works of the kingdom. All he asked was, that the Government should put a limit to the amount that ratepayers might be called upon to pay.
 MR. GISBORNE  could not see why any indulgence should be shown to those parties who complained of the non-compliance of others with the Standing Orders of the House, by petitions not prepared in compliance with them. These petitions should not be received, and if his hon. Friend persisted in admitting them, he (Mr. Gisborne) would divide the House upon it.
 MR. GREENE , though anxious at all times to enforce the Orders of the House, entertained some doubts whether the Committee would be justified in rejecting those petitions. Although the Order 111-A was plain and definite enough, there was no penalty whatever attached to it. It did not say that the parties who should neglect to comply with its provisions should not be heard; and under such circumstances it would be rather hard that after parties had presented petitions in a form that they had no expectation would be refused, they should be refused a hearing without some degree of notice. In the present instance he thought that they must pass over the irregularity. It would be utterly impossible, in the enormous mass of petitions on Railway Bills presented nightly in the House, to observe whether they were or were not prepared in compliance with the Standing Orders. The Committee should have power
 835 "That it be an Instruction to the Select Committee on Petitions for Private Bills, and to all Committees upon Private Bills, not to hear parties on any Petition hereafter referred to them, which shall not be prepared and signed in strict conformity with the Rules and Orders of this House."
 MR. WYSE  inquired if the vote for 100,000 l.
 MR. ENTWISLE  thought it very hard that parties promoting Railway Bills should be put to immense expense and inconvenience to meet those who made objections on the grounds of non-compliance with the Standing Orders of the House, when those objectors themselves had not complied with the Standing Orders on Petitions, while the grounds of objection were frequently of the most trifling description. He thought that there was no excuse for parties who, in complaining of non-compliance with Standing Orders, did not themselves comply with them. They should not be heard.
 MR. FERRAND : I beg to ask the noble Lord what confidence he had in the right hon. Baronet, when he was dragged out of "the Coal-hole" to vote for him on a late occasion?
 MR. ELLIS  thought the wording of the Standing Order 111-A, not itself sufficiently definite. It required the name or short title of the Bill to be placed at "the beginning of the petition." Now the object was to have it placed as a heading, for the insertion of the name or short title in the first paragraph would not be sufficient. The House should mate the Standing Orders definite, complete, and clear.
 SIR GEORGE CLERK  thought the matter required serious consideration. There would be some difficulty in enforcing the provisions of the Standing Orders at times—for instance, in the case of parties four or five hundred miles off forwarding petitions against Bills. They might be sufficiently able to give such description as would serve to identify the Bill they desired to oppose; but they might be unable to ascertain the exact name or short title by which the Bill was described in the Private Bill Office. He thought it would be most advisable that the Report should be received and laid on the Table. It could be then printed and taken into further consideration on Monday.
 MR. H. G. WARD  said, the hon. Member who had just addressed the House was an exceedingly difficult man to follow. [ A laugh. 872 873 874 875 "It was his unalterable conviction that we could not uphold the Corn Laws now in existence, together with the taxation, and increase the national prosperity, or preserve public contentment. That these laws could be repealed without affecting the landed interest, whilst the people would be relieved from their distress, he never had any doubt whatever." 876 petitio principii toto cœlo 877 878 879 d. d., 880 s. s. 881 s. s., s. s.; 882 883 juste milieu
 SIR HOWARD DOUGLAS  said: I rise with a degree of pain which I shall not attempt to express, but which I am sure my right hon. Friend believes and understands, to make a few observations on the momentous subject which he has brought forward; and to explain and declare the vote which it is my intention to give, against withdrawing protection from British agriculture, and against the extinction of the protective principle. I was brought forward for the representation of Liverpool on the colonial, and consequently on the protective principle. I connect significantly these expressions, because I shall have occasion to revert to them hereafter. Although perfectly unfettered, and unpledged, I yet distinctly and explicitly avowed myself the advocate of that principle at my election, and I have supported it accordingly with my voice and vote in this House. I have opposed all the Motions that have been made for the repeal of the Corn Laws. I took part in the discussion, and opposed the Motion of the hon. Member for Stoke-on-Trent for the repeal of all Import Duties. I have carefully revised and reconsidered all I have said in this House and elsewhere upon these important subjects. I find nothing to regret, excepting the imperfect
 840 l. l. l. 841 l., l. l. 842 l. l. l. l.; * numeraire * 843 l. s. d. l. l. s. d., s. d., s. d. s. d. s. d. 844 845 "To impose duties upon foreign, for the encouragement of native industry, when burthens are laid upon it by foreign nations," (and what foreign nation does not lay burthens upon our industry?)
 846 847 848 849 s., * * 850 851 852 l. l. d. l. 853 "Do not let us be in a hurry; let us look at all the bearings of the case. We are willing to throw open the trade of our Colonies to the United States, provided they meet fairly the propositions held out in our Acts. But if after such deliberation it were deemed necessary, or we should be forced, to retaliate, he would enjoin the House to adhere to it with firmness." "Before I sit down, Sir, I must say, that some of the doctrines of my hon. Friend on the subject of our trade are not quite just or well founded. At least, they are not doctrines which I have ever entertained; certainly, they are very different from those which I have expressed in this House, and they are equally distinct from the principles upon
 854 "The history of this country," says Huskisson, in his letter to his constituents at Chichester, "proves that cheapness produced by foreign import is the sure forerunner of scarcity; and a steady home supply is the only safe foundation of steady moderate prices. During upwards of one hundred years to 1765, when the import of foreign corn was restrained by very high duties, our own growth of corn was ample for our own consumption in ordinary seasons, redundant in abundant seasons, and in bad seasons occasioned no apprehension of, or actual want. The price of corn seldom varied more than a few shillings per quarter; if there was no inordinate gain to the farmer, there was no starvation to the consumer; prices, instead of rising from year to year, gradually diminished: whereas since 1765, the supply has been unsteady and precarious, our dependence on foreign supplies gradually increasing till the war came, when, by the foreign supply being interrupted, the country became dependent on its rivals and its enemies for the food of its people. In the first eighteen years of this war, we were forced to pay sixty millions of money to nations every one of which has in the course of that war been our enemy, for a scanty and inadequate supply of foreign corn; and when, for this purpose, we parted with all our gold and even our silver currency, combined Europe shut its ports against us, and America co-operating, first laid an embargo, and then went to war. Shall I then," continued Huskisson, "be deterred from using my honest endeavours in Parliament to prevent the recurrence of such sufferings? I admit that if unlimited foreign import, which the war had suspended, were now again allowed, bread might be a little, though a very little, cheaper than it now is, for a year or two; but what would follow? The small farmers would be ruined; improvement would standstill; inferior lands now producing corn would return to a state of waste; the home consumption and brisk demands for all the various articles of the retail dealer would rapidly decline, to the great injury of our towns, especially those which are not connected with manufactures or commerce: farming servants, and all the trades which depend on agriculture, would be thrown out of work, and wages would fall even more rapidly than the price of corn. The great farmers and large capitalists might for a time bear up against foreign import, and, should they do so, will command extravagant prices to repay themselves; but in the mean time, the poorer, but not less industrious, small farmers, will have been ruined. To protect the small farmers is ultimately to protect the people." 855 "It is the first and paramount law of every State to provide for its own safety and defence; we will never listen to a theory which, by withdrawing protection from the colonial trade, would render insecure those possessions on which essentially depends the power of Great Britain, to retain that high station in the rank of nations which she owes to her commercial and colonial ascendancy; and least of all shall we listen to the representation of States which evince boundless jealousy of our navigation in peace, and of our maritime ascendancy in case of war; and who tell us distinctly, that they are steadily looking to the ulterior object, of one day disputing with us the dominion of the seas."
 SIR J. GRAHAM  moved the following Resolution:—
 "Resolved—That the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury be authorized to direct advances to be made out of the Consolidated Fund of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, to an amount not exceeding 100,000 l.,
 SIR J. GRAHAM  replied that this sum was in addition.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that the presence of the ratepayers with the magistrates would prove a sufficient safeguard against any misapplication of money.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, his hon. Friend seemed to know more of the matter than he
 837
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  referred to certain questions of which he had given notice, relative to Westminster-bridge and the new Palace of Westminster. Seeing the Secretary for the Treasury in his place, and knowing that he must have much information on the subject, he was anxious to put to him the questions he had intended to ask the Chief Commissioner of the Woods and Forests. He could not expect the House to recollect, but he believed that the right hon. Gentleman well remembered, that on the 4th of August last he had put certain questions as to the state in which Westminster-bridge had been left. On that occasion the First Lord of the Treasury said, that he had received a communication some days before, and that as soon as the Session was closed, he, with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, would take the matter into consideration. He wished to be informed whether that report had since been considered—what was the decision upon it—what sums of money had been laid out upon the repair (if such a word were applicable) of Westminster-bridge, and whether Government were prepared to appoint a Committee on the subject? When the right hon. Gentleman had answered these questions respecting Westminster-bridge, he would follow them up by others regarding the new Palace of Westminster.
 SIR R. INGLIS  observed, that such an answer was most unsatisfactory, and he would revert to the subject hereafter. He now came to his other question—when was it likely that the House would be able to enter upon its new locality? [ A laugh.
 SIR W. HEATHCOTE  said, that it was the House that must deal with the petition, for the Committee had not the power. There was a distinction between this case and others under the Standing Orders. The Standing Order 111-A, required certain conditions to be complied with; but when
 836
 MR. W. MILES  expressed his regret that he had put an erroneous construction on the hon. Gentleman's observations.
 MR, B. ESCOTT  thought the proposition was either a useless repetition of the rules of the House, or an improper interference with the rights of the petitioners. He thought that the matter too much affected one particular railway.
 The EARL of MARCH  rose and said: Sir, in addressing the House on this occasion, I can assure you it is not my intention to enter upon the subject at any great length, or to weary the House by going into any statistical details. That I con-
 966 967 968 Hansard 969 970 971 972
 SIR J. TYRRELL  could assure the House that, feeling as he did that this question had been debated to death by both sides of the House, and by the country, it was with the greatest reluctance that he ventured to trespass upon it for its indulgence; but he congratulated the House that at the expiration of the fifth night of the debate, the Anti-Corn-Law League should have thought proper to come to the rescue of their friends; and it was also a matter of congratulation to him that they had not been able, so far as he could ascertain, to add any new argument, or to state any new case that had not over and over again been brought forward in Covent Garden and the country. They added no arguments to those which had already made such an impression on the right hon. Baronet sitting near him. He would allude to what had been stated by the hon. Member for Manchester, with respect to his friend and his sixty-two farmers; and would state that they were not able to make a very satisfactory arrangement with their landlords, until the hon. Member for Manchester dared to assure them that the prices of corn would not be materially affected by the new arrangement. He rose, principally, to notice a statement of the noble Lord the Member for London, made in the early part of the debate; namely, in gloating over the fallen fortune of the great party that sat near him, the noble Lord was pleased to impute the most unfair motives to hon. Gentlemen who had resisted the Motion of the Member for Sheffield, for an inquiry into the peculiar burdens on land. He understood the noble Lord to say, that we doubted our own statistics, and sheltered ourselves under cases the most plausible. He thought it right that the House and the country should be aware of the real history of that case; and in those days of confession, of explanation, and of political tergiversation, that he also
 998 999 delirium tremens 1000 "I pray for strength of mind, for strength of mind for my children, for this reason, that they may be able at least to appreciate truth keenly. When a man does that honestly, things become comparatively easy, as, for instance, Peel has a strong idea about the currency—and a distinct impression about it, and therefore upon that ground I would trust him that he would not yield to clamour; but upon most other matters, the Church more especially, he seems to have no idea; therefore I would not trust him that he would not give up all to-morrow if the clamour were loud enough." 1001
 MR. JAMES  was now as he had always been, a supporter of the repeal of the Corn Laws. An attempt had been made to connect the question of the sugar duties with the question before the House, both by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets, and the hon. Member who had last spoken. It seemed to him to be the more convenient course to keep those questions separate; but he would say, he did not think there was any inconsistency in being a free trader in corn, and not being a free trader in sugar. He did not assert that without authority—that of Mr. M'Gregor, who said, that the sugar question was so mixed up with slavery and the Slave Trade, that it ought to be taken out of the category of free-trade measures. He did not hope to offer any new arguments on the question. He thought the arguments upon this question were worn threadbare. In the early part of the debate, many hon. Gentleman treated the question with a sort of funeral oration upon the Corn Laws, and stated the fearful and direful forebodings which they entertained as to the consequences likely to result from their abolition; in which apprehensions he for one could not anticipate. If the House would allow him, he would refer briefly to the progress of public opinion upon this subject within the last few years, showing that in a good cause it was never necessary to despair; but that measures founded upon just, sound, and comprehensive principles were sure, sooner or later, to succeed. In 1831, he had the honour to second the Motion in his place in that House for a total repeal of the Corn Laws. He then had the honour to make use of several of the arguments which had been of late so much employed, and were so deservedly popular at Manchester and other parts of the country. The Motion in 1831, was proposed by the hon. Member for Preston, Mr. Hunt; and what was the opinion of the House upon that occasion? Only one
 1002 1003
 COLONEL ANSON  thought that parties had had abundant notice of that rule. It had been a Sessional Order last year, and it had been made a Standing Order for the present year, so that the notice had been quite sufficient. He really thought that the parties infringing it ought to suffer penalties consequent, and he trusted that the House would agree to the Amendment of the hon. Member for South Lancashire.
 LORD C. CHURCHILL  believed the country would be reduced to a state of penury, and altogether coincided with the opinions which had been delivered on this question by one of the ablest men that ruled this country, and one of those opinions was based on thirty years' experience of the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel), and the
 985
 LORD H. VANE  stated that he had invariably given his adhesion to the general principles of commercial policy proposed by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, and had supported some of his recent measures, in accordance with those principles. He did not wish to deny that the measure now proposed by the Government was very different from anything he had anticipated in 1841. He fairly confessed that, although he was convinced at that time of
 995 996 997
 MR. B. COCHRANE  explained. He claimed credit for never having made offensive personal allusions; and when he spoke of the noble Duke in conjunction with the Reform Bill, he had treated it as a mere matter of public history, not pretending to be acquainted with the secrets of the Cabinet. It was now stated that the noble Duke had resigned rather than consent to swamp the House of Lords; and he (Mr. B. Cochrane) gave him full credit for his conduct. No man had a greater respect for the personal character of the noble Duke than he had, and he never meant to make an attack upon it.
 MR. STRUTT , as the first person who brought the matter under the consideration of the House, could not allow it to be disposed of without offering a few observations. In the first place, he should observe upon the argument which had been used, that the Standing Order under consideration was of the same kind as all the other Standing Orders; and the hon. Member for Nottingham had just stated that if there were no penalty attached to the Standing Order 111-A, neither was there any penalty attached to the others. But he (Mr. Strutt) should say that there was a penalty attached to the others; and if his hon. Friend would look into the matter, he would find that there was a very serious penalty, being no less than the loss of the Bill, in the case in which the non-compliance should have been shown. The requirements of the Standing Order under consideration were very important, the object being to prevent mistakes in the case of petitions. He thought it very desirable that the House should come to the Resolution; and all that he objected to was that they should qualify it by the word "hereafter." As, however, the parties who had presented the petitions could have amended them had they been objected to at the Table of the House in the first instance, and as it would be then too late for them to do so, he would vote against the Amendment, and in favour of the original Motion.
 MR. FRENCH  rose to put a question of which he had given notice some time ago. He had seen it stated in the public prints, that the Poor Law Commissioners had taken upon themselves to dismiss two boards of guardians in Ireland. He had since received a communication stating, that the Commissioners had been defeated in a proposition brought before the board;
 965
 MR. DICKINSON  said, that he thought that the hon. Member who had just spoken would scarcely contend that tobacco could be profitably grown in this country, if the ports were open for the introduction of that article from all foreign countries, and yet he had blamed the right hon. Baronet for not permitting its cultivation on the free-trade principle. It was his opinion, that had the measure been introduced as a temporary means of relief, that the ports could never have been shut again, and then the right hon. Baronet would have been accused of taking advantage of a temporary want to remove those protective duties which he knew could never be restored. He, for one, believed the present proposal just and right, considering the difficulty of coming to any decision on the question which alone agitated the country; he feared it would be torn to pieces between the two great parties and combinations which pervaded it, and saw great danger to its best interests had the right hon. Baronet followed the advice tendered to him, and appealed to
 984
 MR. L. W. BUCK , as the Representative of one of the most influential agricultural counties in the kingdom, was determined to give his decided vote against a measure which was well calculated to spread alarm and dismay in every agricultural district. He did not merely consider the proposed measure of the right hon. Baronet as one which should in its evil effects be solely confined to the agricultural interests, as it would also affect the industrious of every class in the country. It was unfortunately no longer a question with the country whether they were to have a fixed duty or the sliding-scale, as what was now being proposed should ultimate in total repeal; and which he was most firmly convinced would seriously affect the native industry of all
 992 993 s. s., l. l. 994
 MR. M. GIBSON  intended to make only a comparatively few observations on a question in which he had taken much interest, and which importantly affected the prosperity and comfort of his constituents. To one part of the speech of the noble Lord who had just resumed his seat, he gave a most cordial concurrence: he referred to the passage where he stated that, if protection were not good for corn, it was not good for manufactures. He admitted that the noble Lord and his friends had a perfect and indisputable right to claim at the hands of Parliament, that if there were no legis-
 973 974 975 s. s., s. s. d. s. s., s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. 976 977 978 979
 MR. GISBORNE  begged to be permitted to offer a few observations upon the question, as he had previously been heard upon the late occasion, when it had been before the House. It had been urged that the Standing Order No. 111-A could not be enforced by the Committee, because no penalty was attached to it. Why, he could show them one or two, or rather indeed very many others of those same Standing Orders, to which there were no penalties attached. As to the discovering of defects in the petitions which were presented to the House, the House did not pretend to find out defects in them. Petitions were seldom even opened. It was not known whether there was a single signature attached to them. It was taken on the good faith of the Member who presented the petition that it was what it professed to be. He was one of those who thought the Standing Orders too stringent, and that they ought to be relaxed. But whilst they
 963
 MR. GREENE  moved—
 "That it be an Instruction to the Select Committee on Petitions for Private Bills, and to all Committees upon Private Bills, not to hear parties on any Petition hereafter referred to them which shall not be prepared and signed in strict conformity with the Rules and Orders of this House."
 MR. HALSEY  said: If I could agree with the right hon. Member for Wilts that this was a mere fiscal question, involving only the consideration of Customs' Duties, I should have been well content to leave the discussion of the policy implicated in it, to those whose longer experience, whose greater talents, and more lucid eloquence, give them a better claim to the attention of this House; but as it is not on mere fiscal grounds that I shall oppose this measure; as imputations of legislating for a class have been thrown out against those
 980 981 982 bonâ fide genus irritabile vatum? 983
 MR. ENTWISLE  thought some of the objections of petitioners against Bills were very frivolous, and he saw no reason why any relaxation of the Standing Orders should be extended to them. He knew one instance in which a petition had been presented against a Railway Bill, on the ground of the subscription deed not having been signed in accordance with the Standing Orders; the fact being, that about forty of the subscribers had signed by
 962
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  reminded the House that some time ago he had put a question on the subject of tenant compensation in Ireland, when he understood the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government to say that it was under consideration. As it was a matter on which he felt great anxiety, he trusted that he should not be thought too pressing if he now requested an answer to his question, whether the Government intended to introduce in the present Session any measure on the subject of landlord and tenant in Ireland, and particularly as regarded compensation to tenants.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  replied, that it was true that the Commissioners had thought it necessary to dissolve the board of guardians of Tuam and Castlereagh. He apprehended that what he was about to state would show that the exercise of this power was not only unobjectionable, but that it was absolutely necessary in the present circumstances of Ireland, distressing as those circumstances were. At Tuam and Castlereagh the guardians had positively refused to open the workhouse, or to relieve the poor out of doors. For that reason, and for that reason mainly, the Commissioners had deemed it absolutely necessary to dissolve the two boards, and to call upon the ratepayers to elect fresh boards.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS : I wish to ask a question of the noble Lord, whom I see in his place, interesting to the country, with reference to the recent outbreak of war in India. I find that in a former instance the  Morning Herald, Times, 964
 SIR R. PEEL : I certainly do hope that Government will be enabled, in the present Session; to introduce a measure to the consideration of Parliament on the subject to which the hon. Member has referred.
 SIR R. PEEL  then rose and spoke as follows:—Mr. Speaker, Two matters of great importance have occupied the attention of the House during this protracted debate—the one, the manner in which a party should be conducted; the other, the measures by which an imminent public calamity shall be mitigated, and the principles by which the commercial policy of a great Empire shall for the future be governed. On the first point, the manner in which a party should be conducted, by far the greater part of this debate has turned. I do not undervalue its importance; but, great as it is, surely it is subordinate in the eyes of a people to that other question to which I have referred—the precautions to be taken against impending scarcity, and the principles by which your commercial policy shall hereafter be governed. On the party question I have little defence to make. Yes, Sir, these are I admit at once, the worst measures for party interests that could have brought forward. I admit also that it is unfortunate that the conduct of this measure, so far as the Corn Laws are concerned, should be committed to my hands. It would, no doubt, have been far preferable, that those should have the credit, if credit there be, for an adjustment of the Corn Laws, who have been uniform and consistent opponents of those laws. That which prevented myself and those who concurred with me from committing it at once to other hands, was the firm conviction under which we laboured, that a part of this Empire was threatened with a great calamity. I did firmly believe, I do firmly believe, that that there is impending over you a calamity that all will deplore. I did think that while there was that danger, and while I had the hopes of averting it, it would not be consistent with my duty to my Sovereign, or with the honour of a public man, to take that opportunity of shrinking from the heavy responsibilities which it imposed. While I retained the hope of acting with a united Administration, while I thought there was a prospect of bringing this question to a settlement, I determined to retain office and incur its responsibilities. When I was compelled to abandon that hope (my sense of the coming evil remaining the same), I took
 1004 1005 "Whitehall, Dec. 8, 1845. "Sir Robert Peel presents his humble duty to Your Majesty, and, influenced by no other motive than the desire to contribute, if possible, to the relief of Your Majesty from embarrassment, and to the protection of the public interests from injury, is induced to make to Your Majesty this confidential communication explanatory of Sir Robert Peel's position and intentions with regard to the great question which is now agitating the public mind. "Your Majesty can, if you think fit, make this communication known to the Minister who, as successor to Sir Robert Peel, may be honoured by Your Majesty's confidence. "On the 1st of November last, Sir Robert Peel advised his Colleagues, on account of the alarming accounts from Ireland, and many districts in this country, as to the failure of the potato crop from disease, and for the purpose of guarding against contingencies, which in his opinion were not improbable, humbly to recommend to Your Majesty that the duties on the import of foreign grain should be suspended for a limited period, either by Order in Council or by Legislative Enactment; Parliament, in either case, being summoned without delay. "Sir Robert Peel foresaw that this suspension, fully justified by the tenor of the report to which he has referred, would compel, during the interval of suspension, the reconsideration of the Corn Laws. "If the opinions of his Colleagues had then been in concurrence with his own, he was fully prepared to take the responsibility of suspension
 1006 "He was disposed to recommend that any new laws to be enacted should contain within themselves the principle of gradual reduction and final repeal. "Sir Robert Peel is prepared to support, in a private capacity, measures which may be in general conformity with those which he advised as a Minister. "It would be unbecoming in Sir Robert Peel to make any reference to the details of such measures. "Your Majesty has been good enough to inform Sir Robert Peel that it is your intention to propose to Lord John Russell to undertake the formation of a Government. "The principle on which Sir Robert Peel was prepared to recommend the reconsideration of the laws affecting the import of the main articles of food was in general accordance with that referred to in the concluding paragraph of Lord John Russell's letter to the electors of the city of London. "Sir Robert Peel wished to accompany the removal of restriction on the admission of such articles with relief to the land from any charges that may be unduly onerous, and with such other provisions as, in the terms of Lord John Russell's letter, 'caution and even scrupulous forbearance may suggest.' "Sir Robert Peel will support measures founded on that general principle, and will exercise any influence he may possess to promote their success." "Sir Robert Peel feels it to be his duty to add that, should Your Majesty's future advisers, after consideration of the heavy demands made upon the army of this country for colonial service, of our relations with the United States, and of the
 1007 1008 1009 s. 1010 s. s. "No person was more disposed than I was to look with hope to that part of the potato crop in this country that appeared sound before Christmas. I thought it was quite safe and certain to
 1011 "If the case is so bad with me, and it is nearly the same in the four districts I allude to, how much worse must it be with the poor, who have not the convenience and aid that large farming establishments, with substantial buildings, can command? In short, as one rides through the country, rotten potatoes are to be seen everywhere in large quantities by the side of the roads; pits, lately turned, in most cases much smaller than the heaps of rotten potatoes alongside them; and those in the pits are certain, if not quickly consumed, to share in the general decay. "Such, Sir, is the state I may say of the entire country. No doubt for six or seven weeks, while the remains of the potatoes last, destitution will not be general; but I pray you, Sir, look to it in time." "Queen's County, Stradbally, Feb. 11, 1846. "With reference to the potato disease, I beg to state that I was requested by Sir Edward Walsh and Sir A. Weldon, two magistrates of this district, to make a more searching inquiry into the state of the potatoes in the neighbourhood of the collieries than had hitherto been made. The instructions were, to make the examination by properties, and ruled forms were supplied by Sir A. Weldon, with such headings as he considered applicable to the case. "On Monday morning, the 9th, I proceeded to Wolfhill, accompanied by the Rev. Mr. Emerson, the clergyman of the parish, and commenced with the property of Mr. Hovenden. Mr. Hovenden himself being with us, we examined every house on the property, took down the number of each family, the quantity of potatoes planted, and the quantity (from actual inspection) now remaining on hands, with the quantity of oats or other grain now in the possession of the family. On Tuesday, we went over the property of Sir Charles Coote, adjoining Mr. Hovenden's, and also over Mr. Carter's, and, so far as time would admit, examined a few families on the property of Mrs. Kavanagh, of Gracefield. Our inquiries extended to about 190
 1012 "Others have lost nearly all; and the few that still remain are totally unfit for human food. In every instance where we saw potatoes in pits in the fields we had them examined, and, with scarcely an exception, we found them to be a mass of putrefaction, perfectly disgusting, even to look at. We examined a few houses on the property of Sir Thomas Esmonde, where the land is of much better quality, but the result was in every case the same. There are literally no potatoes remaining in that part of the country. "I understand the magistrates intend to meet on an early day, and make some representation, through the lieutenant of the county, on the above subject. "W. W. HEMSWORTH, "Sub-Inspector 1st Rate." "His Excellency will find in these statements an announcement of the alarming fact, that in two districts alone of the Union in question there are even at this early period of the year, no less than 300 persons whose stores of provisions are upon the point of becoming exhausted. In the meanwhile the rot is represented as making daily progress amongst the potatoes, which until lately it was hoped might have been preserved in a state of partial soundness for some time longer; and there is every reason, therefore, to anticipate that the distress now prevailing in certain localities will very speedily cause its pressure to be felt by the labouring classes throughout the Union. With this prospect in view, the probability is, that a rise in the price of all kinds of grain may be expected to take place in the course of the ensuing spring and summer months, although foreign supplies were to be admitted immediately duty free, and thus the facilities of providing food for the people in exchange for their labour be removed beyond the means which landed proprietors have at the present moment within their reach for this purpose. It is in these circumstances that I would venture respectfully to submit, as far as the interests of the county of Waterford are involved, that much good might be effected in keeping down prices by the establishment of Government corn stores from which grain might be purchased at first cost price in such towns as Youghal, Dungarvan, Waterford, Carrick, Clonmel, and, perhaps, Lismore. In all but the last mentioned of
 1013 "I regret to have to report, for the information of Government, that serious ravages have been made latterly on the potatoes by the disease which, for the last two months, was supposed at least not to be progressive. Having gone round my district within the last ten days, I have had opportunities not only of hearing, but of witnessing the destruction which has been committed, and which is gaining ground rapidly, contrary to the hopes which have been for some time cherished, as to excite the utmost alarm among all classes; and for my own part I feel almost confounded at the difficulty that must exist in procuring a sufficiency of good seed for the ensuing crop." "That in four electoral divisions the loss of potatoes has been nearly nine-tenths of the whole crop; in 93, between seven-tenths and eight-tenths; in 125, the loss approaches to seven-tenths of the whole crop; in 16, it approaches to six-tenths; in 596, nearly one-half of the crop is entirely destroyed; and in 582 divisions, nearly four-tenths of the crop are entirely destroyed." 1014 s. s. 1015 Cheers. 1016 s.; 1017 s. s., s. s. d.; s., s. d. s. d.; s., d.; s., d., 1018 1019 1020 Cheers from the Protection benches. 1021 1022 1023 "The conclusion to which I have come is that sanctioned by the authority of the late Lord Spencer and other practical agriculturists, and may be stated in the emphatic words of the  Agricultural Gazette: 1024 'Hence! avaunt! 'tis holy ground.'
 SIR R. PEEL : Then I admit at once to the hon. Gentleman that on that occasion he exhibited his qualifications for a leader, by his discretion in absenting himself from the discussion on grease. 1025
 SIR R. PEEL  continued: I now refer to the hon. Member's remarks relative to the article of flax. When a duty of 10 l.
 SIR R. PEEL : The last removal! why the last removal of duty was in 1842. And what was the amount of that duty? It was one penny on the hundred weight of foreign flax. Surely, that was no protection to the domestic produce of Chisselburgh and Aldcock, and the two Cockers. If these parishes have very recently ceased to cultivate flax, it has been for some better rea-
 1026 l. l. l. 1027 l. 1028 1029 s. s. 
 
 s. d. 
 1805 was 81 10½ 
 1815 was 97 6 
 1825 was 78 8 
 1835 was 56 7 
 1845 was 57 11 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. 1030 l. s. d. s. d., l. s. d.; l. 1031 Laughter Laughter. 1032 "I recommend you to take into your early consideration whether the principles on which you have acted may not with advantage be yet more extensively applied, and whether it may not be in your power, after a careful review of the existing duties upon many articles, the produce or manufactures of other countries, to make such further reductions and remissions as may tend to ensure the continuance of the great benefits to which I have adverted." 1033 "In compliance with Her Majesty's recommendation we will take into our early consideration whether the principles on which we have acted may not with advantage be yet more extensively applied, and whether it may not be in our power, after a careful review of the existing duties npon many articles, the produce or manufactures of other countries, to make such further reductions and remissions as may tend to ensure the continuance of the great benefits to which Her Majesty has adverted." 1034 —"invoke the wisdom of Parliament to check all further rash experiments on British navigation, and, as an earnest of its sympathy with a branch of commerce indissolubly connected with national defence, they implore your Honourable House to reject the proposition for reducing the duty on the importation of foreign timber from 25 s. s., 1035 s. s. s. s. s. s. s. "There is one branch of the timber trade which has this year been very scantily supplied with those woods adapted for the construction of ships of the first class. So trifling has been the supply, that at the present moment this, one of the greatest maritime ports in the world, is in the anomalous position of not having in stock a single log of foreign wood suitable for a twelve years' ship. There can be no question, therefore, of the policy which, by removal of duties, would encourage the supply of such woods from all parts of the world, and, at all events, admit, free of duty, all oaks, hard-woods, masts, spars, treenails, pitch, pine, and such woods as enter largely and almost exclusively into the construction of ships. As the Colonial timber trade, formerly encouraged by bounty, has at length arrived at its present enlarged state, it is surely not unreasonable now that the shipwright should have all restrictions removed, so as to receive from all parts of the world, at least in the unsawn state, whatever material he employs in the construction of ships, the great source of this country's wealth and power, and absolutely necessary for her national defence. The removal of all restrictions, and an economical mode of storing, would cause this to be one of the largest depots in the kingdom." 1036 bonâ fide 1037 d. d., d. 1038 l. s. l. s. l. s. "There were hundreds of thousands of poor honest men who knew nothing in the world of political economy, but who, because some very wise men had sprung up of late, were to be robbed of the earnings of their patient labours. There was to be only a duty of 30 per cent. protection against foreign competition. Would the House consent to a measure which must have the effect of driving all the workmen connected with it to the poor rates for subsistence? When the French manufacturer maintained—as he (Mr. Baring) contended he would—his superiority, what would become of his (Mr. Huskisson's) principles then? How was he to reconcile himself to the operation of a system which would drive to utter ruin and starvation the hundreds of thousands engaged in the silk trade throughout the United Kingdom?" 1039 "I have been assailed and distressed by ungenerous appeals to my feelings calling upon me to commune with my conscience and my God, and to say whether I am under no visitations of compunction and remorse. Good God! that man must have a heart of stone who can witness without sympathy and pain the distress which now exists among our manufacturers. I hope I am not wanting in the duties and feelings of a man. I have also a duty to perform as a Minister—to trace the causes of the present calamities, and to prevent, if possible, their recurrence." 
 
 He therefore persevered: he removed the duty; and what has been the result? Were hundreds of thousands of silk manufacturers thrown out of employment? Have the poor rates been burdened for their subsistence? Have we been unable to compete with foreigners? In the decennial period ending in 1823, the quantity of raw and thrown silk entered for home consumption was 19,409,023 lbs. 
 For the ten years ending 1833, immediately after the reduction of the duty 39,681,248 lbs. 
 For the ten years ending 1843 52,007,118 lbs. 
 The aggregate annual consumption of the successive decennial periods was 
 For the ten years ending 1823 1,940,000 lbs. 
 For the ten years ending 1833 3,968,124 lbs. 
 For the ten years ending 1843 5,200,711 lbs. 
 A further reduction of duty took place in 1842. The consumption, which for the ten years ending in 1823 was on the annual average 1,940,902 lbs. 
 For the single year 1844 6,208,021 lbs. 1040 s. "He has imported in one year '1845' from St. Petersburgh above 250 tons of feathers, and over 50 tons more from other places, Dantzic, Riga, Memel, and the Mediterranean; and, strange to say, so great has the demand become for feather beds, since they became cheap, that he purchased 150 tons also, in 1845, in Ireland, the growth of Ireland; and he is paying now 22s. 10d. per stone, showing an increased growth of 50 tons, and of price for the same article, while the great demand has enabled him to extend his concern and lessen his charges. He added that when provisions were cheap in Cornwall, the miners purchased a great deal of feathers." 1041 1042 1043
 SIR W. CLAY  said, the noble Lord the Member for West Sussex (the Earl of March) had described the present debate as one-sided. He thought this had partly arisen from the circumstance that, up to a recent period, the speeches of hon. Gentlemen on the other side consisted rather of attacks on the right hon. Gentleman and his Colleagues, than of arguments relating to their measure. In watching the course of this debate, he had been more than once reminded of the well-known anecdote of the country attorney, who, having no case, endorsed on the brief of the leading counsel, "No merits—abuse the plaintiff's attorney." Hon. Gentlemen seemed to forget that they were about to try an issue of importance, not only to this country, but to the world; for it really appeared that they thought they had done enough if they could show that the right hon. Gentleman's course was inconsistent with the policy he had once professed, and contradicted the principles which he had formerly advocated. Nothing, it seemed, was more amusing than personalities: that might be human nature, and assuredly it was the nature of the House of Commons. If in the library one chanced to hear a cheer unusually vehement and prolonged, one was sure to find on inquiry that some hon. Gentleman had said something unpleasant of some other hon. Gentleman. That might be all very amusing and very proper, but perhaps they had too much of it. They might be satisfied with the manner in which that debate had been conducted; but the world at large was not quite satisfied with it. People out of doors did not much admire that perpetual personal recrimination; and he ventured to say, that one single argument which would bear the shock of discussion—one solitary fact showing that the right hon. Gentleman ought not to take the course which he had taken — would have been worth, in the opinion of the public, all the torrents of invective which had been showered on his head. The fact was, that hon. Gentlemen had overdone the matter; they overstated their case, and proved too much against the right hon. Gentleman. For precisely in the degree they proved that he had broken up a noble party, and damaged himself irretrievably in the opinion of the public, precisely in that degree did they show that
 986 987 à priori 988 989 990 s. s.; s. s. s. s. s. 991 s.
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, his first view of the case had been in favour of the Amendment just proposed; but on consideration it occurred to him that, in justice to the parties whose petitions had first brought about the discussion, it could not be enforced. Had the enforcement of the Standing Order been in the first instance insisted on, those parties would have been enabled to amend their petitions, and put the name or short title of the Bill at the heads of them, so as to have presented them in time to be heard. But now, if they were precluded from a hearing, they would be too late to amend their error, or have their petitions brought forward again.
 MR. W. MILES : After the last removal of the duty on flax.
 MR. W. MILES  said, he had suggested that the duty on cattle should be regulated by weight, and not by numbers.
 MR. W. MILES  was understood to say that he had merely stopped the discussion at a late hour in order to obtain its adjournment, and was absent the next day.
 LORD JOCELYN : I regret to say that Ministers have no further information than what has already appeared in the public prints relative to the late transactions on the frontiers of our Indian possessions. No official despatches have been received by the authorities in this country from the Governor-General; but a private letter has come to hand from the Governor of Bombay, addressed to the noble Lord at the head of the department to which I belong. It inclosed a communication from the Governor-General, dated from Ferozepore on the 23rd of September, stating that between the 5th and 14th, large bodies of Sikh troops had invaded the country, in violation of the treaty of 1805, and menaced Ferozepore. They then attacked the advanced guard of the British forces, but were repelled, and the British troops were prevented from following them owing to the darkness of the night; they were consequently obliged to give up the pursuit. On the 21st the main body of the army moved against the enemy, the centre being led by the Governor-General, and the right by the Commander-in-Chief. The enemy had thrown up a fortified entrenchment, which was attacked, and the entrenchment was taken on the evening of the 21st. On the next morning a great number of the enemy's guns were captured, and the communication with Ferozepore was opened. We have no further communication than that private letter from Sir Henry Hardinge to the Governor of Bombay; but I have no doubt that in a few days we shall be in possession of information satisfactory to the country and to the hon. Baronet.
 MR. O'CONNELL  rose to call the attention of the House to the state of famine and disease in Ireland. His intention was to move—
 "That this House will, on Monday next, resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House, to take into consideration the State of Ireland, with a view to devise means to relieve the Distress of the Irish People;"— 1051 1052 "That the agricultural labourers of Ireland suffer the greatest privations and hardships; that they depend upon precarious and casual employment for subsistence; that they are badly housed, badly fed, badly clothed, and badly paid for their labour; that it would be impossible to describe adequately the sufferings and privations which the cottiers and labourers and their families in most parts of the country endure; that in many districts their only food is the potato, their only beverage water; that their cabins are seldom a protection against the weather; that a bed or blanket is a rare luxury; and that nearly in all,
 1053 1054 "Up to this period (they said) any improvement that may have taken place is attributable almost entirely to the habits of temperance in which they have so generally persevered, and not, we grieve to say, to any increased demand for their labour." "An account of the quantities of wheat, barley, oats, wheat flour, and oatmeal imported into Great Britain from Ireland, in the years 1842, 1843, 1844, and 1845, distinguishing the quantities in each year:— 
 
 Years. CORN OF IRISH GROWTH, 
 Imported into Great Britain from Ireland. 
 Wheat. Barley. Oats. Wheat Meal, or Flour. Oatmeal. 
 Quarters. Quarters. Quarters. Cwts. Cwts. 
 1842 112,195 50,287 1,274,326 314,311 1,551,172 
 1843 192,477 110,449 1,561,997 773,463 1,706,628 
 1844 200,276 90,656 1,509,870 839,567 1,150,976 
 1845 372,719 93,095 1,679,958 1,422,379 1,059,185 1055 "An account of all cattle, sheep, and swine, imported into Great Britain from Ireland, from the 10th day of October, 1845, to the 5th day of January, 1846. Oxen, bulls, and cows, 32,883; calves, 583; sheep and lambs, 32,576; swine, 104,141." "During our stay in Ireland, we carefully examined such official Papers as were transmitted to us from the Castle; we consulted persons acquainted with the facts of the disease; we visited the district lying between Dublin and Drogheda; and inspected various potato fields and stores in the counties of Dublin, Louth, Meath, Westmeath, and part of Kildare. Judging from the evidence thus collected, and, from what we have seen of the progress of the disease in England, we can come to no other conclusion than that one-half of the potato crop of Ireland is either destroyed or remains in a state unfit for the food of man. We, moreover, feel it our duty to apprize you, that we fear this to be a low estimate." "It appears from undoubted authority, that of 32 counties in Ireland, not one has escaped failure
 1056 
 
 PROPORTION OF POTATO CROP LAST YEAR. 
 Provinces. All. 9–10ths. 4–8ths. 5–4ths. 2–3rds. Halves. 1–3rds. 1–4ths. 1–5ths. 1–7ths. 1–8ths. 1–10ths. Total. 
 Ulster 6 1 3 15 37 133 32 6 … … 6 … 239 
 Munster … … 1 9 13 88 16 4 1 … 1 … 133 
 Leinster … 4 1 28 41 97 9 2 1 1 … … 199 
 Connaught … … 1 8 12 49 6 4 … … 1 … 81 1057 "Potatoes, I regret to say, from the progress of the rot, advanced a third; and this, as I stated a few days past, at a period when the rate of remuneration for agricultural labourers is 2⅞d. per day, and diet a few wet lumpers. This is low enough, but the tradesmen in this town are not earning that same. The inevitable consequence of this is already manifesting itself. Fever is on
 1058 "The wheat plants have made great progress during the month, and have a very healthy appearance, and the grass fields are as forward in their look as we often observe in March. We are sorry to observe so many of the potatoes, which were confidently relied upon for seed, giving way under the disease. Now, after having been subjected to pitting and housing, great quantities of them are found to be rotten; nor are those still in the ground much better, for although apparently sound, a few days after being dry they assume a very different aspect. We still fear the consequences at seed time. Many were disposed to try autumn or winter planting; but the weather has been very untoward for that purpose, and those who tried it report unfavourably of it, the excessive moisture having destroyed the seed." "I said in my last that the apple potatoes that were not rotted might be used for food. Our apples were as dry as possible when we pitted them, and we kept them dry by our manner of covering them. We thought we might have some for summer, but we find they are scarcely fit for cattle now, and more than half of them are completely in pulp. We cannot use any apple potatoes this year, and this is a general complaint here. The cups are not very much lost, but there are ten times more of them rotted than when I wrote last." "More than half the potato crop is unfit for human food, and the disease is progressing. More than half the labourers are unemployed, and are likely to continue so for the next three months, and during the months of July and August, as the farmers will not have money nor food to give them." "We continue to receive the most distressing
 1059 "During the month of January I had occasion to visit several districts in the counties of Down, Armagh, Antrim, and Monaghan, and I carefully inquired into the state of the potato crop. I found that though there was considerable difference in the amount of loss in the districts examined, yet that everywhere, with a few trifling exceptions in some moory soils in county Monaghan, the disease continued its destructive ravages, unchecked by any of the methods recommended to stop its progress; that in every description of pit, in the moist field, and the dry loft, the potatoes were, either as the farmers expressed it, 'melting away,' or 'shrivelling up with a dry rot.' In some districts in Armagh I was informed that the destruction was progressing with such terrible rapidity, that of potatoes raised, thrice picked, and stored up in pots as free from all taint, not more than one-third was found fit for use some days ago. In the neighbourhood of the city of Armagh, the extent of loss was represented as very great. In the neighbourhood of Markethill and Portadown the loss has been also very great, and will, I fear, be severely felt by the small farmers in that part of the country. In Monaghan I made particular inquiries from several farmers, among whom I may mention the name of Mr. Gowdy, one of the most intelligent agriculturists in the district in which he resides, and I found it to be the general persuasion, that fully two-thirds of the crop, at that time (6th of January), had been rendered unfit for food. Along the north-east coast again, in the neighbourhood of Larne, the destruction has also been great; and several Antrim farmers, whose names if required, can be supplied, have last week assured me that the stock of potatoes which they have at present on hand is not so large as they were in former years accustomed to have in the month of May." "A great many petty robberies are daily committed about the suburbs of Tullamore, from the great distress and poverty arising from want of
 1060 "It contains sixty-six families, comprising three hundred and seventy-four individuals, having out of their crop of ten hundred and ninety barrels of potatoes but one hundred and six barrels fit for human food. That in the townland of Doonbeg (same parish) there are forty-five families, comprising two hundred and seventy individuals, with but eighty-five barrels of good potatoes out of a crop containing six hundred and sixty-six barrels. That in the townland of Kilfeira (same parish) there are eighty-eight families, whose total produce of potatoes was fourteen hundred and fifty barrels, of which one hundred and eighty-seven barrels only were fit for human food. That in the townlands of Dunmore and Doonbeg (same parish) there are twenty-nine families, or one hundred and twenty-seven individuals, whose total produce was three hundred and seventy-two barrels, of which there were but fifty-eight barrels fit for human use. That in the townlands of Frureeree and Donoughboy at least three-fourths of the crop are lost." "The question of famine is no longer one of surmise. Its certainty, in a few months at furthest, is even acknowledged by the Government, and the reports which come in every day from the rural districts but too sadly confirm the conclusion which has been arrived at from the most carefully collected facts. Potatoes bear even now a famine price in the market. White potatoes go 4½d. per stone, and cup potatoes 5d. We believe 10d. per stone, in times of the greatest famine, was the highest price for potatoes ever known in Galway; and when we take into consideration that the potatoes now brought for sale to market are not only diseased to a great extent, but one-third of them completely waste to the purchaser in two or three days, the 4½d. per stone rises in real value to 9d. or 10d. When this is the case at present, what will it not be in a few weeks hence, when the crop is more exhausted? At the price which potatoes are even only now, a labourer employed the whole week at 10d. per day (the usual price of labour in this district is often lower) has to lay out the entire of his week's wages on them alone, if he is even so fortunate as to be able to purchase with it a sufficient quantity of this lowest of human food. There is nothing for any other accompanying article of diet; nothing, unless the belly is stinted of this worst kind of food: nothing for fuel, rent, or clothing; nothing for milk or fish; meat is out of the question. If this is the case at present with the labourer in full employment, how must it fare with the unfortunate creatures who have it only occasionally, or fare with both when food becomes dearer, and is placed totally out of their reach? A troop of the 13th Light Dragoons, from Gort, arrived here on Tuesday, under the command of Captain Hamilton, for the purpose, it is said, of repressing any outbreak among the people which may arise owing to the exportation of corn from this port. Two compa-
 1061 "At the weekly meeting of the Nenagh board of guardians on Thursday, 29th January, Sir T. B. Dancer said: I am sorry to say, at least of my own potatoes, that the disease is progressing; out of eight or nine acres of potatoes which were dug last week, I had four cartloads of them affected with the disease, and within the last fortnight nearly all my cups are failing, the one-third of them at least. In this month and next, which are generally soft months, I am of opinion that the great portion of the potatoes, now apparently sound, will become rotten or diseased. I have also inquired amongst my workmen and tenants, and they all bore the same testimony; and to show you as a proof of what I have stated, that when I lately found the disease so prevalent among my tenants' potatoes, I offered them 10 per cent allowance. "Mr. Michael Meagher: I am bound to tell you this—that for the last three days I had been in Borrisoleigh; it is strange to say that it is not the black potatoes are going, but the white and sound ones, which were heretofore not diseased, or affected with the regular lot. "Mr. John Kennedy: It is a general complaint that it is the sound potatoes that are failing under the malady, and not the black ones. "Sir Thomas Dancer: What do you call 'black ones?'—The previously diseased potatoes. "Mr. Hayes: There is no doubt but the disease is every day becoming more prevalent. "Chairman: I am afraid that the opinions of the guardians are unanimous on that subject; but as far as I am concerned myself, I can say to the contrary." "Mr. Trant, introducing his motion that a committee be appointed to draw up a memorial to his Excellency the Lord Lieutenant, on the subject of the expected famine, regretted to say that there was even then more reason for the board carrying out his motion than when he had given notice of it, for he could assure them that the disease was rapidly extending in his district. "Mr. Foran, the poor rate collector for the
 1062 "Mr. Quinlan thought that out of two farms of his he would not have a sound potato on May day. The spread of the disease was frightful. "Mr. Rae was sorry to be obliged to corroborate what had been said about the spread of the epidemic; and, to make the matter still worse, the late high tides had washed away a quantity of the potatoes of the poor people in his neighbourhood, the parish of Keel. "Captain Chute, Mr. Gorham, and other guardians, bore testimony to the spread of the disease. "Colonel Stokes could state, from personal knowledge, that labourers in the vicinity of the Spa were now purchasing potatoes in the market, not having any of their own. Lumper potatoes were selling at 24s. per peck. At the rate potatoes were selling on Saturday last, potatoes sufficient to support the family of a labouring man for a week would cost upwards of 6s., 2s. more than the entire week's wages of most labourers in employment. He might in the present season safely say that two-thirds of the labourers were unemployed. He had paid 12s. a peck for diseased potatoes to feed cattle, in the market last week, and good lumpers were 24s., and minions 32s. per peck. In conclusion, he urged on the Board the necessity of representing to Government that they were willing that a tax should be levied on the properties of gentlemen, both resident and absentee, to provide food for the poorer classes, in the event of a famine. "Mr. Trant's motion was seconded by Colonel Stokes, and passed, and a committee was appointed." "The Rev. Mr. Smiddy said: Mr. Chairman, as I am in possession of certain documents connected with the state of distress, I shall occupy your attention while making a few observations on the subject. A short time since, by order of the Poor Law Commissioners in Dublin, inquiries were made in several parts of the Union as to the state of the potato crop, the result of which was forwarded to the Poor Law Commissioners. This was set on foot here, and inquiries were very accurately and minutely instituted, and the result of that is such as to convince every person that something must be done in order to provide for the approaching season of want and scarcity. By this arrangement we had parties appointed in several districts of the country to inquire what supply of potatoes remained on hand, and what amount of labour or employment was available for the people; the result is that in the country parts of this parish the farmers have only a supply sufficient for their own consumption, with the exception of two or three farmers, one of whom would be able to send twenty barrels to market in case the present supply remain free from disease, and that farmer is from the neighbourhood of Windgap. We have procured accurate information in reference to those persons who are objects
 1063 
 
 Families. Persons. 
 That there are living in lanes 908 4,579 
 Living on charity 88 356 
 Employed only 3 months, and less 56 235 
 Ditto, four months 72 253 
 Ditto, five months 95 453 
 Ditto, six months 228 1,245 
 539 2,642 So that 539 families out of the 908, and 2,642 individuals out of the 4,579, are limited in employment, all to six months; many of them to three and four months of the year; and the wages, in many instances, so low as scarcely to give them subsistence, even for the time they are employed. This (continued the rev. gentleman), is a problem for the political economist; and a subject of serious reflection for all who are interested, not alone in the welfare, but in the actual existence of their fellow creatures. And such being the state of the distress, such being the amount of destitution, it is evident that something must be done, and done immediately, to remedy the awful circumstances of the people. "Mr. Lomaseny, though a resident in the town for thirty-six years, had no idea of the destitution which he saw in Donovan's-lane; in that place there were six individuals living upon a floor ten feet square; there was not as much straw for them to lie upon as would be allowed a favourite dog—the covering at night consisted of the remnant of one blanket, with clothes which they wore during the day! In other places similar sights were to be seen; similar, and perhaps, if possible, more frightful poverty was to be witnessed." Dublin Evening Post:
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I am far from complaining of the hon. and learned Member for taking this opportunity of speaking of what he considers to be the grievances of Ireland: so far from it, I could wish that the hon. and learned Gentleman would take every opportunity (whatever may be my opinion as to its fitness) of speaking in this House of anything which he may think a grievance in Ireland, and of stating in what respect he thinks the prosperity of Ireland may be improved. I am sure, and he has himself observed, that with regard to the present distress in Ireland, there is a disposition in this House to listen to any proposition that is calculated to relieve that distress; and I assure him that, whether in reference to the origin of grievances in former times, or whether in reference to the measures that may be taken to promote the good of Ireland, there will always be a disposition in this House to discuss the proposition fairly; and if we cannot find that other measures proposed are for the good of Ireland, I, for one, shall be ready to agree with him, if he can only show that his proposition is for the good of Ireland. I am very far from saying that a grant made to Ireland on the ground of her distress is to be regarded as a boon to Ireland. I consider this House, as representing the United Kingdom, is bound to consider every part of that kingdom; and if one part is more distressed, at any particular period, than another, it is the bounden duty of this House to attend to it, and there is no call upon that particular part to feel grateful to any other particular part. I own it appears to me that, so far, the measures of the Government have been judicious measures, avoiding the two evils, of neglect on the one hand, and that which is equally dangerous, the ostentatious display of relief on the other, which might have tended to augment the distress we are so anxious to relieve. This being my opinion, therefore, and thinking that the Government, having acted thus, will bring forward more extensive measures, if they should be necessary, in this confidence I recommend the hon. and learned Gentleman to withdraw his Motion; because, if, in his opinion, at any future time—a fort-
 1086
 LORD J. MANNERS : I know, Sir, under what a disadvantage a Gentleman rises to take a part in this momentous discussion, who cannot enlist heartily under either the blue banner of my hon. Friend the Member for Northamptonshire, or that of Her Majesty's Ministers and the hon. Member for Stockport; but who, regarding both as Englishmen, and both as really anxious to promote the best interests of the country, strives to the best of his ability to reconcile the contending forces, and to unite in one league of harmony and concord the conflicting elements of trade and agriculture. Knowing then that I cannot appeal to the excited feelings and animosities that prevail within as well as without these walls, and that my appeal must be to the calmer judgment of some less troublous time, I shall confine within the narrowest limits that which I have to say. Before entering into the main question, let me correct a misapprehension into which the noble Lord the Member for Lincolnshire fell the other night with respect to my hon. Friend the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs: quoting an isolated passage from a speech of my hon. Friend's on the Corn Law of 1842, the noble Lord placed him in the category of Ministerial converts; but my hon. Friend's speech was altogether a free-trade speech, in which he accepted that amended Corn Law as only an "instalment of justice." Sir, I have been much struck, in approaching the consideration of the question, with the very general inclination on both sides of the House to view the problem how a country is to be supplied with food, as one exclusively of political economy. Now I entertain great doubts whether such a question should be so argued; and, without referring to those English political economists of whose opinions the House must be satiated, I will take leave to cite the language of one who in Italian literature occupies the same rank
 1090 "The matter of corn is an affair of administration, and not of commerce, contrary to the other productions of the soil, such as wine, oil, &c.; because without these man can live, which is not the case with bread;"— "In these circumstances, with that wisdom which is worthy of a people free and thoughtful, the Government set about considering whence they might animate internal agriculture, and step by step diminish the need of foreign corn, in proportion as they augmented the produce of their own soil. It is sufficient for me to observe, that the material of which we are treating is an affair of administration, and not of commerce, and that no prudent Government will renounce it, because neither are the seasons always equal, nor are men always heroic." 1091 1092 1093 1094 1095 l. "We are not," say they, "insensible to the advantages of providing the benefit of cheap food for the population of these countries; and we think the safest means of doing this, is by affording every facility for developing the resources of our soil, and making its yield abundant by the encouragement of those engaged in its cultivation. A low fixed duty of about 5s. or 6s. would uphold British agriculture, whilst the protection would not be so great as to place the native corngrower beyond the risk of competion." Non meus hic sermo: 1096
 MR. LAWSON  wished to say a few words before the Motion was withdrawn. He wished to speak on the subject as an independent Member of the House, for he hoped he had established his perfect independence there. He was then without alliance or connexion with any leader in that House, and he desired to state his opinions in a few words. He did not, when he entered the House, contemplate making any observation upon the particular question which had been brought under the notice of the House by the hon. and learned Member for Cork; but after the statements which had been made by the hon. Member, and also by the hon. Member for Kilkenny, who succeeded him, he felt himself constrained to trouble them with a few observations, and perhaps he might be a little more loquacious than he had hitherto been, not only upon the question referred to, but also on the general question under the consideration of the House. He felt himself the more obliged to state his opinions, since they, on his side of the House, found that all the opinions of the leaders in whom they placed confidence had been overthrown; and he found that each one had to judge for himself. He should therefore state, very shortly, but very sincerely, the opinions he entertained with regard to Ireland. He thought, as regarded the question of famine that had been brought before them, there was no one on his side of the House who did not sincerely lament the sad position of Ireland, as it had been detailed by the hon. and learned Member for Cork—who, he thought, in the observations he had made, had displayed great good taste and feeling, as he had not interwoven with those observations much of political matter, except in so far as regarded the social welfare of Ireland. In following out as far as he was able the remarks of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, he should
 1087 1088 l. l. l.
 CAPTAIN LAYARD  observed, that whatever might be the opinion formed by some hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House, concerning the great question proposed to their consideration by the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government, looking upon it, as he did, as a question of vital importance—as a question by which the great principles of free trade were at once to be established; or, should the measure be rejected, for some time delayed (for he was one of those who never had the smallest doubt that free trade must ultimately succeed), it was his intention to give his warmest support to this great and beneficial measure; and he earnestly trusted that hon. Gentlemen would well and deeply consider the fearful responsibility that would attach to them if they any longer banded themselves together, and, under the cry of protection to native industry, tried to main-
 1097 l. l. 1098 "A singing man and cannot sing! No need to thank your patron's bounty:" "Excuse me, sir, if I can't sing, My voice is in another county." 1099 1100
 MR. SHAW  accepted the invitation of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. O'Connell) to approach that question without irritation or party spirit. He would not willingly say a word that could check the sympathies of the House or the Government towards his poor and always suffering fellow countrymen; but, as the question of the potato failure in Ireland had become so prominent in the debates of the House, and so paramount in influencing the measures of the Government, he thought it right to inform the House of the real facts of the case, as he believed them to be, without adding to or taking from them. The statement of the hon. and learned Gentleman must be borne in mind, that there was scarcely a season in Ireland, especially towards its close, that there was not scarcity and consequent distress in many parts of the country. The Poor Law Commissioners had, as quoted by the hon. and learned Gentleman, reported, that for some portions of every year, upwards of two millions of the population were without the means of procuring food, and in a state of destitution. That there would be an aggravation of the usual periodical distress during the ensuing season, he grieved to say he could not doubt; but still he was bound to add, that he considered very exaggerated statements had been put forth, and undue alarm excited on the subject. He desired to speak with great
 1076 1077
 MR. SHAW  said, that unaffectedly, if he were to consult only his own feelings, he would much rather have taken no part in that debate. In every view that he could regard the subject to which it related, and the circumstances under which it had been brought forward, they were painful and repulsive—they brought personal friendships and party predilections into direct collision with public duty, and left him but the alternative of perfect silence, or a condemnation of those men, whom, for the sixteen years that he had then been in public life, he had followed and esteemed. The conviction, however, that not only the measure itself, but, above all, the means by which it was about to be carried, would more injuriously affect Ireland than any part of the United Kingdom—as well as the pecu-
 1114 1115 1116 1117 "A thousand years scarce serve to form a State, An hour may lay it in the dust." petitio principii, 1118 "The breezy call of incense-breathing morn," 1119 1120 1121 1122 in extremis; 1123
 MR. G. W. HOPE  wished merely to state, without offering any opposition to the Motion, that the vessel alluded to was a remarkably well found ship. She had an experienced captain, and her owners were most respectable. It should also be remembered that out of above 50,000 persons carried out to the Australian Colonies, under a similar system, the unfortunate case under consideration was the very first loss that had been sustained.
 MR. G. HUDSON : In rising, Sir, to state the views which I entertain on this important question, I think I may fairly bespeak the indulgence of the House, for though I am in the habit of addressing public meetings, I am now about to speak on a question of great importance in an assembly with the forms of which I am imperfectly acquainted. Sir, I must say, in the first instance, that I have not been returned for a pocket borough—and that I came here on as independent grounds as the hon. Gentleman who last addressed the House. I will go further, and say that to the constituency who elected me, I can go back with as much confidence, and as much honesty of purpose, as that hon. Gentleman can revisit those whom he represents. Sir, this is a subject to which I have given the deepest consideration. Before I had the honour of being a Member of this House, I read with the greatest interest the speeches of the right hon. Baronet, and thought upon them as an individual who had a right to feel deeply in the welfare of his fellow men. I have listened with the closest attention to the speeches of the right hon. Baronet since I entered
 1134 1135 l., 1136 s. 1137 s. s. s. s. s. s. s. 1138 s. s., s. s., 1139 s. 1140 l. l. 1141 l. 1142 1143 s. s. s. s. s. 1144
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that he had hoped when the hon. Member for Bristol moved his Amendment, that they were to have the question of protection discussed; that when the right hon. Baronet moved that proposition which had been so often and so ably brought forward by his hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton, they were to have the whole question fairly gone into, as being that about which the country really cared; for he would assure hon. Gentlemen opposite, that they never committed a greater mistake than in imagining that the great body of the people cared one farthing about the quarrel in the great Conservative patty. He had been an attentive listener during the debate, and had endeavoured to find out any reasons which might be alleged in favour of agricultural protection. The hon. Member for the University of Dublin would forgive him if he did not attempt any answer to his arguments; as, if he was not mistaken, this was a discussion on the merits of protection, and on these merits the hon. Gentleman had said not one syllable. He passed, then, to the speeches of those Members who had at all grappled with the question. The hon. Member for Bristol said, that the farmers of England would not consent to sell cheap corn, and buy dear sugar; and the hon. Member for Lincolnshire had stated that the Colonies of England had been protected at a heavy expense to the English farmer. From this he gathered it to be the opinion of hon. Gentlemen opposite, that it was not fair to give protection to the colonial sugar grower if protection were withdrawn from the British grower of corn. He admitted it most freely. If this great inroad were to be made upon protection, the principle must be extended to all—manufacturers, agriculturists, and colonists. If, then, it were unfair to protect sugar and not corn, it must be clear that if there were any industry to which the Government did not now afford protection, that the protection which it extended to agriculture
 1124 1125 1126 s. s. s. s. 1127 s. 1128 l. 1129 1130 programme Times. 1131 1132 s. s. 1133
 MR. O'CONNELL  said that, after what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet (Sir
 1089
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, he had always voted for a repeal of the Corn Laws, for he thought such a course demanded by the claims of humanity and justice. It was not likely, then, that he should wantonly throw impediments in the way of the great measure then before the House. He did not doubt that the measure would be beneficial to the Empire and to Ireland in its ultimate results. But no doubt the immediate benefits flowing from it would be most felt by the people of England, and not by those of Ireland, who were without the means to purchase bread. If any failure, too, should take place in the effects prognosticated from this measure, from the monopoly which Ireland had enjoyed in supplying food to this great market, she must suffer most severely. He did not believe that such failure would occur; still so long as the issue was in any uncertainty, it was natural the Irish people should wish that measures calculated to provide against any evils that might accrue, should meet their share of discussion. He therefore should be pardoned if he asked the House to delay a little upon these. With regard to the arguments of the learned Recorder against the existence of any failure of the potato crop in Ireland, he left the quarrel to be settled between the right hon. Gentleman and the Government. The official documents brought forward by Government corroborated the statements made on his (Mr. J. O'Connell's) side of the House; and until the right hon. Gentleman could invalidate those documents, they must be taken as
 1078 1079 1080 "State necessities" (the disasters in America in 1779) "acting under a sense of political danger, yielded without grace that which good sense and good feeling had before recommended in vain; and in 1782, under a like pressure, these concessions were made irrevocable." 1081 1082 l. l.; l., l. 1083 l. 1084 1085
 MR. O'CONNELL  proposed to withdraw the Motion.
 MR. HUME  moved for—
 "Copies of all Reports and Correspondence respecting the loss of the emigrant ship Cataraque, in Bass's Straits, in August last, having 369 emigrants on board;" also a "Copy of the Report of the Officer at Liverpool, on the state of the Cataraque before sailing from Liverpool in April, 1845, and what the length of Contract: Whether the captain and mate had passed any examination, and how long the captain had been at sea." 1050
 MR. R. PALMER  rose for the purpose of expressing the opinions of the constituency he had the honour to represent, and with whom he entirely concurred on this
 1101 Hansard "I think the agriculture of this country is entitled to protection, and that it is so entitled to protection from considerations of justice as well as policy. I do consider that there are special and peculiar burdens on agriculture. I do believe that that portion of the Act which imposes burdens for the relief of the poor, and subjects the profits of trade to those burdens, as well as the profits of agriculture, has not, so far as the profits on trade are concerned, been acted on, whilst it has been acted on with respect to the profits on agriculture. I say, on that ground, that I think there are special burdens applicable to agriculture. I think also that there are restrictions on the application of capital as concerns agriculture. I think, therefore, that considerations of justice do entitle agriculture to protection. I think that considerations of policy, so far as the general interest of all classes is concerned, justify this protection." "I repeat the declaration I made at the commencement of the Session on the part of the Government, that we do not intend, and have not intended, to diminish the protection which the existing Corn Laws give to agriculture." 1102 1103 1104 "Let bread," he said, "be the produce of your own soil. I care not how cheap it is; it is cheap now; and the cheaper it is the better. But let us have a sufficiency of our own growth for our own purposes, as far as possible. And, in order that we may ensure the continuance of that cheapness and sufficiency, we must ensure to the home grower that protection which has contributed to produce them." 1105 1106 s. s. "It appeared to him that for a State of the power and the magnitude of Great Britain, deliberately and voluntarily to place itself in a state of dependence on foreign Powers for its daily food, was the most foolish thing that could be imagined. It was like placing the country in a state of siege—all the supplies were to be drawn from without, and if they were stopped there would be a state of dearth which would lead to absolute desperation, and there would be this destruction if our supplies could be cut off by any foreign Power. If we placed ourselves in that position, there were enemies so jealous of us, that they would readily cut off the supplies, and reduce us to the greatest extremity; and when he heard such a proposition pressed, he could but consider it most dangerous and most unwise. After all, it was not in the power of any human legislation to prevent occa-
 1107 "Now, if you are right in maintaining that the shores of the Baltic will afford our chief supply, and if in reliance on that supply we diminish materially the production of corn at home, the misfortune of a generally deficient harvest may involve us in the greatest peril. In ordinary seasons we may safely trust to a regular supply from abroad, and the discouragement of home production may not be seriously felt; but if the common calamity should arrive (and Mr. Tooke and the highest authorities show that it ought to be foreseen), then we may have cause bitterly to repent our loss of independence, and to find that the encouragement we gave to home production, by restrictive duties, was a provident insurance against the dangers of famine." 1108 s. s., 1109 "If they desired a low price of corn, let them declare their intention, and he would tell them that their object was to reduce the rate of wages; for low wages would certainly be the result of the low price of corn." 1110
 MR. T. S. DUNCOMBE , in pursuance of the Notice he had given, rose to ask leave to bring in a Bill to amend an Act of the fourth and fifth year of his late Majesty Will. IV., relating to friendly societies, in order to give protection to those very valuable institutions. The first Act that had been passed for the regulation of those societies was the 10th Geo. IV., cap. 56, which was amended by the 4th and 5th Will IV., cap. 40. The object of those Acts was declared to be to give greater security and power to extend the objects of friendly societies for any purposes which "were not illegal." Now it would appear to every one not learned in the law, that those words were sufficiently comprehensive; but he was sorry to say, that very lately a doubt had arisen upon the subject, in consequence of a case which had been tried in the Court of Queen's Bench, in which Mr. Justice Wightman had pronounced judgment. That judgment had had the effect of paralysing the certificate given to those societies. The case had
 1049
 SIR C. NAPIER  had hoped that after the able, brilliant, heart-stirring, and unanswerable speech of the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury, the hon. Members opposite would have allowed the debate to come to a conclusion that evening. He feared, however, from what had fallen from the noble Lord the Member for Newark, that if it was still the intention of hon. Members to proceed with that debate, they would no doubt, follow out the same course of invective in which they had hitherto indulged against the right hon. Baronet, in the vain hope of inducing the right hon. Baronet to alter his mind, and adopt another course. He was glad that the hon. Gentleman who had last addressed the House, had not spoken in the same bitter tone of feeling as the other hon. Members who had spoken on the same side. The great complaint that hon. Gentlemen had made against the right hon. Baronet was, that he had proposed a new Corn Law in consequence of the state of the potato crop in Ireland, and the depression and distress which were soon to follow it. But he did not see why the right hon. Baronet was to be blamed alone. The right hon. Baronet at the head of the Home Department had changed his mind as well as the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War had followed in their wake; and he believed that the Chancellor of the Exchequer was of the same opinion as the right hon. Baronets. The rest of the Cabinet had also followed the right hon. Baronet in adopting the just and popular view which he had taken. Why, then, was the censure of hon. Gentlemen reserved for the right hon. Baronet? He wondered that they had not blamed hon. Gentlemen on the Opposition side of the House, who, having formerly been advocates for a fixed duty, now agreed in opinion with the noble Lord the Member for London, and thought that the time was come for a total repeal of the Corn Laws. He was surprised that this change had called forth no expressions of astonishment or indignation from those hon. Gentlemen who ploughed with the same horses which they had yoked together twenty or thirty years ago. Had not the right hon. Baronet told the House over and over again, that on the 1st of November he proposed
 1111 1112 Laughter. 1113 l.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  hoped that if the hon. and learned Gentleman believed the Government to be intent on providing every remedy that could be expected or was necessary, he would not press his Motion on the present occasion, but consent to leave it in the hands of the responsible advisers of the Crown.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said: I am sure I express the general sense of the House when I declare that the hon. and learned Gentleman, in bringing forward this subject, is entitled to the respectful attention of every hon. Member. The state of Ireland at the present moment deserves the anxious and serious attention of Parliament; and
 1069 1070 1071 1072 l. l. l.; l. l. l. l. l., l.; l. 1073 l. 1074 1075
 MR. MOFFATT  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to alter and amend the Act 1 and 2 Victoria, c. 117, commonly known as the Railway Deposits Act. The hon. Member stated that the principal alterations which he proposed to effect in the provisions of the Act were, firstly, to empower subscribers
 1145
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had no objection to the introduction of the Bill by the hon. Member; but it must be understood that he could not pledge himself to support the details.
 MR. MANNERS SUTTON  thought it would hardly be wise to raise any discussion on the subject referred to by the hon. and gallant Member at the present moment. If the hon. and gallant Member had given him notice of the question he intended to put, he (Mr. M. Sutton) would have been prepared with a reply. He was at present unable to give an answer, but he would make inquiry.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  moved for a Return of the copy of any Instructions issued by the Poor Law Commissioners for the purpose of uniting the parish of Farnham, in Surrey, now under Gilbert's Act, with certain other parishes under the Poor Law Act; also, for a copy of any memorial to the Poor Law Commissioners from the ratepayers of the parish of Farnham remonstrating against such union or any interference whatever. The hon. and gallant Member said he had given notice of his intention to move for this return, in consequence of the extraordinary proceedings of the Poor Law Commissioners. The parish of Farnham was a single parish under Gilbert's Act, and that Act had been shown to work satisfactorily in it. The law, under certain circumstances, permitted a single parish to subsist without being annexed to a Poor Law Union; and, considering that the Report of the Parliamentary Committee relative to the Gilbert Unions had been carried only by the casting vote of the chairman against the Gilbert incorporations, it did appear extraordinary that this unfortunate parish should be taken out of them to be made the centre of a Poor Law Union. He contended that this certainty should not take place until a searching inquiry had been made into the working and operation of the Poor Law Act. He could not see the policy or expediency of the Government meddling with a parish, the management of which had been so satisfactory that it had not been considered necessary to bring it before the Gilbert Unions Committee. To annex it to a Poor Law Union without inquiry was, to say the least, most extraordinary. Great dissatisfaction existed at it; the inhabitants had met; and they had unanimously agreed
 1146
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  asked Her Majesty's Government whether it was their intention to lay upon the Table copies of the Papers received from those guardians of Poor Law Unions who had remonstrated against the practice of bone grinding? The right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) had informed the House, on a late occasion, that there were nine boards of guardians who had expressed a wish to continue the practice until their stocks had been exhausted, and that he had given them the desired permission. He now wished to know, also, when the Papers relative to those nine cases, which the right hon. Baronet had promised, would be laid upon the Table.
 MR. TOLLEMACHE  wished to know whether in the Bill referred to it was intended to provide, that in the case of a man who could prove five years' industrial residence, his wife and family were to be allowed to follow the same settlement?
 MR. COLLETT  said, before offering to the House the few observations with which he should trouble it, he had to move that the Clerk at the Table should read the Standing Order embodied in the Motion of which he had given notice. Sessional Resolutions respecting Interference of Peers at Elections read, as follows:—
 "Resolved—That no Peer of this Realm, except such Peers of Ireland as shall for the time being be actually elected, and shall not have declined to serve, for any county, city, or borough of Great Britain, hath any right to give his vote in the Election of any Member to serve in Parliament. "That it is a high infringement of the liberties and privileges of the Commons of the United Kingdom, for any Lord of Parliament, or other Peer or Prelate, not being a Peer of Ireland at the time elected, and not having declined to serve for any county, city, or borough of Great Britain, to concern himself in the Election of Members to serve for the Commons in Parliament, except only any Peer of Ireland, at such Elections in Great Britain respectively, where such Peer shall appear as a Candidate, or by himself, or any others, be proposed to be elected; or for any Lord Lieutenant or Governor of any county to avail himself of any authority derived from his Commission, to influence the Election of any Member to serve for the Commons in Parliament."
 MR. COLLETT  then proceeded to say, that if on general occasions he was an advocate for short speeches, and for the propriety of Members not intruding longer than was necessary on the time of the House, he was sure that the present was not an occasion on which he should have either necessity or disposition to depart from so wholesome and so much to be encouraged a line of conduct. The task which he had undertaken he should much prefer to have fallen into abler and more experienced hands than his own—into those, for instance,
 1168 1169 "Merciful Heaven! Thou rather with thy sharp and sulphurous bolt Split'st the unwedgable and gnarled oak Than the soft myrtle; but man, proud man— Drest in a little brief authority— Most ignorant of what he's most assured, His glassy essence—like an angry ape, Plays such fantastic tricks before high heaven As make the angels weep." 1170 "Whereas, the House of Commons has received information that letters from Peers are directed to boroughs that now are to make elections of Members to serve in this Parliament, they conceive that
 1171 nem. con. "That no Peer of this kingdom hath any right to give his vote at the election for any Member to serve in Parliament." "That for any Peer of this kingdom, or any Lord Lieutenant of any county, to concern themselves in the elections of Members to serve for the Commons in Parliament, is a high infringement of the liberties and privileges of the Commons of England." "That the Earl of Peterborough be admitted and heard." 1172 "That Charles, Earl of Peterborough, is guilty of many indirect practices in endeavouring to procure Daniel Part to be elected a burgess for Malmesbury, in the county of Wilts." "That the Bishop of Worcester sent for me to desist from standing for knight of the county, and to threaten, if I would not desist, to speak against me to his clergy. Secondly, he sent letters himself, and his secretary sent others, to the clergy, with directions to make what interest they could against me in their parishes; and where they could not prevail to vote for other candidates to desire them to stay at home; and in order to this the bishop sent copies of the poll of their respective parishes. Thirdly, he aspersed me to his clergy, branding me and my ancestors with vices, and at confirmation and visitation desired his clergy to vote against me, as unfit to serve in Parliament, and threatened them with displeasure if they did not vote against me. Fourthly, aspersed me and my ancestors to several of the laity, his tenants, and threatened if they did not vote against me never to renew any estate under him, and that he would set such marks upon them that his successors should not suffer them or their children to renew any more. Fifthly, Mr. Lloyd, the bishop's son, aspersed me and gave scandalous characters of me to several freeholders whom he solicited to vote against me, and told them I voted for bringing in a French Government. Sixthly, the bishop's secretary aspersed me to several freeholders in like manner, representing me as unfit to sit in the House, threatening them with the bishop's displeasure, and said they might as well vote for the Prince of Wales as for me." nem. con. "The proceedings of the said bishop and his son and agents in order to hinder the election of a Member for the county of Worcester have been malicious, unchristian, and arbitrary, and in high violation of the liberties and privileges of the Commons of England." "That it appears to this House that William Lord Bishop of Carlisle hath dispersed several copies of a letter pretended to have been received from Sir James Montague, in order to procure Sir James to be elected for Carlisle, and by concerning himself in the said election has highly infringed
 1173 "That it appears to this Committee that James Bridges, Duke of Chandos, a Peer of Parliament, and Lord Lieutenant of the county of Southampton, has concerned himself in an election of knight of the shire for the said county." "That it is the opinion of this Committee that James Bridges, Duke of Chandos, Peer of Parliament, &c., has been guilty of a breach of the privileges of this House, and an infringement of the liberties and privileges of the Commons of Great Britain." nem. con. "That it be referred to the consideration of the Committee of Privileges to examine the matter of the said complaint, and to report the same, with their opinion thereon, to the House." "That it appears to this Committee that an illegal agreement has for some time existed between the most noble George Frederick, Duke of Leeds, and the greater part of the members of the corporation of the borough of Helston, in relation to the return of Members to serve in the Commons, &c., for the said borough, in violation of the freedom of election, and contrary to the Standing Orders of this House, and the laws of this realm, for the prevention of bribery and corruption." "That Mr. Attorney-General do forthwith prosecute George Frederick, Duke of Leeds, for his said offence;"— 1174 Dodd's Parliamentary Companion for 1175 "THE PREMIER AND HIS SUBORDINATES.—Lord Arthur Lennox resigned his seat for Chichester at the request of his brother, the Duke of Richmond, in consequence of having expressed his determination to vote for the alteration of the Corn Laws, and ultimately for their total repeal. When Lord Arthur Lennox acquainted Sir Robert Peel with the position he was placed in by the Duke of Richmond's request, he tendered his resignation of Clerk of the Ordnance, which Sir Robert Peel refused to accept, observing, 'that it was quite enough to forfeit his seat in the House of Commons without giving up his situation, and begged that he would attend to the duties of his office, and that he (Sir Robert Peel) would move the Ordnance Estimates in the House of Commons.' This act of kindness is highly commended by all parties." "CHICHESTER ELECTION.—This miserable farce was enacted on Tuesday. Chichester is a cathedral town, and is completely under the influence of the Duke of Richmond; it was not, therefore, surprising if Lord Henry Lennox, the Duke's second son, should walk over the course. This young sprig of nobility is about as well adapted for a teacher of the Chinese language as for a legislator; and Chichester disgraces itself by allowing the Duke thus to dispose of its representation." 1176 Dodd's Parliamentary Companion,
 MR. WILLIAMS  said, that he had come down to the House not expecting to be called upon to speak, and still less to second the Motion of his hon. Friend. He had supposed that the noble Marquess (the Marquess of Chandos) the Member for Buckingham, or the noble Lord (Lord H. Lennox) the Member for Chichester, would have been eager to come forward to second the Motion for inquiry. They must be anxious that these grave charges should be investigated against other noble Dukes, and still more against their noble fathers. He had expected also, that some Member of Her Majesty's Government would have attempted some answer to a proposition of so much importance, involving a deep stain on the character of the House of Commons. When a similar Motion was made by the late Mr. Maddox, charging that the House of Commons was to a great extent elected by the corrupt and coercive influence of certain Peers, the Minister of the Crown, the late Lord Castlereagh, stood up in his place in front of the Treasury bench, and contended that such a Committee was totally needless on account of the notoriety of the fact, that under
 1182 regime 1183
 MR. COLLETT  expressed his willingness to comply with the request of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), and withdraw the Motion. He did so the more readily because his purpose in some part had been answered by the discussion which had taken place.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he had given notice of a question with respect to Papers connected with the recent proceedings in Buenos Ayres; it was not clear to him what was the origin of that war, nor in what manner the instructions sent out there had been executed. He wished to know whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to lay any further Papers on the Table of the House by which the relations between the Argentine Republic and this country could be more satisfactorily explained?
 LORD J. RUSSELL  would defer his Notice in order to wait the arrival of further intelligence.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  spoke as follows: If, Sir, I, who have always been a firm and consistent supporter of free-trade principles since I have had the honour of a seat in this House—if I have hitherto abstained from taking an active part in this debate, I can assure the House that it was not from any fear of any new arguments that have been brought forward by the native talent arrayed on the protection benches opposite. But, Sir, if I have hitherto abstained from mixing in this debate, it was from the firm conviction that our arguments on this side of the House were unanswered, and had proved unanswerable; and because I felt they had been triumphant out of doors—triumphant in and over the Cabinet: and I also hope I may add, that they are likely soon to be triumphant within the walls of this House. I have listened as patiently as I could during the six nights of this protracted debate, and I have not heard one new argument in favour of protection. I have heard much of personal attack; some lugubrious orations about the breaking up of a great party; some very curious statistics; and last, not least, some very newfangled doctrines touching political honour and political consistency, which I beg to assure my hon. Friend the Member for Northampton (Mr. S. O'Brien) are not to be found in Adam Smith, nor in any dictionary of political economy; and not being so to be found, appear to me to have but very little to do with this great question. I heard, Sir, several noble Lords, and several hon. Gentlemen, who had been constantly brought down to swell Ministerial majorities for the last three years, and who had assisted the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) on more than one occasion in his gradual abstraction of protection, quite alarmed and astonished at the success of their own efforts in favour of free trade. I heard one Member for Liverpool (Sir H. Douglas) denounce the right hon. Baronet as a wolf. I heard a noble Lord (Lord Sandon) the other Member for Liverpool say, it was very true the Minister was a wolf, but he should vote for the wolf because he was a wolf in sheep's clothing. This drew down on him a rebuke from my hon. Friend the Member for Somersetshire
 1191 Hansard. feelosophy 1192 sey Ha'ant d., d., 1193 "He (Mr. Hudson) conceived, that in dealing with the Corn Laws, they had nothing whatever to do with the calamity that threatened the country. He viewed it with regret and anxiety—he was anxious to aid in alleviating it. It ought, in his opinion, to be met by the temporary expedient of a public subscription." 1194 s. s. s. 1195 "It was not now supposed that the object sought to be accomplished by this alteration of the Corn Law, was the mean, base, and paltry one of getting for a particular class of society a certain profit, at the expense of the rest. For his part, he declared before his God, if he thought this was the motive
 1196 Cheers. 1197
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  apologized, if he had overstated the meaning of the hon. Gentleman, and was delighted to hear his
 1198
 Mr. HENRY BERKELEY : I might have been unwilling to obtrude myself upon the House in this protracted debate, had it not been for the prominent position in which my hon. Colleague has placed himself by moving the Amendment. I find myself called upon to make some remarks on the subject, and I intend to con-find myself as much as possible to the line of argument adopted by my hon. Colleague. My hon. Colleague has thrust himself into the front of the protectionist army. Whether he has achieved this greatness willingly, or it is greatness thrust upon him, we have no right to inquire; but there I find him, pleading the cause of protection sternly and stiffly. My hon. Colleague argues, "There was no special necessity for the measure." My hon. Colleague observes, "Even the hon. Member for Wolverhampton must be astonished at the miraculous conversion of some of his new coadjutors, who were now prepared to substitute for their own the opinions of the Member for Stockport;" and my hon. Colleague winds up his determined protectionist speech
 1222
 MR. TOLLEMACHE  said, that surely the speech of the hon. Member who had
 1224 1225 1226 1227
 SIR T. ACLAND  was very glad, as a Member of that body which was the subject of the hon. Gentleman's remarks, to have an opportunity of responding, as he hoped many others could, with the utmost sincerity, to the last appeal which that hon. Gentleman had made to the agricultural interest. If they found they were the advocates of error, though it was an error which they had shared in common with many others much their superiors in ability, and which had been received as truth for generations—if they found that a course contrary to that hitherto pursued was really fraught with blessings, he did believe that, one and all, they would not only acknowledge their error, but cheerfully acquiesce in the decision of Parliament; and whether the measure of the right hon. Baronet proved to be for the immediate advantage of the country or not—whether they were called upon to meet that measure as a benefit or as a misfortune, they would, above all, do their duty to their country and to the interest with which they were connected, so that the legislation now in prospect might not be turned to the injury of either. But when the hon. Gentleman used the epithets "ignorant and bigoted," in speaking of the agriculturists, he begged to remind the hon. Gentleman, of what indeed the hon. Gentleman had unconsciously shown he recollected, that they had an excuse for their error. The hon. Gentleman had reminded them that they were merely continuing in the belief which had been propagated, and persevering in the advocacy of that law which had been passed in 1842, by the very persons who now proposed its repeal, whom the hon. Gentleman described as being the first to discern the new light, and who now, for the first time, propounded in that House those great truths which he charitably allowed that the party he had attacked were yet incapable of seeing. For one, he acknowledged that such was his unhappy fate; and he hoped the House would give him credit for sincerity when he assured them that never, since he first took his seat in Parliament, that is, in 1812, more than thirty years ago, had he endeavoured
 1237 s. s. s. s. s. s., s., 1238 s. s. s. dictum 1239 s. s. 1240 s. d. s. s. s. d.; s. d.; s. 1241 l.; l. 1242 1243 1244 l., l., 1245 1246
 MR. BINGHAM BARING  said, the hon. Member for Devonshire had expressed the opinion that, sooner or later, this question would be carried. He should like to ask the hon. Baronet how much longer he wished the question to be agitated? Did he remember the Reform Bill? Did he know that if it had been settled betimes, they would never have had the heartburnings which had followed it? Did he remember the Catholic Relief Bill? The measure of Emancipation began under Pitt as a party squabble; but at last it grew into a national quarrel, and God only knew where that quarrel would end! And did he wish that this subject, which at present was a mere topic disputed in clubs—did he wish that it should sink into men's hearts, and become a contest of classes—classes of property and of intelligence, each appealing to the passions and the prejudices of the people? Let them look at the history of the Corn Laws. He would not go back to those times when the Corn Laws were rather intended to regulate exports than imports—when they prevented the producer from selling in the dearest market, rather than the consumer from buying in the cheapest; but he would go at once to 1815. Previous to that, in the period of war, prices had risen, and a difficulty was found to provide food for the people. The landed interest was encouraged by all classes to invest their money in extending the cultivation of the poor lands. When peace came, and with it an influx of foreign corn, the nation, acting freely, and with the consent of all the leading statesmen of the day—the nation willingly consented to take upon itself the burden of the Corn Laws; and with a view to prevent the land going out of cultivation, and the labourer being thrown out of employment, these laws had been continued to the present day. But could they still be justified on that plea? That was the question. Could it be proved that it was now impossible to dispense with protection? He denied that it could. He thought he could prove that they might now dispense with protection; and if he
 1248
 LORD A. PAGET  had listened with a good deal of attention to the debate as it had gone on, and he confessed he thought that a good many Gentlemen had been rather hard upon the right hon. Gentleman. He was convinced that nothing but a sense of public duty could have induced the right hon. Baronet to have brought forward the present measure. He had been at the head of a large and a united party; now, whether he went east, west, north, or south, nothing but the renegade Minister was talked about. He thought that the right hon. Baronet was one of the greatest instances of sacrifices of self that had ever been made from conscientious motives. He quite agreed that the noble Lord the Member for London would have been the proper person to have brought forward this Motion. He had had the honour of supporting the noble Lord since he had been in Parliament, and he hoped that he should long have that pleasure; his undoubted bravery and manly straightforward conduct entitled him to their highest regards. He should give the right hon. Gentleman's measure his most cordial support. He had belonged for several years to that forlorn hope which went out annually with his hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. Villiers); but now he was glad to say that their position was altered. He had always agreed that no law could regulate the price of wages; admitting that axiom, he
 1247
 MR. WODEHOUSE  said, he had given notice on Tuesday, that he would put a question to the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury, which, however, he believed ought to be put to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department. The question was, whether it were the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce the Bill for an alteration in the Law of Settlement at such a period of the Session, and at such a stage of the discussion now pending, as to enable Parliament to form a judgment as to the advantages or disadvantages of the proposed change in a matter of such immense importance to millions of the lowest and poorest of Her Majesty's subjects, under all the various liabilities in which the industry of the three kingdoms was at present placed?
 MR. HUDSON , in explanation, begged, in the strongest possible manner the forms of the House would allow, to contradict the assertion of the noble Lord, that in the observations he had had the honour of addressing to the House, he ever meant, or did treat lightly the distresses of Ireland. He appealed to every Gentleman who had heard him to say whether any expression of his warranted the construction put upon it by the noble Lord. ["No, no."] What he stated was, that it was the duty of the Government immediately to provide for the distresses of Ireland, and that he would be ready to give his support to any measures the Government might bring forward tending to afford immediate relief to the Irish people. This, he believed, was the substance of what he had said. He did not know whether the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) who had said "Hear, hear," to the expression of the noble Lord, (Lord Duncan) had understood him; but he begged most distinctly to say that he did not, upon that occasion, and he hoped never would, treat lightly the distresses of the sister country.
 MR. BENETT , in opposing the present measures, was not influenced by ill will or animosity either against the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government, or against those who now supported him. As for himself, he never gave any support as a party man to any Minister, nor to any party in that House. He would, however, tell those who originated the measure which produced the present juncture, and those who supported it, that as there was, as they avowed, a change in their sentiments, they acted most honourably in having changed their conduct. The present was a question of very great importance—it was a question on which he entertained for many years very strong opinions. He heard with great pleasure the position which was laid down by the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary, when he said that the object of all political economy should be to afford the greatest amount of happiness to the largest number of people; and the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government expressed a similar opinion. It certainly was the duty of the Government and of the Legislature to do everything in their power to afford the greatest
 1214 s.; s. s.;
 MR. HUME  observed, that the right hon. Baronet, while he admitted that Peers had interfered at elections, had stated that there was no objection to such interference. Why, then, he would ask, retain the Standing Order forbidding the practice? With respect to the present Motion, he must admit that the hon. Member for Athlone had not brought forward facts
 1188
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that, cordially concurring in the measure, and believing it to be one which not only did honour to the Ministry that introduced it, but would reflect credit upon the Parliament that adopted it; believing also, after the statement made by the right hon. Baronet opposite, that through the influence of public opinion alone could he overcome the difficulties with which he was surrounded, or be sustained against the obloquy with which bigotry and ignorance had assailed him; he thought it behoved those who did not owe their seats to the nomination of peers, and were not removable at their pleasure, but owed them to the free and independent choice of the people, to stand up for the measure, and not give to it a silent, a lukewarm, or a jealous support. Far be it from him to let hon. Gentlemen opposite suppose him insensible to the painful and false position in which they were placed; he could make every allowance for those whose powers of change could not keep pace with the conversions they saw going on around them; far be it from him to deny that a great, a very extraordinary, a peculiar, a simultaneous change of opinion had taken place in the breasts of distinguished men on both sides of the House, concurrently with the advice tendered by the right hon. Baronet to his Cabinet in November last; but it did not become hon.
 1228 "We assure your Majesty that we are deeply sensible of the importance of those considerations to which your Majesty has been graciously pleased to direct our attention, in reference to the commerce and revenue of the country, and to the laws which regulate the trade in corn; that in deciding the course which it may be advisable to pursue with reference to such matters, it will be our earnest desire to consult the interest and promote the welfare of all classes of your Majesty's subjects; that we feel it, however, to be our duty humbly to submit to your Majesty that it is essential to the satisfactory results of our deliberations upon these and other matters of public concern that your Majesty's Government should possess the confidence of this House and of the country; and respectfully to represent to your Majesty that confidence is not reposed in the present advisers of your Majesty." 1229 1230 l. 1231 "Taking into account the state of political parties in the country, the Tithe Bill may be considered to be as favourable an arrangement towards the clergy of a very difficult question as could have been expected. Happily for the Church, a powerful and influential body of the laity were also holders of tithe property to a very large amount, and were as much interested in a fair settlement of the question as we were; the clergy, therefore, in this instance, have experienced a greater degree of justice than has been extended towards them in the discussion of other subjects connected with their temporal affairs." 1232 "The criterion which has been fixed upon to determine the future value of the tithes is also considered by some persons, whose opinions are entitled to great weight, as a dangerous and delusive arrangement, which will hereafter lead to great diminution in the property of the Church; and it is said that any considerable decrease in the value or quantity of the articles which may have been fixed upon to regulate the future relative value of the tithes, would produce the evils here anticipated; but it must be remembered, that as the incomes of the clergy were derived under the old system from the articles of produce, they would equally have been affected by, under any circumstances, a diminution in their quantity or value. I am not, therefore, disposed to think that any just cause for alarm exists on this point." The Times 1233 1234 s. d. 1235 1236
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  thought he might expose himself to the charge of being indifferent to the subject, if he allowed it to pass without a word of comment. In his opinion the present question was an important one, for a charge had been brought by an hon. Member, involving the representatives of four constituencies. He had expected that some of the individuals alluded to would have rebutted the charge; but as none of them had done so, what was the House and the country to think of a charge which none of the Gentlemen implicated had attempted to disavow? The impression on his mind, and on that of the country would be, that the charges were well founded, or Gentlemen of character and high honour would have disavowed them. The right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government had talked of the legitimate influence of Peers. He did not wish to abolish that influence; but he feared it was an interest that had been exerted in an improper manner. He wished not to detract from the influence of Peers; but while he wished to see legitimate influence held up, he desired to see illegitimate influence destroyed. He hoped the facts mentioned by the hon. Member for Athlone would have the effect of causing greater efforts to be made to carry reform into the House, which at present did not suitably represent the people.
 MR. ALDERMAN THOMPSON  said, that although he was aware that the subject-matter of the debate was exhausted by the hon. Members who had preceded him, still he trusted that he might be permitted to state the grounds on which he intended to give his vote. He claimed their indulgence, particularly from this circumstance, that he had held a seat in that House for six-and-twenty years, and had witnessed changes from time to time made in their fiscal laws. He had seen reductions in duties made, and the revenue sacrificed, without a corresponding benefit. He wished this House to remember that it had limited the issues of the Bank of England to 14,000,000 l. 1199 1200 l.; 1201 l. l. s. l.; l. 
 
 Towns. Sums deposited in 1841. Sums deposited in 1844. 
 Blackburn 41,661 54,298 
 Bolton 69,836 97,657 
 Burnley 31,356 41,550 
 Bury 35,174 54,039 
 Lancaster 63,890 77,953 
 Manchester 397,592 568,313 
 Preston 88,350 121,565 
 Warrington 112,355 126,236 
 Wigan 66,105 79,789 l.; l. 
 
 Towns. Sums deposited in 1841. Sums deposited in 1844. 
 Barnsely 27,395 35,979 
 Bradford 59,167 91,399 
 Halifax 49,963 73,339 
 Huddersfield 51,690 66,067 
 Leeds 233,780 262,908 
 Sheffield 161,969 182,838 
 Wakefield 50,363 57,596 l. s. l., l. s. 1202 l. 1203 l. "Among many other great questions upon which the election of next Monday must have some bearing, is that system of laws which we call the Tariff, which has received the general support of the State. Every man expects a ferocious attack upon the whole system. Every man expects that, since the Government now in power was established by the general voice of the Anti-Tariff States, an attempt will be made to destroy that whole policy. How far they will succeed I know not. There are circumstances of encouragement—circumstances of an opposite character. But my question is with the people of Massachusetts. What have the people of Massachusetts to expect from any change? Taking the Act of 1842 as a general law, of general operation, what have the good people of Massachusetts to expect from any change? The question is, whether the Tariff is conducive to the prosperity of Massachusetts? What is the criterion? I put it upon one ground only; I put it upon this one ground. I do not inquire what profits are made by the rich capitalists, or whether
 1204 l., l.; 1205 Ironical cheers. 1206 l. l., d. d. d. s. d. l. l. l. l. 1207 d. l. s. d.
 SIR J. GRAHAM : I have to state that the Bill to which my hon. Friend refers is already prepared and drawn, and that I shall be ready at an early period to lay it on the Table of this House. I beg to add, however, that it is not my intention to press that measure forward, or bring on a
 1167
 SIR J. GRAHAM : With all respect for the hon. Member I beg to decline entering into any particulars respecting the provisions of the Bill until it shall have been laid on the Table of the House.
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, much of what has been introduced by the hon. Member who seconded the Motion, appears to me to have no proper bearing upon this question. I see no necessity for introducing into this debate the matter which has been tolerably well described in the debates of six preceding
 1184 1185 bonâ fide 1186 1187
 SIR R. PEEL  said, the instructions which had been sent out by the French Government to the French Agent there, were in substance the same as those sent by the English Government to Mr. Mandeville, but no Convention had been entered into.
 SIR R. PEEL  was not prepared at present on the part of the Government, to lay any more Papers on the Table of the House. It was very difficult to ascertain what might be the local effect of producing such Papers upon the questions at issue between this country, France, and the States upon the banks of the River Plate. The communications were subject to great interruption—for instance, up to the present hour the Government had received no official account of the late action in the Parana. He only mentioned this to show how very uncertain was the position of affairs, and how doubtful might be the effect of producing further Papers on the subject.
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH : I will not trespass upon your patience, Sir, by discussing the general principles of free trade. I will content myself with replying to some objections which have been urged against this measure by hon. Gentlemen opposite. They have repeatedly asserted that it would be injurious to the labouring classes; that free trade would cause low prices; and that low prices would be followed by low wages. The right hon. Baronet, on the first night of the Session, stated his conviction that there was no connexion between low prices and low wages. He has been repeatedly and violently assailed, both for this opinion, and for having arrived at such a conclusion from an experience of only three years. I think, however, if it were necessary, it would be easy to confirm that position by a much wider experience. Just before the dissolution of the last Parliament, I gave notice of a Motion for a Committee to inquire if any connexion could be traced between the amount of the wages of labour and the
 1208 1209 1210 1211 1212 1213
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, there was another question connected with these operations. It had been a general usage, when two countries united for the purpose of having recourse to coercive measures, for them to enter into a Convention, regulating the course to be pursued. That was the case in the interference of England and France in Portugal, in the case of Spain, and when England and France united to wrest the citadel of Antwerp from the hands of the Hutch. He wished to ask whether, in the present case, before the two countries determined to act together by force in the River Plate, any Convention was entered into, regulating the course to be pursued, and defining the objects which were to be attained?
 The O'CONOR DON  rose to move—
 "That it be an Instruction to the Select Committee on Petitions that in all cases of Irish Railway Bills, wherein the promoters shall have proved compliance with the Standing Orders in the House of Lords, they do give priority to the investigation of the compliance with the Standing Orders of the House of Commons, applicable to such Bills, over all other cases which may stand for enquiry before them, provided due notice of the sitting of the Committee for such purpose has been given, and that the promoters of such Bill propose to prove the compliance with the Standing Orders either wholly or in part by  viva voce 1256
 MR. O'CONNELL  did not know why the Motion should extend only to Railway Bills. He did not see why all Private Bills connected with Ireland should not be included. He should, therefore, beg leave to move, if the Motion were persisted in, as an Amendment, that instead of the words, "In all cases of Irish Railway Bills," the words "in all cases of Irish Private Bills," should be inserted.
 The O'CONOR DON  believed that the suggestion of the hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Strutt), would accomplish the end he had in view.
 MR. PIGOTT  put the following questions, of which he had given notice to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Home Department, whether appointments had been made of three persons as Crown Solicitors for the Home Circuit in Ireland, or for certain counties belonging to it, in the room of the Crown Solicitor for that circuit who had died? If that question were answered in the affirmative, then to ask, whether the salaries or emoluments of those officers had been fixed, and if so, at what amount; when were the appointments made; when was it determined to divide the circuit into districts, with separate solicitors, at distinct salaries; and whether there were any objection, on the part of the Government, to laying before the House copies of all documents relating to any alterations which had been made in the office of Crown Solicitor, or in the arrangements for the conduct of Crown prosecutions in Ireland?
 MR. FOX MAULE  begged to offer an intimation to the Committee of which the hon. Member for Derby was Chairman, with regard to the Oban and Glasgow Railway Bill, to which the right hon. Baronet opposite had referred. That Bill stood very low down on the list. It was desirable that it should be discussed as early as possible, in order that employment might be afforded to the people in that part of the country, who were much distressed; and if the Committee had power (which, however, he doubted), he trusted that that case would meet with their attention, in order to have it advanced.
 LORD GRANVILLE SOMERSET , though exceedingly anxious to facilitate Irish railway business as much as possible, thought that the Motion could hardly be acceded to. Before it could be agreed to, he should like to hear the opinion of the Chairman of the Committee on Private Bills, as to whether the Committee had not already actually the power to advance any Bills they should think fit. He did not object to the principle of the Motion, but he believed that it would be found practically to be unnecessary.
 MR. DISRAELI : I leave the right hon. Baronet the First Minister to settle the question of the currency with his new supporter, to whom we are indebted for a protection speech almost as effective as that delivered by the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool. The hon. Gentleman who has just addressed us seems to think that after the declaration of the Government all is doubtful; but there is at least one point on which no doubt can rest. Whatever may be the opinions of the two parties that now have entered into this great controversy on the main question before the House—however fervent may be our convictions of the advantages of protection—however sanguine may be the expectations of hon. Gentlemen opposite of the consequences of competition, there is one point on which we are all agreed, and with respect to which there can be no misunderstanding; and it is this—that Her Majesty's Ministers have changed their opinions. Whether the opinions they formerly pursued, or the opinions which they are now about to follow, are the right ones, the most expedient, and the
 1319 1320 1321 1322 1323 1324 1325 d. d. s. s. 1326 1327 1328 1329 1330 1331 l. l. l., l. l., l. 1332 1333 s. 1334 1335 1336 1337 primâ facie primâ facie primâ facie primâ facie, onus probandi 1338 1339 primâ facie 1340 1341 s. 1342 s. s. s. d. 1343 bal costume 1344 s. 1345 1346 1347
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said the right hon. Gentleman the Paymaster General of the Forces, in his address to the House last night appealed to his (Mr. C. Bruce's) hon. Friend the Member for the county of Devon, and to other hon. Gentlemen who were opposed to Her Majesty's Government on this question, not to protract the present discussion; pointing out to them the great danger of keeping the country in a continual state of agitation upon so important a subject as that of a repeal of the Corn Laws. The right hon. Gentleman also intimated that if the measure of Government were at once acquiesced in, an end would at once be put to all agitation upon the subject. Now, certainly if the entire sacrifice of the interests and the opinions of one important class of the community to the demands of another class, could be designated a settlement of the question, then indeed he was willing to assent to the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman; for if he thought that by acceding to the Motion he should succeed in putting an end to the agitation that was now prevailing, he confessed that many of his objections to the measure would be obviated. But he could not so persuade himself. He could not but apprehend that if this measure should be carried through Parliament, an agitation of a much more difficult description would ensue. He could not, therefore, look to the promised cessation of agitation as a reason to induce him to acquiesce in the measure now proposed. We could never expect to
 1265 1266 1267 1268 1269 s.? s. s. s. 1270 per se, 1271 1272 1273
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that, taking the argument of the hon. Member for Stroud against the "apparel" of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire for what it was worth, he had good right to defend the hon. Member for Northamptonshire from the charge of not adhering in his own person to the principle of protection. While protection existed on the articles he wore, he did not violate his principles in using them. The retaining of protection had been alluded to as a bar to agricultural improvement; but all he (Mr. Newdegate) could say was, that Northamptonshire was a most unlucky specimen of an unimproved county. Hon. Members opposite, generally for the purposes of free-trade argument, and in order to prove their own case, described the agriculturists as the advocates of prohibition, not of protection. His understanding of their doctrine of free-trade was, "buying in the cheapest market, and selling in the dearest." He acknowledged it as the true principle of trade; but he denied it to be the true principle of government. It was not the function of a Government merely to increase wealth; but its function was to secure the peace, happiness, and welfare of the people. He could not understand that a principle which was true when applied to trade, must necessarily be true when applied to government. If the Government were to proceed upon this
 1284 1285 s. d.; 1286 1287 1288 l., l., l. l. l. 1289 l.; l., l. s. s. s. s. d. 1290 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d., s. d. s. d. 1291 l. 1292 l. l.; l. l., l. l. l. l. l.; l. l. "All those who value genuine piety, the pure offspring of the Established Church, and who, unprejudiced by the abuse of the Poor Laws, still venerate their human origin and appreciate their utility, when cautiously administered; all these (and they form the best part of the community)
 1293 1294 1295
 MR. HORSMAN  begged to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government to a statement which appeared in the public prints relative to the disease in the potato. From that statement it seemed to be the opinion of Dr. Lindley, that the disease would not be confined to this year's crop, but would affect the potatoes of next year through the seed employed for their production. The statement to which he referred was as follows:—
 "Potato Disease.—At the ordinary meeting of the Horticultural Society, held on Tuesday, Dr. Lindley exhibited some specimens of new potatoes grown at the gardens of the Society and Lady Rolle at Bicton. In many the disease of last autumn was very apparent, and in some cases it was very extensive. They had been produced from sets of potatoes which had been but slightly affected, but showed that wherever the vitality had been influenced, the disease would be perpetuated—a fact which could not too generally be made known amongst growers. In many, the brown and blighted haulm and the decayed tubers were quite a sperceptible as in any of the old specimens. In the specimens fresh dug up no appearance of fungus could be detected by the most minute microscopical examination; but this was very apparent in those from the country, showing that it was a consequence and not the cause of the disease."
 MR. STRUTT , as the Chairman of the Committee alluded to by the noble Lord, begged to say that he believed the Committee had the power to make a selection, and recommend the advancement of any particular Bill; but at the same time he should say that the Committee would feel the greatest reluctance and difficulty in giving priority to any one or any class, or taking any out of the ordinary course, without receiving some special notice from the House, or some positive intimation of its desire that such a course should be adopted. The Committee had, as the House was fully aware, a vast number of Bills before them. There was an accumulation of business altogether unprece-
 1257
 MR. STRUTT  was anxious that there should be no misunderstanding on the subject as to what Bills ought, whether Irish or Scotch, to have precedence in the Committee.
 MR. HUDSON  said, that the only way to meet the difficulty was to appoint one or two other Committees, which would be prepared to take the Irish and Scotch Bills. He threw it out for the consideration of hon. Members, whether it might not be expedient to assimilate the Orders of the two Houses of Parliament, so that when an inquiry into a Railway Bill had been completed in one House, it would not be necessary to go through precisely the same process in the other House.
 MR. MUNTZ  said, the House was in rather an unfortunate state, and that he was the most fortunate man in it, except that he was not the most fashionable. He had no change to make in the opinion he had professed for the last thirty years. He had no speeches to retract, no principles to repudiate, and he had no cause of quarrel with the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government. He differed with that right hon. Gentleman on the question before the House; he differed from the hon. Gentlemen who sat around him; and he differed from the hon. Gentlemen who sat on the other side of the House. But withal there was no man amongst them more anxious than he was for the passing of the measure by a triumphant majority. Its passing would be a national benefit, for it would tear away the veil of delusion which had obscured the common sense of the country for so long a period, and would remove for ever the perpetual excuse for political wrong—"the Corn Law did this, and the Corn Law did that, and the Corn Law did everything." He (Mr. Muntz) had repeatedly told the right hon. Baronet that he would ultimately have to reduce the price of everything to the continental level, or keep up prices and the wages of labour in this country nominally higher than at present. The right hon. Baronet had taken the former course on this occasion.
 1313 Laughter. Cheers. 1314 1315 "Though the variations in the price of labour not only do not always correspond with those in the price of provisions, but are frequently quite opposite, we must not, upon this account, imagine that the price of provisions has no influence upon that of labour. The money price of labour is necessarily regulated by two circumstances—the demand for labour and the price of the necessaries and conveniences of life. The demand for labour, according as it happens to be increasing stationary, or declining, or to require an increasing, stationary, or declining population, determined the quantity of the necessaries and conveniences of life which must be given to the labourer; and the money price of labour is determined by what is requisite for purchasing this quantity. Though the money price of labour, therefore, is sometimes high where the price of provisions is low, it would be still higher, the demand continuing the same, if the price of provisions was high." 1316 l. l. l. l., l. 1317 l. l. l. l.; l., l. l. s., s.; s. s. s. 1318 in toto
 MR. AGLIONBY  was of opinion, that Bills in the same group ought as much as possible to be taken together, and not exactly as they stood in the list. He was rather in favour of giving some discretion to the Committee; but he did not see how it could be done without an express instruction from the House. Perhaps the better course would be, that the Secretary of State for the Home Department should propose that a particular Bill, on account of distress in the district, should be taken out of its turn, and that the House, acting on its own knowledge, or on the responsibility of the Minister of the Crown, should instruct the Committee accordingly.
 MR. BARKLY : As one of those who have most recently obtained a seat in this House, I should have nothing to plead in justification of a reference to the exciting topics connected with the past history of these discussions, which has formed the chief staple of the speeches on this side. It is one of the few advantages which my inexperience in political life confers upon me, that I am able to approach the consideration of this question as calmly and deliberately as that of any other of equal magnitude and of equal importance to the social and commercial interests of this country. True, Sir, I belong to the protected classes; true, the constituents who have done me the honour to send me here, suppose themselves to be interested in maintaining protection; but this is only an additional reason why I should be careful not to allow my judgment to be biassed by self-interest or prejudice. I consider the question, therefore, simply to be, whether it will conduce more to the interests of the British Empire to carry into fuller effect those doctrines respecting freedom of commercial intercourse with foreign nations, which have so materially influenced the
 1296 1297 primâ facie 1298 l. l. 1299 1300 s. s. s. s. d., s. 1301 s. 1302 1303 cæteris paribus, 1304 s. s. s. d. s. d. d. 1305 1306 1307 1308 1309 1310
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, it was already under the consideration of the Committee of which he was a Member, whether it would not be expedient that Scotch railways, as well as Irish railways, should originate during the present Session in the House of Lords—a measure which, if adopted, would obviously tend to relieve railway business in that House, and afford the same facility for the passing of Scotch Railway Bills as had already been afforded to Irish railways. With regard to the suggestion of the hon. Member for Roscommon, he considered that unless some such plan was adopted, Irish Railway Bills would absolutely be put to a disadvantage, in place of being facilitated. It was well known that the Standing Orders of the House of Lords were more strict than those of the House of Commons; and that some of the Bills might be going on in the House of Lords, incurring great expense there, without knowing whether or not they would pass the Standing Orders of the House of Commons. If this could be avoided with justice to other parties, it ought surely to be done.
 1259
 DR. BOWRING  thought that every facility ought to be given to the Irish Bills. The inconvenience which their promoters felt in being delayed in London, must be much greater than it could be in the case of English Bills. He hoped that, whether
 1258
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that he wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury; and in order to explain the question, it would be necessary that he should trouble the House with half a dozen words. The House was aware that the authority of the Post Office of England extended to the Colonies, but that by Act of Parliament the power of the Post Office authorities was defined and restricted within certain limits. Many of the inhabitants of Canada were desirous that the system of penny postage which had been established in England should be extended to Canada; and the question which he had to put was, whether there was any possibility of an arrangement by which the benefit of the penny postage could be extended to that Colony?
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, that the Committee alluded to would have to report thirty-three groups to the House on Monday next.
 MR. P. BENNET , JUN., said, he took that the first opportunity that presented itself, to offer a few brief observations to the notice of the House, and to advert to the astonishment and surprise caused in the whole country at the sudden change that had taken place in the opinions of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government. Admitting the able manner in which the right hon. Gentleman had conducted the financial affairs of this country, he could not help always feeling a degree of distrust, because of the way in which the right hon. Baronet had deserted his principles likewise on a former occasion, in respect to a much more important object than that now under consideration, namely, the integrity of the Protestant religion. When he (Mr. Bennet) saw the right hon. Genlteman repudiating all he had done, and unsaying all he had said on that point, as well as on the subject of protection to agriculture, he could not contemplate the next step which the right hon. Baronet might take without fear and apprehension, because of the danger with which such desertion of principle menaced the country at large. It grieved him to the heart to say so, but such were his convictions. He entirely disagreed with the able speech of his hon. Friend the Member for Leominster, who had in great measure used the
 1311 1312
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  said: Sir, the hon. Member for Berkshire, the other night, with a candour and honesty which did him honour, put this question on its right issue when he said:—"Either protection is right, or it is wrong; if right, maintain it—if wrong, abolish it without delay and without compensation. "This, Sir, seems to me the only true view of the question, and it disposes at once of almost all the endless speeches we have heard from the other side upon the conduct of the two right hon. Baronets opposite, and the contrast between their present and their past sayings and doings. Upon this point I have nothing to remark but this, that whatever I may think of the resistance heretofore offered by those right hon.
 1274 1275 Primâ facie l.; 1276 1277 1278 vice versâ, 1279 1280 "When wild in woods the naked savage ran." 1281 1282 1283
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, there was a growing notion out of doors that the legislation upon railways was worthy only of the island of Laputa. He recommended that a Committee should sit in Dublin, to consider the best lines for Ireland.
 MR. GROGAN  seconded the Motion; he said that he had put a notice of Motion on the book with a similar intention to that of his hon. Friend. His Motion was—
 "That it be an instruction to the Committee on Petitions for Private Bills that a Sub-Committee for the consideration of petitions for Irish Railway Bills be appointed."
 SIR G. CLERK  thought it quite inexpedient that the House should come to any formal Resolution. The Committee had full power to make any arrangement they pleased with regard to any business that might come before them; and his hon. Friend the Member for Derby, although he might see some difficulty in the matter, must have gathered enough from the generally expressed feeling of the House in the present state of Ireland, to guide the decision of the Committee of which he was the Chairman. Enough had been said to show that it would meet the general concurrence of the House if the Committee were to facilitate the Irish measure.
 SIR G. GREY  also thought it best to leave the matter in the hands of the Committee, who had both the power and the disposition to make such arrangements as would best carry out the views of the House; but there was another subject to which he wished to call the attention of the House, and on which he had already communicated with the hon. Member for Derby, but in respect of which, however, it appeared that the Committee of which he was Chairman would not feel themselves at liberty to act without some expression of the opinion of the House. The House were aware that a Classification Committee had been ap-
 1260
 SIR J. GRAHAM  observed, that the necessity for facilitating the despatch of railway business was by no means confined to Ireland, and that it might be necessary to extend the same facilities to Scotch Bills. He was informed that there was a district in the Highlands of Scotland where there was great distress at the present moment, arising partly from the failure of the potato crop, and partly from the want of employment. There was a petition before the House for a Bill to make a railway from Oban to Glasgow; and he was informed that there was no opposition offered to the Bill, either in point of form or on the merits. But, although there was no opposition to it, it was very far down in the list, and must wait its time, unless some arrangement were made to give it a preference. He thought it was a matter well worthy the attention of the House to consider whether, in the present pressure of business with reference to Private Bills, a Committee of Inquiry should not be appointed to report whether facilities ought not to be given to such Bills as the one he had referred to, where there was no opposition, and where the necessity for employment was unusually great.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  had to state, in answer, that the Government had determined to divide the appointment consequent on the death of the Crown Solicitor for the Home Circuit in Ireland. That decision had been come to towards the end of the month of December; but the appointments were not dated until about three weeks ago, and they were to take effect from the 31st of March. He ought first to state that the Home Circuit in Ireland consisted of six counties, and that to each of the three new Crown Solicitors two counties would be allotted, excepting the Crown Solicitor for Dublin should happen to resign or die. As to salaries, the salaries of each would be 500 l. 1262 l. l.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that the question put by the hon. and learned Gentleman would better form the subject of an official communication than of a question in that House. The considerations which affected the postal arrangements with the Colonies were of a very complicated character. Thus, for instance, with regard to Canada: first, there was to be considered the communication between the mother country and Canada; then came the internal communication within the Colony itself; and lastly, the postal communications with other portions of our North American Colonies. Now, though there was some objection upon the part of Canada, it certainly, as a general rule, seemed advantageous—even to the Colony itself—that all these arrangements should be upon one footing, and placed under one superintendence. The hon. and learned Gentleman would, therefore, see the difficulties which beset the arrangements which, on behalf of the people of Canada, he had suggested. It was quite
 1263
 SIR R. PEEL : I stated, upon Monday night, that I was not without apprehensions that the dangers likely to result from the failure of the potato crop would not be limited to the present season. But upon Monday night I spoke without having had any direct personal communication with Dr. Lindley. I had received communications of a general nature, inducing me to fear that such would be the case. On the following day, however, on the Tuesday, I received a direct communication from Dr. Lindley. He stated to me that he had felt it to be his duty to forward an immediate statement to the Government, ac-
 1264
 SIR W. HEATHCOTE , whilst joining in the sentiments expressed by his hon. Friend the Member for Derby, wished to mention one circumstance before hon. Members should have made up their minds upon the subject. In the case of Irish Bills having passed the House of Lords, and being obliged to keep witnesses in town until their turn in the House of Commons should have arrived, the question was one merely of expense, and not one of retarding the proceedings; but in the case of English Bills which should be set aside to make way for others, the question would be not one of expense alone, but of delay to their proceedings, as they should afterwards have to pass the House of Lords. To them, therefore, the question would be one of loss of time as well as loss of money.
 MR. O'CONNELL  put the following questions to the right hon. Baronet: 1st. Whether it be the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring in any Bill, during the present Session, to enable the same proportion, as nearly as can be, of the people of Ireland to enjoy the elective franchise with the comparative proportion of the population of England enjoying that franchise? 2nd. Whether it be the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring in any Bill, during the present Session, to enable the people of Ireland to return a just and an adequate number of representatives to this House? 3rd. Whether it be the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring in any Bill, during the present Session, to equalize the franchise and powers in the Municipal Reform Act for Ireland, with the same franchises and powers conceded by the Municipal Reform Act of England to the English corporations? 4th. Whether it be the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring in any Bill, duiing the present Session, to give to tenants in Ireland adequate and full compensation for improvements made upon their lands during the tenancy?
 MR. O'CONNELL  alluded to a case in which he had been counsel, when Chief Justice Pennefather ruled that his argument was inconsistent with the practice, and the trial was proceeded with. The twelve Judges met on the subject, and though they gave no decision, it was understood they had formed an opinion adverse to that of Chief Justice Pennefather.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, in answer to a question of the hon. and learned Member for Cork, stated that three measures would be brought forward by the Government with regard to Ireland—one upon the franchise, another upon the Municipal Corporations, and a third on the law of Landlord and Tenant; but that no such Bills would be introduced until the commercial measures now before the House have been disposed of. I wish to ask the right hon. Baronet if those Bills will be introduced before the Coercion Bill now before the other House is discussed in this House.
 SIR P. PEEL : Perhaps the noble Lord will give me an opportunity of answering his question some other day.
 MR. O'CONNELL  put the following questions to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department:—1st. Will there be any objection to lay before the House the correspondence between the most rev. Dr. Cantwell, the Catholic bishop, and his Excellency the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, on the subject of Bryan Seery, who has been lately executed at Mullingar? 2nd. Whether a deputation, consisting of several persons, waited on His Excellency the Lord Lieutenant, after the conviction and before the execution of Bryan Seery, to pray that the convict should not be respited, or his sentence transmuted, but that he should be executed? 3rd. To ask whether there be any instance in England, for the last century, of any person being tried for any capital felony by a second jury, after the first jury was discharged by the court, at the same session or assizes, and convicted and executed? and if so, state the time, place, and name of the individual.
 MR. LOCKHART  was at all times reluctant to obtrude himself on the House, but could not submit to give a silent vote on that occasion. He had a deep sense of the services which Her Majesty's Ministers had rendered to their country. He had not forgotten the distress and the despondency which existed in it at the time of their coming into office, or the many difficulties from which they had extricated it; he, therefore, most sincerely regretted to find himself placed in opposition to them on this question. His regret was great in proportion to the respect in which he held them. When the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government proposed an alteration in the Corn Laws in 1842, he had given him his humble and willing support; he had reason to know that the vote he then gave met with the approbation of his constituents; and since the present scheme was announced he had received a communication from a very influential body of them expressing the same moderate views. They contented themselves by saying, that as long as protection was given to manufactures of any description it was most unjust to deprive agriculture of it; and he believed they would be satisfied were the three years of promised protection, like the three years of the right hon. Baronet's Income Tax, prolonged to an indefinite period. For his own part, he desired to see all their interests protected moderately, and on equitable principles. He had no wish, he never had any wish, for exclusive advantages to agriculture; but he must say, that the cry of class legislation came with a bad grace from those who raised it. Few interests had been more largely favoured than that of cotton manufactures. Up to 1819, if he mistook not, foreign goods of that description were subject to a duty of 85½ per cent., and till a more recent period to a duty of 50 per cent. There was also, at
 1417 1418 1419 s s. "If Sir R. Peel carries his intended Corn Bill, it will ruin this part of the country. A great part of our inferior land must go out of cultivation; and if allowed to remain in grass, it will get into a wild state in a very few years." 1420
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  said, to his mind the question very naturally had arisen, to whom was the present state of things to be attributed? Most assuredly to the unexpected conduct of the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government. In June last there was a division of 254 against 123, in opposition to the repeal of the Corn Laws; but then there was no indication of any change of opinion from the right hon. Baronet. The House rejected the Motion of the hon. Member for Stockport, by a majority of 213 to 121—neither was there then any indication of a change. The season passed on until August; but as to any change on the subject of the Corn Laws, there was not the slightest symptom, although there were serious apprehensions that a bad harvest would follow, from two of the summer months being extremely wet. Two months of dry weather having dissipated all serious apprehensions as regarded the harvest, matters proceeded in the usual
 1452 1453 l.; l.; l. Macbeth 1454
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  wished to know whether there was any truth in a communication he had received from the Isle of Jersey to the effect that one of the Jurats in the Royal Court of that island had publicly cast imputations upon certain officers in Her Majesty's army.
 MR. LIDDELL  observed that his right hon. Friend, who had just concluded his speech, made use of one of the boldest assertions which it had ever been his lot to hear, even in that House. The right hon. Gentleman said in the commencement of his speech that this measure was in fact no change in the policy of the Government. If that was the case, why did they go to the country in 1841 and protest against the policy of the noble Lord opposite? What were the three articles upon which that noble Lord proposed a change—a change, let him add, much more judicious than that now proposed by Her Majesty's Government—what but the three articles of corn sugar and timber? and if a change respecting them was desirable, why was the noble Lord now sitting on the Opposition bench? Why was the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland now engaged in an election contest, and in which he was likely to be rejected? Why had so many Members, from a conscentious feeling, resigned their seats in that House? Anything more startling than the assertion that by this measure they were only pursuing the same line of
 1441 1442 1443 l. l. l. l., ad valorem, 1444 s. s.; l. s., l. s., 1445 l. s. d., l., l. s., l., s. s. d. l. l. l. l. l. 1446 ex necessitate, 1447 s. s.; s., 1448 1449
 MR. B. COCHRANE  wished to know whether the Government of Greece had paid the interest upon the loan; and whether the right hon. Baronet had any objection to lay on the Table a copy of Lord
 1390
 MR. E. BULLER  said, that though he rose under every disadvantage in following the hon. Member for Shrewsbury, yet confidence in the cause which he advocated, induced him to reply to some of the observations of the hon. Gentleman. He would at once dismiss all reference to the remarks made by the hon. Gentleman with regard to party and Party connexions, and come at once to those arguments which bore on the question. The arguments of that hon. Gentleman, however, were not new: they consisted mainly of the old arguments which had been often brought forward, and as often refuted. The principal points adduced by the hon. Member were, firstly, that free importation without reciprocity drained the country of specie; secondly, that it involved the forfeiture
 1395 l., l.; l., l. 1396 l.; l.; l. l.; l. 1397 1398 s. 1399 1400
 MR. MUNTZ  said, that he wished to say a few words in explanation. The fact was that he had never found fault with the importation of foreign spelter, or with the reduction or removal of the duty. The reason why he alluded to the subject was, that the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, in the course of his speech, stated that in no instance had the reduction or removal of a tax on a foreign article reduced the produce of the same article in this country. Now he was ready to show that that was not always the case, and he had mentioned spelter as an instance. He
 1440 l. l. l.
 MR. MONTAGUE GORE  said, the opinions he was about to express, and the vote he intended to give, were opinions, and would be a vote, at variance with those of a large body within that House, for whom he entertained the highest esteem and the sincerest regard; it would also be a vote at variance with the sentiments of many without the House, for whom also, as for the others, he felt the highest regard; moreover, the opinions he then entertained on this subject were at variance with the opinions he formerly held; and, in justice to himself and the public, he felt bound to come forward manfully and openly, and state the reasons that influenced him on the present occasion. In so doing he agreed with the hon. Member who had last spoken, that the consistency which scorned to yield to popular agitation, or be lured from the path of duty, was indeed to be prized; but the consistency which, when convinced that its course was erroneous, still adhered to it—that did so in despite of the evils that would be caused by so doing—that was a consistency which he could neither admire nor follow. What subject or question could be named on which there had not been change, both in
 1405 s. s. s. s. 1406 s. s. d., s. d., s. d. s. d.; s. d. s. s. d. s. d., s. d., s. s. d.; s. d. 1407 s. s. s. 1408 "Such has been the depreciation of the wheat crops, owing to the exhaustion of the soil, consequent on ill-judged farming, that the product of the wheat lands, between the Seneca lake and Virginia river, has not, for the last three or four years, exceeded the low average of eleven or twelve bushels per acre. Indeed, I have authority for declaring that, in reference to a single county (Seneca), the average yield is now not over ten bushels per acre." "Where is the farm that will now upon the average yield forty bushels of wheat to the acre? If in this assemblage there is an individual who owns that farm, and realizes that result, I will stop: no one speaks. If not forty, then thirty; if not thirty, then twenty." "One reason why our land has not advanced more rapidly, grows out of the wide circle in which it is expanded—new lands yield with but comparative little labour; and to produce a certain amount, many acres are put into cultivation: when these fail to make a profitable return, the farmer, instead of repairing the exhaustion of the soil, often adopts, as he supposes, an easier method of obtaining his purpose, by moving to one of the new States, where a rich harvest may be reaped with little trouble of sowing. To cultivate less land, and in a superior manner, is the point to be ascertained." "It appears by an official report made to the British Parliament, in 1841, that the average price of wheat for the seven previous years, at the principal ports of the Baltic and the Black Sea was 77 cents per bushel; while, during the same years, the average price at Boston, New York, Philadelphia, and Baltimore, was 1 dollar 40 cents. The cost of freight to England, from the European ports referred to, was 13 cents per bushel. The freight from our ports to England was 17 to 18 cents per bushel. Thus it is apparent that our most favoured wheat region cannot compote even-handed with the continent of Europe for the wheat trade with England, unless we consent to a general reduction of wages to the European standard—a thing quite out of the question." "Barring any extraordinary difference in the seasons, I should expect that the price here, with the ports always open, would, in a series of years of some length, average about 45 s. 1409 s. "The averages of the six years following, when there was no foreign wheat, or no proportion worth mentioning in the market, were, 1882, 58 s. d.; s. d.; s. d.; s. d.; s. d.; s. d.; s. d. s. d.; s. d.; s. d.; s. d.; s., 1410 "When manufactures and mechanical arts are not cultivated, the bulk of the people must apply themselves to agriculture; and if their skill and industry increase, there must arise a great superfluity from their labour, beyond what suffices to maintain them. They have no temptation, therefore, to increase their skill and industry, since they cannot exchange that superfluity for any commodities which may serve either to their pleasure or vanity. A habit of indolence naturally prevails. The greater part of the land lies uncultivated. What is cultivated yields not its utmost for want of skill and assiduity in the farmers. Were our narrow and malignant politics to meet with success, we should reduce all our neighbouring nations to the same state of sloth and ignorance that prevails in Morocco and the coast of Barbary. But what would be the consequence? They could send us no commodities; they could take none from us; our domestic commerce itself would languish for want of emulation, example, and instruction; and we, ourselves, should soon fall into the same abject condition to which we had reduced them. I shall, therefore, venture to acknowledge, that not only as a man, but as a British subject, I pray for the flourishing commerce of Germany, Spain, Italy, and even France itself. I am, at least, certain that Great Britain and all those nations would
 1411 "Harvest of 1795 very deficient, price of wheat six guineas per quarter. Season of 1796 favourable, price fell to 56 s. s. d. s. s. s. d. "The falling-off in the number of marriages observable
 1412 s. d. s. s. s. d., s. s. s. d., 1413 "Those who understand, as your Lordships do, the real nature of commerce, and the true principles of its wise administration, well know that all its interests are interwoven; all its branches inseparably connected. It is the union, not of commerce with Government, but of commerce with commerce, that a provident legislation will respect. Numerous are the commercial enterprises Which would be of small benefit if limited to the direct intercourse of one country with another, but which, by intermediate or subsequent transactions, in other markets and in distant regions, become highly advantageous both to private and to national interests. For the encouragement of such hopes no moment was ever yet more favourable. The barrier of prejudices is shaken, the spirit of monopoly is rapidly giving way to juster principles of commercial legislation, and the change of public opinion in this country is seconded by the great revolutions of the world." * * 1414 "The shores watered by her wealthy tides;"—
 MR. FITZGERALD  wished to impress upon Her Majesty's Ministers the urgent necessity of relieving his unfortunate country from the horrors of famine. He was happy to say, that it was with no small gratification and pleasure that he had listened to the speech of the right hon. Baronet the other night; and he (Mr. Fitzgerald) could corroborate the accounts read by the right hon. Baronet and the statements he had made. He could not but express his satisfaction likewise at the conduct of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department, in introducing measures for promoting public works in Ireland, so as to give the poor the means of buying what
 1415 1416
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, that this was the second occasion, during a not very long Parliamentary experience, on which he had witnessed the great subject of the Corn Laws come under discussion, encumbered with all the difficulties and dangers of a party question. It was, however, impossible to imagine two occasions more different than those of 1841 and 1846. In the one, this question was agitated us the last hope of a falling party; in the other, it was brought forward as the cause of the destruction of a vigorous and a powerful one. In the one case, it was hardly possible to conceive any other principle upon which a Government could stand; in the other, it was hardly possible to imagine a cause from which a Government should fall. But the little experience he had had of Parliament, and of public life, had been quite sufficient to convince him that it was very difficult effectively to bring great questions before that House, whether of a commercial or other nature, without connecting them with some party motives with which to influence the public mind. We were a practical people, and not given to examine into abstract theory or truths by themselves; we were more inclined to give such matters a serious and earnest attention (and it was of some consequence to set a value on this disposition) when stimulated by the sense of party interests, or when suffering from temporary difficulties. It had been his object, on every occasion since he entered Parliament, to give hon. Gentlemen opposite the full benefit of his appeciation of their motives, even when they brought forward measures which he could not in themselves approve. In no case had he suffered his political feelings to blind his judgment in this respect. Therefore it would not be fair in him to deny the same just estimate of the motives of those with whom he had acted, faithfully and trustfully, for many years. He was not inclined to interpret the actions of Her Majesty's Government so harshly as some of his hon. Friends had done. He was disposed to consider much as unconscious bias, which they regarded as concerted treachery—much as accident, which they regarded as stratagem. And, indeed, considering the peculiar crisis of the laws under discussion, there was little reason to
 1455 s. s.; s. "O faciles dare summa Deos, eademque tueri Difficiles." 1456 ad interim, 1457 1458 1459 1460
 CAPTAIN BATESON : During this protracted debate only one Irish county Member has addressed the House. I therefore feel it my duty, as one of the Representatives of a great, influential, and agricultural county, to state my reasons for giving my decided opposition to the proposed measure of Her Majesty's Ministers. In the first place, Sir, I shall take this opportunity briefly to allude to a speech delivered in this House on a former evening, which was so replete with philanthropy and the milk of human kindness—I allude to the hon. Member for Durham. I hold in my hand an extract from the half-yearly Report of Mr. Leonard Horner, Inspector of Factories, dated 26th of November, 1845, in which, after stating that he found the average of accidents occurring in cotton mills to be forty-five weekly, that Gentleman went on to say—
 "I saw that a great many arose from the cogwheels at the ends of certain spinning-machines called throstle-frames, causing severe lacerations of the hand, and making amputations of fingers necessary in many instances. I ascertained from the occupiers of some factories, where the machinery is carefully fenced, that it is both necessary and practicable to guard these cog-wheels; and their opinions were confirmed by that of an eminent machine-maker in Manchester. I therefore directed the warning notice to be left by the sub-inspectors at every factory where the cog-wheels of the throstle-frames are not boxed, and they are now leaving these notices in their present circuit of inspection. They inform me that, in general, they meet with the most ready compliance with the recommendation. Mr. Davies, the sub-inspector at Ashton, in his last Report, says, 'I have not had an objection made by any mill-occupier to fencing the throstle-frames.' The 43rd Clause provides, that the mill-occupier, on receiving such a notice, may call upon the inspector to have it submited to the arbitration of persons 'skilled in the construction of the kind of machinery to which
 1401 1402 1403 l. s. d. d. 1404 "Facilis descensus Averni Sed revocare gradum— Hoc opus, hic labor est."
 SIR G. CLERK  said, that he very unwillingly obtruded himself upon the attention of the House; but he could not allow this question, considering the situation which he had the honour to hold, to be disposed of without saying a few words; at the same time he did not presume to think he could add much to what had been already said. The hon. Member for Shrewsbury had told the House that the objections to the measures were two fold—one founded upon the non-existence of an emergency, the other upon the construction of a new system of policy. As to the existence of the emergency, he believed that that was a position which could not be successfully contested, and which it was really unnecessary to debate at any length. In discussing the other ground of objection, the hon. Member for Shrewsbury told them that the present measure went to the construction of a new system of commercial policy. Now he denied that altogether. The present proposition was nothing more than a following out of that system which was introduced by his right hon. Friend in 1842, and a development of
 1421 1422 s. s.; s. s, 1423 1424 1425 1426 l.; 1427 1428 s. 1429 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d., s. d. s. s. s. 1430 1431 1432 l. l. l. 1433 l. l. l. l. l., s. d. 1434 1435 1436 1437 s. d. s. d., s. d. s., s. d. s. 
 
 In 1830 475,000 l. 
 1831 620,000 l. 
 1832 674,000 l. 
 1833 848,000 l. 
 1834 1,116,000 l. 
 1835 1,450,000 l. 
 1836 1,591,000 l. 
 1837 1,642,000 l. 
 1838 2,314,000 l. 
 1839 2,298,000 l. 
 1840 2,378,000 l. 
 1841 2,902,000 l. 
 1842 3,193,000 l. 
 1843 2,534,000 l. 
 1844 2,650,000 l. l., l. 1438 1439
 SIR J. GRAHAM : With respect to the first question, I can say on the part of the Government, that there will be no difficulty whatever in laying on the Table of the House the correspondence to which that question refers. In answer to the second question, I have to inform the hon. and learned Gentleman, that a deputation from the county of Westmeath did wait upon the Lord Lieutenant before the execution of Seery, and made, upon their own part, a request that the law should be allowed to
 1393 1394
 SIR J. GRAHAM  replied that an official representation had been made to him respecting a judgment which had been pronounced by one of the Jurats in that island in his judicial capacity, in consequence of which he (Sir J. Graham) had felt it to be his duty to require the Governor of that island to demand from the Jurat in question an explanation of the language attributed.
 SIR R. INGLIS : I wish to ask the right hon. Baronet whether Her Majesty's Government have received the despatches in reference to the war now raging in India, which, according to an answer given last week by a Member of the Government, they were then expecting? If so, whether those despatches confirm generally the statements which are contained in the morning papers of this day? Whether they include returns of all the casualties that have taken place? And lastly, whether Her Majesty's Government are prepared to issue an  Extraordinary Gazette
 SIR R. PEEL : I am glad that the hon. Baronet has given me an opportunity of stating that despatches in reference to the event he alludes to were received at four o'clock, at the office of the Board of Control. I have not myself seen them; but I can state that they confirm generally the accounts which appear in the morning papers, viz., that through the consummate valour of the Indian troops and those of Her Majesty, a great victory had been gained against a great disparity in point of numbers,
 1391 Gazette,
 SIR R. PEEL : I propose to state generally, in answer to the questions of the hon. and learned Gentlemen, the course which the Government intend to pursue. It is not our intention to bring in any Government measure, unless of the most pressing necessity, until those affecting the commercial interests of the country shall have been disposed of. So far as Her Majesty's Government are concerned, we propose that, excepting the Mutiny Bill and some matters of finance, which are necessary for the conduct of the public business, the measures now pending for discussion shall have precedence before all others. I have, however, to state to the hon. and learned Gentleman, that we hope to be enabled, in the course of the present Session, to bring in a Bill for encouraging in Ireland the improvement of land, by providing, in certain cases, for compensation to tenants for improvements upon their holdings. We
 1392
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that the Government of Greece had not made any payment on account of the loan; in consequence of which it would be the duty of Her Majesty's Government, under the Convention, to make provision for that failure. He should not object to lay on the Table a copy of the despatch alluded to; but to the production of other Papers connected with that despatch he could not consent. With respect to the report that a mail had been stopped, and the despatches of Sir E. Lyons opened, the only information which he had received on the subject was contained in a letter from Sir E. Lyons, in which he stated that the mail of the 13th instant had been stopped about twenty miles from the capital; that every letter considered to contain money or despatches had been seized and opened; and that the only one which escaped was an official letter to Mr. Ralli, the Greek Consul in London.
 MR. HUTT  regretted that his hon. Friend (Mr. Liddell) should have enlisted his talents on the side of protection, which necessarily forced him to take the narrowest views of a question that ought to be contemplated in the broadest and most comprehensive manner. His hon. Friend had dwelt at considerable length upon the contents of a petition which he had presented from certain shipowners against the proposed reduction of duties on foreign timber. He (Mr. Hutt) had presented petitions of a very different tendency from a large body of shipowners of the Tyne and Wear, who were convinced that the measure proposed by the right hon. Baronet was calculated to do them great benefit. He would beg the House to notice what was the remedy suggested by his right hon. Friend to remedy what he considered to be a hardship on the British shipowners. Why, to maintain high duties on Prussian timber. That might be a satisfactory argument to the shipowners signing the petition which his hon. Friend presented; but it would be far from satisfactory to the great body of the shipowners of this country. The protective system had materially injured both the British and the colonial shipping. Relying upon this protection, the North American Colonies selected the worst description of timber for exportation to this country, whilst they sent their best timber to the United States. The only likelihood of the British shipowners getting good timber was by facilitating the importation of timber from the Baltic. He did trust that the House would take a more liberal view of this question than his hon. Friend had done, and that they would adopt the proposition of a diminished duty
 1450 1451
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  did not wish now to enter into the large question, but to express an opinion that nothing should be done by the Committee that was not submitted to the House. There were practical difficulties in the way of making the change as regarded Parliamentary and other documents, which were greater than perhaps many hon. Members supposed.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  resumed the Adjourned Debate, saying, he was not ashamed to acknowledge that his opinions had undergone a considerable change within the last few months. On several occasions he had supported propositions brought forward by the hon. Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. C. Villiers) with a view to the adoption of a moderate fixed duty, which then seemed to him the best mode of settling the question, at least for many years. He now frankly avowed that in his
 16 17 18 Dublin Evening Mail 19 
 
 In 1812 had been imported 314,311 cwts. 
 In 1843 773,463 cwts. 
 In 1844 839,567 cwts. 
 In 1845 1,422,379 cwts. centos Hansard 20 nusquam tuta fides nusquam tuta fides Punch. "And let me beg of my dear Ultras not to imagine that they can survive for a single instant without Sir Robert—that they could form an Ultra Tory Administration. Is there a Chartist in Great Britain who would not, upon the first intimation of such an attempt, order a new suit of clothes, and call upon the milkman and baker for an extended credit? Is there a political reasoner who would not come out of his hole with a new Constitution?" 21
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said: In addressing to the House the few observations which I think it necessary to make upon this occasion, I find that I must begin, as most of the hon. Members have begun who have latterly taken a part in the discussion of the present question, by saying, that at this period of so protracted a debate I cannot expect to add anything to the facts and reasonings which have been already laid before the House. I shall therefore feel it my duty not to claim much of your attention; I shall endeavour to confine the observations which it will be necessary for me to make within as narrow limits as it is possible for me to assign them. As to the more prominent merits of the question, it appears to me quite unnecessary that I should say much after the great ability with which it has been opened by my right hon. Friend at the head of the Government, and after the manner in which it was yesterday evening argued by my right hon. Friend the Vice President of the Board of Trade, who, in the course of his speech, left no part of the subject untouched, nor any argument of his opponents unrefuted. My right hon. Friend established beyond the possibility of contradiction, that the progress which we had made, and were making, towards the removal of restrictions upon commerce must be regarded as successful—that all the relaxations which we had adopted had in every instance been attended with benefits, and produced results favourable to the comfort and hap-
 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 "Is it not the fact, that it is only since freights were not remunerative that the attention of shipowners has been directed to obtaining relief from any quarter they could?" "The fact is, that until Sir Robert Peel, by the new Tariff, allowed us to get foreign provisions out of bond, the competition we had to maintain against foreigners was most unfair: that made a difference of 30 per cent. upon those provisions at once. Previously it was like a penalty hanging over us, and a premium to the foreigner." "Has that relaxation of the law, by which vessels
 57 "Are we to understand from what you have stated, and from the trade in guano, the shipping have not suffered so much as they did the three preceding years?" "Yes, because the freights are becoming better all over the world. There is one exception, I believe. In the Canada trade they got from 30 s. s. s.; "If you will give me 38 s. 58 59 60 "There was a great rumour, rather than a complaint, of the great damage the kingdom sustained from the importation of Irish cattle, which were bred there for nothing, and transported for little, and might well undersell all the cattle here; and hence the breed of cattle would be totally given over, and thereby the land yield no rent proportionally to what it ever had done, and that this could only be remedied by a very strict Act of Parliament to forbid the importation." "Very many Members of several counties desired that their counties might not undergo any damage for the benefit of other individual places. They professed that their counties had no land bad enough to breed, and that their great traffic consisted in buying the cattle, making them fat, and upon this they paid their rent; and this appeared to be the case of many counties in England." "In the Lords, a marvellous keen resolution appeared to use all expedition in passing it, and I must remark upon the singular coincidence, that the Duke of Buckingham appeared at the head of those who favoured the Bill with a marvellous concernment; and at the time appointed for the debate of it, contrary to his custom of coming to the House, indeed of not rising till eleven o'clock, and seldom staying above a quarter of an hour, except upon some business he concerned himself in, he was always present from the first thing in the morning, and stayed till the last at night, for the debate often held from the morning till four o'clock in the afternoon, and sometimes till candles were brought it. It was urged that, if the Bill did not pass, all the rents in Ireland would rise in a vast proportion, and those in England fall as much." "When the passage is open, land will be turned most to feed cattle; when shut, to sheep, as it is at present; though I am of opinion it cannot last, because this Act seems to have been carried on rather by the interest of particular counties in
 61 62 63 64 65 66 67
 MR. M. MILES  begged upon that to move an Amendment, that the debate be adjourned to Thursday evening. He did not think that it would make the slightest eventual difference, and he was of opinion that the business for which, as he understood, Wednesdays had been set apart, should not be interfered with. If his wish had been consulted, a division would long since have been come to; but on a question of such importance, one, as all agitating the country, east, west, north, and south, it would have been impracticable, and perhaps inadvisable, to close the debate before this week. It had certainly already been sufficiently discussed, as far as that side of the House was concerned; and there would therefore, be no objection to an adjournment to Thursday. He sincerely hoped the discussion would not be continued over Friday night. The right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) had that day presented a petition from Liverpool, containing a prayer to that effect, from merchants engaged in the American trade, and also representing the great impediments which the delay in a settlement presented to mercantile business. That might be looked upon as the general feeling on the subject; and the sooner a settlement was effected the better for Ireland. If, in reference to that country, the right hon. Baronet introduced a short Bill, the object of which should be to give an immediate supply of food, his (Mr. Miles's) consent should be cheerfully given to its passing. If famine, while the debate was going on, did come on the Irish people, and if the price of provisions did rise, upon the right hon. Baronet would rest all the responsibility.
 COLONEL CONOLLY  said, he entirely agreed in the assertion of a right hon. Friend of his (Mr. Shaw) that the evils arising from the partial failure of the potato crop in Ireland, had been infinitely exaggerated. Accounts from various parts of the country, and his own acquaintance with its condition, especially in those districts with which he was connected, enable him to state this decidedly. He hoped that he need not declare how heartily he desired that all legitimate relief might be afforded to the Irish people in their present position; or that the whole course of his life presented sufficient evidence of his being utterly incapable of insensibility as to the miseries of his fellow countrymen. But he had listened attentively to the debate, without being able to discern the slightest connection between the measure before the House, and the potato deficiency. The evils arising out of that deficiency would, in the common course of events, continue but four months; while the measure of the Minister could not come fully into operation before the expi-
 22 23 24 s. s. 25 26 s. s.
 MR. PACKE  said, the question now before the House was of such a nature that he could not content himself by giving a silent vote. It was a measure which, if passed into a law, would be ruinous to the best interests of the country; it would be most destructive in its results. It gave him great pain to be obliged to differ from an Administration which he had supported during his whole Parliamentary career. He did not wish to impute improper motives to the right hon. Baronet as to the introduction of the measures before the House, yet he could not help saying again, that they would be ruinous to the general interests of the country. But what principally startled him on the first day of the Session was, to hear the right hon. Baronet affirm that his present policy was a "Conservative policy." How he could address such language to the House, or how he could describe that to be a Conservative policy which principally originated in the continued agitation of the hon. Members for Durham and Stockport, he (Mr. Packe) could not conceive; an agitation which went on increasing from year to year, until it produced those effects which could not be too strongly deprecated. His opinion of the word "Conservative" was, that it meant fixed principles; for surely no one could for a moment imagine that its meaning was — principles ever varying, ever changing. Conservative did not mean that—it did not mean either the change of principle or the sacrifice of party. But it was stated that, as the measure before the House had the support of public opinion, that was quite sufficient; and it was wrong to ransack  Hansard 41 "You ask me what I propose to do with reference to the Corn Laws. Sir, I will not shrink from the expression of my opinion. If I saw reason for changing my course I would do so, and frankly avow it. But I have not changed my opinion, notwithstanding the combination which has been formed against the Corn Laws; notwithstanding the declaration that either the total repeal or the substitution of a fixed duty for the present scale, is the inevitable result of the agitation now going forward. Notwithstanding this declaration, I do not hesitate to avow my adherence to the opinion I expressed last year." "While he left entirely with Her Majesty's Ministers all the responsibility of making an appeal upon the subject of the Corn Laws to the sense of the people, yet he must at the same time say that he was not prepared to offer the slightest obstruction in the way of Her Majesty's Government taking that course." "My belief and the belief of my Colleagues is, that it is important for this country—that it is of the highest importance to the welfare of all classes in this country—that you should take care that the main sources of your supply of corn should be derived from domestic agriculture." "I think that frequent alterations on laws of this kind are in themselves to be deprecated. I think also that the existing law offered as a compromise was a fair adjustment of the question. I believe that there was as willing and as cordial an assent given to it by the agricultural interest as could have been anticipated. I think they gave that assent upon the assumption and in the expectation that the law would not be again altered without good and sufficient reason." 42 "I defend protection to agriculture on the principle and to the extent I am bound to say that I have defended it before. I am about to pronounce no new opinions on this subject. I have a strong feeling that, speaking generally—and I am not now speaking of the amount of protection; I shall come to that presently—but speaking generally, I think the agriculture of this country is entitled to protection, and that it is so entitled to protection from considerations of justice as well as from considerations of policy. I do consider that there are special and peculiar burdens on agriculture.…. I ask you to look at the extent of capital employed in the cultivation of the soil—to look at the population of Ireland entirely depending on its agricultural produce—to see the amount of the supply of corn obtained from domestic agriculture, at least nine-tenths of the whole quantity consumed—and to look at the condition of the population employed in its culture. I am not prepared to alter the amount of protection determined upon two years ago, with the general goodwill and concurrence of the agricultural interest." 43 44 d.
 DR. BOWRING  moved the Adjournment of the Debate to Wednesday.
 DR. BOWRING  referred to the interchange of documents established between the two Houses of Parliament and the Chamber of Peers and Deputies in France: the same satisfactory course had been pursued with regard to Belgium; and he saw no reason why the library of the House might not thus be enriched from America and other countries. Most valuable information would thus be placed within the reach of all Members. He also noticed the proposition of the French Government in 1832, respecting an interchange of all the chief works printed in that country and in this, which had led to the negotiation of a treaty, which Talleyrand had called the only intellectual treaty in existence. Even if war were to break out between Great Britain and France, he (Dr. Bowring) saw no ground for interfering with such a convention, which might produce a new era in national feeling.
 MR. TRELAWNY  was surprised at the extraordinary contrast between the letter of the noble Lord the Member for Newark and his recent speech. Why, from reading that letter, he concluded the noble Lord would of course support the Government; or that, if he did not, his only reason for opposing the Government would seem to be because he agreed with it. He believed the noble Lord to be a most benevolent person—he believed him possessed of considerable ability; and yet his conduct was difficult to reconcile with these qualities. The noble Lord admitted the frightful state of famine and disease expected to prevail in Ireland. He admitted the necessity of taking measures to diminish these dreadful visitations. He went even so far as to agree that the right hon. Baronet ought to have opened the ports, even in the autumn, when the danger was
 36 37 Hansard Times 38 39 40
 MR. HUME  suggested, that this Committee should be empowered to direct that documents laid before that House be printed in octavo instead of folio. At all events, a trial of the kind might be made, and the convenience of all parties thus consulted.
 MR. FERRAND : I believe, Sir, I am now perfectly in order in alluding to those petitions which were presented a few nights ago by the noble Lord the Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire (Lord Morpeth). Hon. Gentlemen will remember, that, in the year 1843, I produced evidence before this House that the Anti-Corn-Law League had purchased signatures in the West Riding of Yorkshire at one shilling a hundred. I was well aware when the noble Lord presented those petitions, that, though he might believe that the signatures to them were genuine, and the unbiassed acts of the parties who had attached their names, such was not the fact; and I am here prepared to prove before a Committee of this House, if my statement is denied, that the working people are compelled by
 68 69 l. 70 71 "The cause which I conceive is at the bottom of the great struggle which I am about to commence is a war against monopolists, and it is not before such an assembly as this, or in the Cloth Hall at Leeds, that I can despair of triumph." "When I hear my noble Friend (Earl Fitzwilliam) speak of leaving the agriculture of this country wholly without protection, I declare before
 72 "Some people tell you to stick fast to English agriculture, and then go to foreign agriculture. I say, stick fast to English agriculture;" and he went on to ask, "What does the English landlord get from agriculture? On the average, wheat land does not pay him more than 24 s. s. 73 "Before my hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. Villiers) called on us, the representatives of the people, to repeal and totally abjure the principle of the law for regulating the importation of corn, it was necessary, in my apprehension, for him to prove two propositions to the satisfaction of this House. It was necessary for him to prove, first, that the distress of certain portions of the people is caused by the principle of the law for regulating the importation of foreign corn. Secondly, that the repeal of all laws founded on that principle, would not cause greater evils to other portions of the community than those which he assumes it would remove. Sir, the hon. Member and his supporters not only do not prove these propositions, they never attempt to argue them; and yet, until these propositions are not only argued, but proved, that man must be, as was well said in another place, a madman, or something worse, who would attack the principle of a law which has not only answered its purpose better than any other principle which has ever been tried, but under which the owners and occupiers of lands have been taught by this House and the Legislature to believe themselves safe and secure. Six Parliaments have maintained this principle. Talk of public faith indeed; here is the faith of Parliament pledged to the landed property of England, pledged not indeed to particular enactments, and clerical details of scales and figures—who could imagine such a folly?—but pledged to the principle of protection—protection without prohibition; but still protection to the home grower. And under this solemn sanction and security, and relying on this faith of Parliament, have they purchased, taken leases, made devises and settlements, laid out vast sums in improvements and expensive systems; married, made plans in life, educated and provided for children in business, and whom they fondly thought were safe under the shelter of that protection beneath which their fathers rested. Is the hon. Gentleman prepared for a system of treachery and confiscation? I know he is not; but I know also that his Motion, if carried, would be equivalent to such a system." s. 74 "The soil they cannot annihilate, nor destroy its perennial bounty. In spite of their foolish projects it will still continue to feed their wrongs and nourish their ingratitude—while its possessors and its cultivators are still the best customers for their trade and manufactures, and maintain the wealth and credit of the country against the subtle lucubrations of economists, or the rashness of disappointed politicians." "Would a little party of them now ask leave to overset the corner-stone of that commercial policy by which they have grown so great? Whence is this strange insanity? Has too much prosperity made them mad? This question affects the very principles of the Constitution, and the honour no less than the constitution of this House." "Sir, I know not what the noble Lord will do next; but having no proof of national benefits to be derived from his changes, or those of his more rational associates; and seeing all around me much of the distress and mischief, the effect of ill-considered change, I am resolved, for the benefit of the country and the preservation of its liberties, to stand by the landed interest; which is only another name for the English interest, and to oppose by the best means in my power—and now by voting for the measure of Her Majesty's Ministers (not the present measure)—the schemes of those, who for years past have shown by nothing so much as their rashness in new legislation, their hostility to English liberty and their incapacity to govern their country." "Had I thought that I was rendering myself liable to the charge of supporting a man who could be called, with any show of justice, a traitor to his party, I would have relinquished the highly
 75 "It is now twelve years since I first appeared before you as a candidate. I was then a young man, just entering into public life, and I then asked for your suffrages upon trust and credit, undertaking to use such abilities as I possessed in your service, and for the advancement of the public interest. During that time in my Parliamentary course I may have made many mistakes; but, gentlemen, we are all fallible, and in the various questions which came before Parliament many difficulties have arisen in the progress of various measures upon which I may have been in error; but, I believe that the course I have taken generally has been to conciliate your support, because I believe my views have generally coincided with those of my constituents." "He did not think that that protection was one bit larger than it ought to be, looking to the burdens of agriculture;" and he finished by saying, that "he hoped and believed that there was among the people of this country, as there certainly was by Her Majesty's Ministers, a determination to uphold that law." 76 "A friend of mine said, 'And what about the Corn Laws?' I said, I would not avoid that subject; nor will I. I conceive the true principle to be, that a protective duty should be substituted for absolute prohibition; and I think that, as a general rule, it should be the smallest amount which, on a careful revision, would be found to give to native industry fair play in its competition with foreign countries, the circumstances attending our relation to those countries being duly considered." "What did Lord Melbourne say in the House of Lords, when the proposal to alter the Corn Laws was mooted in that House? He declared that it would be absolute madness in any one to make such a proposition." "The late Government is fallen, to rise no more.
 77 "My opinion is, that a further prevalence of the democratic principle would prove most destructive to the institutions and great interests of the country. Should that unfortunate day ever dawn upon the political horizon when the principles of democracy will be paramount, degraded indeed will be our fate— 'The day when thou, imperial Troy! must bend 'And see thy warriors fall, thy glorious end.' 'May I be cold before that dreadful day, 'Pressed with a load of monumental clay.'" "It now only remains for you to decide whether I shall return to the House of Commons as your representative. (The right hon. Baronet then sat down amidst most vehement and long-continued shouts of applause.) As no other candidate presented himself, Sir J. Graham was pronounced duly elected, and was afterwards chaired through the town, with the usual honours." "I feel that confidence, because I have no reason to suppose that your political sentiments have undergone a change; and, if they have not, I am conscious that I have faithfully adhered in public life to every profession which I made upon these hustings, and have kept every engagement into which I entered… I now come, I repeat, to a most important question—that of the introduction of foreign corn… I prefer the principle of the ascending and descending scale; and I do not consider, when I look to the burdens which land in this country is subjected to, that a fixed duty of 8 s. 78 "They had placed him in the proud position of representing them in Parliament, and they might depend upon it that he would be faithful to the professions he had made; and in adhering to those Conservative principles which in the face of his constituency he had professed he would, while at the same time he paid due respect to the just rights of those who might differ from him in religious opinions, do everything in his power to maintain the fundamental institutions of the country in Church and State, and to advance the glory and happiness of the country." "He was certain that the prosperity of Tamworth depended mainly on the prosperity of the agriculturists; and if they were permanently depressed, every farmer, shopkeeper, and labourer in it would be involved in one common ruin. With that feeling he would never consent to take from the British farmer such fair protection as would enable him to compete on equal terms with the foreign corn-grower, nor consent to reduce the English labour to the same condition as the ill-fed and ill-paid labourer of the Continent." 79 80 "It appears that overseers of parishes in London are in the habit of contracting with the manufacturers of the north for the disposal of their children; and these manufacturers agree to take one idiot for every nineteen sane children. In this manner, waggon loads of these little creatures are sent down to be at the perfect disposal of their new masters." "About fifteen years ago, I brought in a Bill for the regulation of apprentices in cotton manufactories. At that time they were the description of persons most employed in these manufactories. I myself had a thousand of them, and I felt the necessity of some regulation with respect to them. …. It was notorious that children of a very tender age were dragged from their beds some hours before daylight, and confined in the factories not less than fifteen hours; and it is also notoriously the opinion of the faculty, that no children of eight or nine years of age can bear this degree of hardship with impunity to their health and constitution." "It is proved that children are employed in
 81 "Domestic manufactures were almost extinct, and the population, which was formerly scattered through the country, was impressed with a distinct character, besotting themselves, particularly on Saturday evenings and Sunday, with ale, beer, and gin. The quantity of gin drank was enormous, and even children of tender age drank it. Many took large quantities of opium, sometimes laudanum in pills, and sometimes an anodyne draught of the same kind. They were also exposed to severe and unremitting labour. Their work was most laborious, only exceeded by mowing. They worked twelve hours a day, while farm labourers worked only ten hours. The children did not receive that attention from their mothers which was necessary for their welfare." "The quantity of opium they took was very large, and a very considerable number of the children feel victims to diseases." 82 "The moral check has no influence in preventing the rapid increase of population. The existence of cheap and redundant labour in the market has a tendency to reduce its general price." "I have seen misery in many forms; I have been in the huts and hovels of Ireland, when my native land was visited with the scourge of the cholera; I have visited the cellars of Liverpool, where existence assumes an aspect that ceases to be human; I have penetrated into the wynds and vennels of Glasgow (localities that would try to the utmost the hardest of hearts and the strongest of stomachs); but nowhere have I seen misery which so agonized my very soul, as that which I have witnessed in the manufacturing districts of Lancashire. And why? Because the extreme of wretchedness was there, and there only, combined with a high tone of moral dignity, and a marked sense of propriety—a decency, cleanliness, and order, the elements which produced the vast wealth I have described, and which do not merit the intense suffering I have witnessed. I was beholding the gradual immolation of the noblest and most valuable population that ever existed in this country, or any other under heaven." s. 83 "They labour fifteen and eighteen hours a day for 3 s. d. "The mortality of children under five years of age is about 49 per cent. of the deaths; that this arises from the general neglect of the mothers. They are in the stocking frames, and they are not in the habit of hiring their children out to the same extent that they are in many of the manufacturing districts. The children of the poor are very much neglected. Dr. Shaw speaks of the physical debility of the frame-work knitters, as being greater than that of the manufacturers in the north, and says that it is caused from the deprivation of the necessaries of life. That their food is bread, cheese, gruel, tea, and a proportion of meat, but to no great extent; that they got better wages in former years, and had more regular habits, and consequently they were enabled to obtain good sustenance, working at a very fair rate of remuneration with comparatively less labour." "Among the poorer classes it is a common practice of mothers to administer Godfrey's cordial and laudanum to their infants; the object is to keep them quiet while the mother is at work." "He has known an infant killed with three drops of laudanum; that nothing was said about it; infants go off quietly; they are not like grown people." "Had heard of four children in the same family who had died in the same way; the infants who die in a more insidious manner, become pale, and emaciated, and tremulous, and at last seem to sink from emaciation or decline. The system has considerably increased since witness has been in the business, which he attributes to the abject poverty of the people." 84 "They pawn their blankets in the morning, and fetch them out at night, for a day's subsistence, which costs each poor person 3d. a week." "The social condition of the frame-work knitters presents unvarying evidence of the distress and depression almost inseparable from the low rate of earnings to which the trade has been subjected for many years past. This is especially observable in the state of their dwellings, which are, every day, diminishing in comfort and respectability; their furniture becoming less and less, as time destroys or necessity compels them to part with it piece by piece—their clothing usually of the worst kind, and the sacrifices they make to support existence, often greatly aggravating the evils attendant on their penury." "So far as their moral condition may be judged of by their attendance at places of public worship, the evidence from all quarters tends to establish an almost total disregard of this solemn duty." 85 "Another cause for a winter assize, he lamented to say, must be considered to be the steady increase of crime throughout the country, and in their own county; that increase, too, being not so much observable in crimes of a petty nature, as in those of a more serious character. Within the last eight years the number of prisoners had nearly doubled in their own county; and though it was true that the population had increased—that the police were more efficient than formerly—and that capital punishment had in a great measure been removed, yet he did not think that it was possible, by the application of those facts, satisfactorily to explain away the great incubus which seemed to hang over them." 86 "We presume the Corn Law repealers could not expect a more rapid increase of trade than has here taken place during the last sixty years, supposing that all restrictions were removed from our commerce; and surely if there were a shadow of truth in the statements that 'increased trade would give increased prosperity to the working classes,' they ought, indeed, to be supremely happy." "During the periods included in the above table, it will be seen, however that the hand-loom weaver was reduced from 33 s. d. s. d. s. d., s. d.; s. s. "In 1815, when the weaver was paid 28 s. s., s. d. l. l. s. "In 1824, the power-loom weavers at Sidebottom's mill, Waterside, had for weaving 24 yards, 21 picks to the quarter-inch, 2 s.; s. d. s. d. s. d., 87 l. s. s. "We export 50,000,000 l. 88 "Turton, near Bolton, 9th of 9th Month, 1834. "Respected Friend,—I take the liberty of forwarding for thy consideration a few observations on the New Poor Law Bill, the leading principle of which I most cordially approve, whilst in some of its details I fear it will be found practically
 89 s. d. s. d. s. d. 90 "As the variety of our wants is great, we may require lists of small families or great ones, men and women, grown persons or children, widows or orphans." Manchester Guardian, "It gives us pleasure to record the success in this way of another effort to improve the condition of a laborious and deserving class; and we trust that which we have now written may pave the way to further successful experiments of the same kind." 91 l. s. d. s. d. l. s. d. "Whole families are compelled to pawn the clothes they wear in the day for the purpose of redeeming the bedding on which they are to take their nightly repose, and who are able to redeem their clothes in the morning only by replaeing their bedding in the hands of the pawdbroker." 92 "In many of the manufacturing districts, but particularly, he (the author of the statement) feared, in the guilty county to which he belonged, cruelties the most heartrending were practised on the unoffending labourers. They were harassed to the brink of death by excessive labour; they were flogged, fettered, and tortured, and, in many
 93 l. s. l., 94 "I take the liberty of troubling you with a few particulars which I think will show to you the sort of disinterested reformers some of the leading members of the Anti-Corn-Law League are. You will please to satisfy yourself of the correctness of this statement before you make any public use of it." "When Sir Robert Peel published his new Tariff, he put down starch at 5 l. l. l. 95 l. "The other night the hon. Member for Stockport said, he had inquired, whether in his mills, or 'printing works,' the truck system prevailed, and that he had found it did not; whereas the fact was, that the hon. Member himself kept cows, and forced his people to buy milk from him." "As many hundred tons of dung were used in this trade, it was necessary for manufacturers to keep great numbers of cows. Now, it so happened that his printing work being close to a town, it was found more convenient to buy the requisite quantity of dung than to keep cows; and, therefore, the insinuations of the hon. Member for Knaresborough were not only untrue, but destitute of the shadow of a foundation." Manchester Guardian, 96 "I think Mr. Cobden has not a shop attached to his works, neither do they let cottages. Mr. Cobden has no shop, but he is in the habit of letting out cows to his workpeople." "I do not think that it is any injury to the workpeople, but it is done in Chorley. I made inquiries chiefly at Mr. Cobden's printworks: there are certain individuals who take cows. It is the interest of the printers to have cows kept upon certain land that they have, and several of the men take cows." "Have you heard at any time of any manufacturers in your part of the country compelling the work-people to take more milk than they could consume?" The answer was, "Yes, I have." I asked "Is that carried on to a considerable extent?" and the reply was, "Yes, it is." "In Chorley?" "Yes." Mr. Cobden asked "Has that been the millowners or the calico printers?" The answer was, "The millowners, generally." I asked "Is the system considered by the working classes as oppressive?" The answer, "Yes, and it is particularly oppressive, and I state it as a fact, that the whole of the mill owners in Chorley, with the exception of one, in the cotton trade, are in the habit of getting something like 50 per cent. out of the shop." He also said, "They sell everything." Another question was, "That is the feeling among the working classes?" "Yes; milk has been taken for a family, and actually sold at less than they gave for it to another family to get quit of it." 97 l.;
 SIR G. GREY  hoped that the matter would not be lost sight of by the Printing Committee. He had seen the Sanatory Reports published by private parties in a very cheap and popular shape, with good paper and type: the octavo form was much less bulky and more portable,
 15
 SIR R. INGLIS  doubted whether it came within the object he had in view.
 SIR ROBERT INGLIS  moved, that a Standing Committee of sixteen Members be appointed to assist Mr. Speaker in the direction of the library, and to whom shall be referred all matters relating thereto.
 VISCOUNT INGESTRE  felt that an apology was due from him to the House for venturing to trespass upon its attention when a subject of such importance was before it; but its very importance must be his apology. He had also another excuse for addressing it; for he found that the parties with whom he had generally acted, and whom he had always been proud to follow, had gone over to the enemy, and that they were without a leader. It was necessary, in these days of general apostacy, that each person should himself declare his own opinions. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, at the commencement of that which he would allow him to call his most extraordinary speech, some nights ago, adduced two or three tests by which he tried his own sincerity. He (Lord Ingestre) gave him full credit for his sincerity; and, as he was bound to do so, he gave full credit to the sincerity of all who sat upon that bench. Still, he must be allowed to say, though he had no abandonment of political opinions to account for, he might adduce one test of his sincerity. He believed he might say that such test was to be found in a letter written by a noble relative of his (Earl Talbot)—by one of whom he must always speak with that respect and affection which he
 27 28 29 "I cannot doubt that the resistance which I have hitherto offered to the claims of the Roman Catholics has been one of the main grounds upon which I have been entitled to the confidence and support of a very large body of my constituents; and, although I discontinue that resistance solely from the firm belief that perseverance in it would be not only unavailing, but would be injurious to those interests which it is my special duty to uphold, yet I consider myself bound to surrender to the University, without delay, the trust which they have confided to me." Mark Lane Express, "A liberal supply of wheat and flour, and a moderate supply of oats and oatmeal, have arrived here since this day week from Ireland, with several parcels of grain coastwise; also 2000 quarters of wheat, with 1100 quarters of Indian corn from Trieste, and 200 quarters of beans from Egypt, but no grain or flour from America. The trade has been generally flat to-day. Sales of wheat
 30 d. d. d. s. s. 31 32 33 s. s.; s. s.; s.; s.; s.; s. s. s. 34 35 A laugh.
 MR. A. S. O'BRIEN  said, that so much anxiety existed out of doors in consequence of proceedings of a very extraordinary nature, as he must characterize them, which had taken place at the late South Nottinghamshire election, that he felt bound to take the earliest opportunity of calling the attention of the House to them. According to the accounts of the newspapers it appeared that the hon. Member for Malton, in addressing the electors of South Nottinghamshire from the hustings, stated—
 "That when Lord Lincoln wrote to ask for his support, he had answered, that if Lord Lincoln had come in his old office to ask for re-election on the ground of the Corn Laws, he had made up his mind, though not entirely agreeing with the Government measure, to give him without a reservation, and without a word, his cordial support. But as Lord Lincoln came in the new and responsible office of Secretary for Ireland, entertaining strong opinions, which he did, on certain points of policy, both as regarded Church and State affairs in Ireland, he could not offer the noble Lord an entire and cordial support without some explanation, in the first instance, as to the views with which he entered on that office. He had had a conversation with the noble Lord on Irish affairs, with which he was entirely satisfied; and, convinced that the noble Lord would enter on those high duties in a spirit of firm and liberal policy, he at once assured him of his cordial good wishes and earnest support." 99 100
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, as the hon. Member for Malton was not present, and as the hon. Member for Northamptonshire had moreover, in his strictures upon the conduct of the Earl of Lincoln, referred to sentiments entertained by him (Lord J. Russell), he thought it due as well to his hon. Friend as to his own public character, to make a short statement to the House. His hon. Friend the Member for Malton had communicated to him generally all that passed between him and the Earl of Lincoln on the occasion alluded to. He was not authorised to make any statement on the subject; but in justice to the Earl of Lincoln he felt bound to state that nothing which the noble Lord stated to his hon. Friend the Member for Malton implied any opinion that he was prepared to assist in the destruction of the Protestant Church in Ireland. Indeed, he believed his hon. Friend said little more than this—that he was for a firm and liberal policy as regarded the affairs of Ireland; that with regard to the particular measures in reference to that country he coincided with his Colleagues in the Cabinet in the course which they had hitherto pursued; to the future measures which it might be advisable to take he would prefer postponing an opinion until he had held the office of Secretary for Ireland some time longer. Those opinions, in his (Lord J. Russell's) opinion, were perfectly honourable to the noble Lord: whether they were satisfactory to the hon. Member for Malton was entirely a matter for the consideration of that hon. Member. It was to be considered likewise that the hon. Member for Malton had been long connected by ties of friendship with the Earl of Lincoln; that he entertained the highest respect for his character; and that it was that very respect which induced the hon. Member to make himself thoroughly acquainted with the noble Lord's views with reference to Ireland, in order to see whether the policy was likely to be such as he should be able to support. He did not
 102
 MR. O'CONNELL  had been extremely
 103
 Mr. J. S. WORTLEY  said, that Mr. Duncombe had misconceived the intention of the Act 4 and 5 William IV.; for, so far as the object being as he had stated, in 1834, when the Act was passed, an Amendment by Mr. Bernal, the Member for Weymouth, that it should be extended to other purposes than those  ejusdem generis
 MR. HAWES  urged on the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) the necessity of giving this Bill, at the earliest period, his best consideration; he also suggested whether or not the Bill ought to have a retrospective effect, so as to cover all those societies which might be registered now, but whose legality was rendered doubtful by the recent decision.
 MR. HENLEY  was extremely favourable to friendly societies; he believed they were of great value to the class of people who made use of them; but he feared the
 108
 MR. PHILIP HOWARD  complained of those Gentlemen who had lately on the hustings at public meetings indulged in epithets towards their Catholic fellow subjects, calculated to embitter the feelings which existed between Catholics and Protestants, and to fan the almost extinct flame of religious discord. For his own part, he thought Gentlemen as much bound to be cautious in their expressions on the hustings as in the drawing-room. He could not conceive why these Gentlemen should think fit to describe those as Papists, and their religion as Popery, who, in the Votes which he held in his hand, were called Roman Catholics. If such were the conduct of Gentlemen of education, and who professed to represent the aristocracy of the country, what was to be expected from the ignorant and the low? Protectionists or anti-protectionists, it was by courtesy and argument—not by vituperation and invective—that men would recommend
 104
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  moved the Second
 105 mandamus Legal Observer, "I am of opinion that this society is not a friendly society, and that the words 'or any other purpose not illegal,' in the second section of the 4th and 5th William IV., c. 40, must be construed so as to bear some relation to the declared objects of the Act—namely, for the mutual relief and maintenance of all and every the members there-of, their wives, children, &c., in sickness, infancy, advanced age, widowhood, or any other natural state or contingency whereof the occurence is susceptible of calculation by way of average. If these words were to receive a more extended construction, they would then include societies which it is not contended fall within the Act, namely, for insurance on lives, and numerous others. But there is an additional circumstance which leads me to this conclusion, which is, that the Legislature has passed distinct Acts for the regulation of loan societies, and I cannot make any real distinction between the societies framed under the 5th and 6th William IV., c. 23, and the present. That Act does not expressly provide for the case of loans to the members themselves; but I see nothing to exclude such a case from its operation, or to prevent rules from being framed to meet it. However that may be, at all events this does not appear to me to be a friendly society, and consequently the present rule must be discharged." 106 l. l., ejusdem generis,
 Mr. DUNCOMBE  assured the House, that as the object of the Act 4th and 5th William IV. was understood to extend the operations of friendly societies to all purposes not illegal, and as a construction had been put upon that Act at variance with this object, he only wished, by the present measure, to carry out the intentions of the original framers of that measure. The right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) had expressed his fears of political objects coming under the operation of this measure. He could only say that he had introduced the measure for no political purpose whatever; but, after all, political societies were not illegal, and he did not see any harm would be done, even if they were to come under its operation. Since he had brought in this Bill he had been overwhelmed with letters complaining of its defects, and asking him to introduce all sorts of amendments, but which he had declined to do, because it would require a new Act of Parliament to
 109
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that if the hon. Member (Mr. Duncombe) would put the Bill for Committee on Wednesday next, he (Sir J. Graham) would take the opportunity before that time of seeing Mr. Tidd Pratt, of conferring with the law officers of the Crown, and considering the effect of Mr. Justice Wightman's judgment. He would also confer with the hon. Member himself before Wednesday, and point out what alterations he wished in the Bill.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that no person could be more favourably disposed towards friendly and mutual benefit societies than he was; or be more willing to promote their extension. However, as he had not had any opportunity of conferring with Mr. Tidd Pratt on the subject, he thought it would not be proper to enter at once into the views of the hon. Member. There were considerable difficulties in the alterations he proposed. Any one looking to the Bill
 107 ejusdem generis, ejusdem generis,
 SIR J. GRAHAM  was anxious to take the earliest opportunity of explaining the answer given by him to the hon. and learned Member for Cork on Monday last. The House would remember that the hon. and learned Member, on Thursday, gave notice of two questions which he intended to ask him (Sir. J. Graham). He did not happen to see the precise terms of those questions, and had no opportunity of writing to the Lord Lieutenant till Friday evening; and, therefore, answered the questions on Monday before he had received the Lord Lieutenant's answer. The first question related to a deputation which was said to have waited on the Lord Lieutenant respecting the case of Bryan Seery. The hon. and learned Gentleman asked him whether it was true that a deputation had waited on the Lord Lieutenant on this subject, and had prayed that the sentence of death passed on that individual should be carried into effect. He had answered the hon. and learned Member's question on the best information which he could obtain before receiving the answer of the Lord Lieutenant; and had stated that a deputation from the county of Westmeath had made such a representation, and that he deeply deplored it, as being, in his opinion, harsh and unusual. He held in his hand the answer of the Lord Lieutenant, received on Monday morning. It was as follows:—
 "Dublin Castle, Feb. 22, 1846. "My dear Sir James—You may very safely affirm that the language of the deputation that waited upon me had not the slightest influence on my mind, nor swayed my judgment in the least in deciding upon the case of Seery; nor did I give the least encouragement or countenance to such interference. "But, in point of fact, the principal object of the deputation was to represent to me the lawless state of the county of Roscommon, and the neces-sitp of more stringent measures for its pacification; and it was only incidentally stated that any lenity shown to Seery would be considered as a proof of the weakness of the Government, and tend to encourage the perpetration of such atrocities, and to keep alive that sanguinary spirit so fatal to the peace of the country."
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that had it not been for the declaration made by the hon. Member at the close of his speech, he certainly should have felt some surprise at the hon. Member putting a question to him without having the courtesy to give him notice. It was quite possible that in the course of a few days the Earl of Lincoln might be in the House to answer any question which the hon. Member might think proper to put to him with respect to his conduct in reference to the Corn Laws; and he trusted that the noble Earl, in his seat in Parliament, would be able to explain his conduct on that subject fully and satisfactorily, both to the hon. Member and to the House. The hon. Member had referred to a conversation which was said to have taken place between the Earl of Lincoln and a Member of that House, during the Northamptonshire election, on the subject of Irish policy. With regard to that conversation he (Sir J. Graham) had no more information than the hon. Member himself, or any other Member of that House. He had had no opportunity of conferring with the noble Lord, and had received no explanation from him in reference to that conversation. As he read the report in the newspapers, the hon. Member for Malton declared that the communication which took place between himself and the noble Lord was satisfactory to the hon. Member. He did not know what the opinions of the hon. Member for Malton were with respect to Irish policy; they might be satisfactory to him and to Her Majesty's Ministers. On the other hand, the hon. Member for Malton might entertain opinions with which he could not concur. The hon. Member said he had much rather see the destruction of the Irish Church intrusted to the noble Lord opposite than to Her Majesty's present Government. He was not aware that the noble Lord was at all prepared to destroy that Church; at all events, he had never heard him make any such declaration. He had differed from the noble Lord as to the appropriation of a portion of revenue of the Irish Church; but it remained to be shown that the noble Lord was prepared, either
 101
 SIR R. INGLIS  thought the House greatly indebted to the hon. Member for Northampton for calling their attention to the conversation to which he had alluded, and sincerely wished the noble Lord the Member for the city of London had confined himself to the cordial cheer with which he greeted the statement of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, respecting his views as to the destruction of the Irish Church.
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  regretted that his hon. Friend the Member for Knaresborough was not in his place; because the hon. Gentleman had in his (Mr. Denison's) absence, alluded to him in a manner and in terms which he deeply regretted being obliged to say were in no way warranted. The hon. Gentleman had stated that the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, in doing him (Mr. Denison) the honour of asking him to second the Address at the opening of the Session, had deceived him as to the measures which the right hon. Baronet intended to propose. It was hardly necessary for him to say that the right hon. Baronet, if not the last man, was certainly one of the last men, in the country who would deceive any one. He (Mr. Denison) was bound to say that the right hon. Baronet had not directly or indirectly deceived him. He must take leave to add, that he joined in the wish which had been expressed by several hon. Gentlemen, that his hon. Friend the Member for Knaresborough would be more cautious in future when addressing the House in alluding to private individuals: so doing would
 132 133 
 
 AVERAGE IMPORTATION OF FOREIGN WHEAT. 
 Between 1791 and 1800 470,000 quarters. 
 Between 1801 and 1810 455,000 quarters. 
 Between 1811 and 1820 429,000 quarters. 
 Between 1821 and 1830 534,000 quarters. 
 Between 1831 and 1840 908,000 quarters. 
 Between 1841 and 1846 1,300,000 quarters. 
 
 In 1844 822,000 quarters. 
 In 1845 136,000 quarters. 134 s. s. "Within the last ten years, we had imported nearly 10,000,000 of quarters of corn, giving an average of nearly 2,000,000 quarters a year." 135 "No one could say that the people had been meanwhile at all overfed. If the population were to go on increasing for the ten years to come, as it had been during the ten years preceding, an annual average import of 3,000,000 quarters would not be greater than the country would require. Not only would not a single acre be thrown out of cultivation, but there would be a greater demand for the home-grown wheat than at present. The experience of the last thirty years had satisfied him that the rate of population advanced more rapidly than the rate of production, and that we must increase our imports of foreign corn." 136 137 138 139 140 l. l.
 MR. VILLIERS : Sir, I have some scruple in rising after the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, from observing the order in which you have selected Members who have risen to address this House. I believe the hon. Gentleman and myself are agreed at present in opinion; for, if I am not mistaken, coming recently as he does from the hustings and from addressing the farmers of Dorsetshire, he has stated there, representing as he did his own views and those of the farmers, that he was now for the immediate repeal of the Corn Laws. ["No, no!"] Then the hon. Gentleman has been entirely misreported; for there is not one newspaper that reported his Address which did not give sentiments to the effect that if there was to be a change in the Corn Law, he for one would be in favour of immediate repeal. The hon. Gentleman, it appears, now denies that he ever said in the county of Dorset that he was for immediate repeal.
 MR. VILLIERS : I am glad to see that the accuracy of the press is so well supported by the hon. Gentleman. I am
 188 189 190 191 192 193 Cries of from the Conservative benches. 194 Cries of Cries of in toto. 195 196 197 198 199 200 201 202 203 204 "These laws have deranged our monetary system, making numbers of our manufacturers bankrupts, checking the natural current of trade, and reducing thousands of families to misery and starvation; nor do they produce any real good to the great mass of our agricultural population; for those who till the earth, and make it lovely and fruitful by their labour, are only allowed the slave's share of the many blessings they produce." "That the labouring classes are in a state of great distress. That their condition has been getting worse for the last four years. That we find that disease and crime bear a relation to the price of food. That high prices of provisions compel the people to live on coarser food, thus injuring their health and abridging their comforts. That manufacturers and dealers are fast sinking, from an inability in the bulk of the pepulation to purchase from them those articles necessary to their existence. That we find that high wages and full employment are coincident with low prices of provisions, and that high prices of provisions are coincident with low wages and want of employment. 1052 families are supported by pawning, charity, or prostitution. 1017 families are supported by savings, credit, relations, and casual employment. Other families are now on the parish: out of 5,000 families, 3,600 come from the agricultural districts, not being able to find employment in their own districts." 205 s. s. s. s. s. s. 206 s. s. s. 
 
 Highest quality. Lowest quality. 
 April 31 s. 0 d. per quarter. 23 s. 5 d. per quarter. 
 May 32 0 per quarter. 24 0 per quarter. 
 June 33 0 per quarter. 25 5 per quarter. 
 July 30 0 per quarter. 20 0 per quarter. 
 Aug. 32 3 per quarter. 20 0 per quarter. 
 Sept 32 0 per quarter. 24 0 per quarter. 
 Oct. 29 6 per quarter. 23 5 per quarter. 
 Nov. 30 0 per quarter. 25 5 per quarter. 
 Dec. 29 0 per quarter. 28 0 per quarter. s. d., s., s., s. s. l. l. l. l. l. 207 l., l.; l. "In speaking of the consumption of Leicester, you say that the market has been falling off for two years. Are the Committee to understand that has been from the increasing poverty of the industrious classes of the country?—I do imagine that to be the case. Have the artisans been obliged to give more labour, and to do more work for the same wages in consequence of the pressure which has existed in Leicester?—Certainly, wages have been lower in consequence of it, and I never saw anything like the distress that there has been among the artisans employed in the town of Leicester. To what do you ascribe the decreased demand for their goods?—To the high prices of provisions, which have diminished the means of the labourer to purchase, because if his food takes a large proportion of his wages, it leaves him less to lay out in clothing, furniture, and other articles. Have you any experience, with respect to the demand for your goods, when provisions have been low? Yes; it is the invariable rule in our trade that when provisions are low, we have a good demand; it is a rule observed by the manufacturers, and established as a maxim in the trade. If the harvest is good, we may have a better home demand; but if we have a bad harvest, I do not know what will become of the population, for it will make corn high, and leave the workmen
 208 209 Quarterly Review, Standard, Herald. 210 211 212 213 214 215 216 in toto
 LORD J. RUSSELL  expressed a hope that the debate might be brought to a close to-morrow, on account of the very great length to which it had already extended.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that having failed in several attempts which he had made to address the House on the measure of the right hon. Baronet, he would now ask two or three questions. Before he did so, he could not help remarking on the extraordinary position in which the country was placed in consequence of the absence of so many of the allies of the right hon. Baronet from that House. There was at present no Secretary for the Colonies in that House; there was no Secretary for Ireland within the walls of that House; there was no Attorney General for Ireland—no Solicitor General for Ireland in that House. What a strange position the sister kingdom must feel itself in when hon. Gentlemen like himself had no opportunity of putting such questions as might be deemed necessary to those official persons! He had a right to presume that the office of the hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Colonies, was of great importance—the salary, he believed, was 5,000 l. l. 218 l. 219
 MR. D. R. ROSS  commenced the Adjourned Debate by referring to the speech of the hon. Member for Knaresborough (Mr. Ferrand). He proceeded: If the hon. Gentleman who spoke last had addressed himself to the question before the House, and not blinked it, I should have felt myself bound either to yield to his arguments, or to endeavour to answer them. But, I did not consider myself called on to deal with the late election in the West Riding of Yorkshire, nor to defend the Anti-Corn-Law League, nor to take up the cudgels for the manufacturers, nor to offer apologies for right hon. Gentlemen opposite, nor to make it appear that the hon. Member for Stockport never sold milk to his workmen. I think it is perfectly disgusting, to be forced to sit listening to such idle talk as has been indulged in, while famine has already begun the work of desolation, and the poor sufferers in Ireland are turning imploring looks to the Legislature for relief. If we are to argue, night after night, let us, at least, avoid the indecent delays occasioned by reiterated personalities. Why did not the hon. Member for Knaresborough show, or attempt to show, that the mass of the labouring population, whose advocate he has constituted himself, would be worse off under a system of free import than they now are? But his argument went only to show, that whereas the agricultural labourer is at present very poorly off, the manufacturing labourer, the better paid, is treated with cruelty and neglect; and that, in point of fact, the rich of all classes conspire against the poor. Now, I have attended to this debate, and, I must say, I have heard nothing which goes to show that the labouring classes, of whose earnings so large a proportion must be spent in food, would not be great gainers by a permanent diminution of the price of their daily bread. I don't deny, that the poor man's interest in protection, as it is called, has been strongly asserted; but has it been proved? Two or three noble Lords and hon. Gentlemen who have taken the protection side in this debate, have, indeed, claimed for its leading advocates the
 122 ergo 123 "It is trade that brings food and nourishment to the kingdom; it is that which preserves and increases the stock of the whole, and distributes a convenient portion of maintenance to every part of it; therefore, such obstruction as this must needs be dangerous; the freedom of trade being so necessary, the benefit so important, that it gives life, strength, and beauty to the whole body of the Commonwealth." 124 s. 125 126 l. s. d. l. l. l. l. l. 127 Laughter. l. 128 l. l. l. l. 129 l. s., l., s. 130 Blackwood's Magazine Væ victis! 131
 MR. CARDWELL  said, although it
 153 154 l. 155 156 157 158 159 160 s., s., s., s. s. s., s., s., s.; 161 "All systems either of preference or of restraint, therefore, being thus completely taken away, the obvious and simple system of natural liberty establishes itself of its own accord. Every man, as long as he does not violate the laws of justice, is left perfectly free to pursue his own interest his own way, and to bring both his industry and capital into competition with those of any other man,
 162 163 "Valuation made for County Rates in the Townships which now constitute the boroughs of Manchester and Salford:— 
 
 Manchester. Salford. 
 1815 353,376 918,397 
 1829 495,997 
 1841 1,022,055 2,703,292 
 Increase 189 per cent. 194 per cent." "Since the last return to Parliament in February, 1839, there has been an increase in my district of 529 factories, of 10,041 horses' power, and of 50,522 persons employed." "This increase has all taken place since November, 1842, when the revival of trade began; and indeed the increase of persons employed since that time must have been considerably greater than the above amount; for between June, 1838, when the collection of particulars for the return of 1839 began, and November, 1842, many mills had entirely ceased to work, and others had considerably reduced the number of their hands. The total number of power looms in my district, ascertained by this inquiry, is 142,949. The only return of power looms made to Parliament is that of 1835; and I find from it, that in the same parts of England which now constitute my district, viz. Lancashire, part of the West Riding, and the whole of the North Riding of the county of York, and the four northern counties of England, there were then only 63,861; showing an increase of 79,088 in the ten years; and there are now 26,237 more power looms at work in my district alone than there were in the whole United Kingdom ten years ago." 164 "Throughout the entire district general scarcity of hands is noticed, and a consequent rise of wages. In the silk districts particularly, hands are very scarce." "And I have been informed that instances are not wanting where children working half time have got as much wages, and in some cases it is said that they got more than they did when they worked ten hours; but I am told that a rise also has taken place in the wages of those who now work ten and twelve hours respectively." "Surprise has been expressed in the council when an increase of 100,000 tons was talked of some time since; but I have not now to deal with an increase of 100,000 tons, but with an increase of hundreds of thousands. In the dock financial statement of the 24th June, 1845, which was the end of the financial year, the increase was 383,819 tons over the preceding year. The increase in six months from June to the 31st December last, exceeded that of any previous period, inasmuch as it showed an increase of 600 vessels and 209,409 tons over the corresponding six months of the previous year. … The increase in the East India trade has been about 20 per cent, and the increase in the United States and western trade has been about 30 per cent." "I may also state, that in proportion as we afford increased dock accommodation, in the same proportion shall we draw trade to the port. Suppose that at no distant period—which I dare say will be the case—we were to have modified rates of duties on various other foreign productions (which he specified), which are at present virtually excluded by a high and impolitic tariff; when the duties are so reduced, it is not in the power of man to divine what accommodation will be required in a port like Liverpool. Liverpool will
 165 "One fact connected with the timber trade will show its importance to the country, and that is, that there are more artificers above eighteen years of age employed in the different ramifications of the timber trade, than in any other single trade that can be mentioned." 
 
 Years. Vessels. Tonnage. 
 1838 305 160,415 
 1839 339 170,591 
 1840 230 133,400 
 1841 318 174,948 
 1842 165 91,179 
 1843 311 154,518 
 1844 369 189,414 
 1845 453 239,854 
 
 Years. Vessels. Tonnage. 
 1838 72 22,788 
 1839 58 17,415 
 1840 48 14,000 
 1841 40 11,923 
 1842 33 11,239 
 1843 61 17,253 
 1844 51 14,144 
 1845 113 33,792 166 167
 MR. G. BANKES  moved the Adjournment of the Debate.
 MR. FINCH  said, he addressed the House with considerable hesitation, because he knew how weary it must be after the long debate; but as his constituency was anxious that he should deliver his sentiments, he would, with the permission of
 168 169 170 171 l. Morning Chronicle, 172 non sequitur. s. s. s. s. s. s. 173 174 Morning Post, "Question 1040—Corn is generally imported in foreign ships?—Yes. That is in consequence of the sliding-scale duties?—Yes, as far as it has reference to the Baltic; but I believe this, that if the Corn Laws were to be abolished to-morrow, it might create greater employment for our ships for the year, but ultimately it would only cause increased production and greater competition of foreign vessels, and we should go back as far as the Baltic is concerned. If we had a free trade in corn it would be most injurious to the British shipowner, for this reason, that by the new Tariff we shall have a vast quantity of corn by the St. Lawrence, which will be exclusively brought in British shipping? Mr. Liddell: That will be very beneficial to the British shipping? No doubt; an alteration in the Corn Laws would destroy the new trade that is about to spring up in Canada. Totally repeal the Corn Laws, and the growing trade with Canada will be crushed, consequently American, Canadian, and British shipping, would receive a severe and decisive blow." 175 "Suppose, as in the years 1833, 1834, 1835, there should be a succession of very good seasons, and a consequently large supply in this country, and also, as might naturally be expected, a plentiful harvest on the Continent. Now, under circumstances like these, the foreign market being overstocked, he would ask whether with a fixed duty the trader in corn might not be induced to bring over very large supplies, and after paying the duty offer it in the market at a price much below that of British growth? And would not this operate as a great discouragement to corn of home production, a great discouragement to agriculture, and cause a great deal of land to be thrown out of cultivation. Theoretically, and in the abstract, this magnificent plan might be
 176 "If they desired a low price of corn, let them
 177 "If when, after a lapse of four or five years, the price of corn should rise, because we shall be dependent upon foreigners, and because large quantities of land had been thrown out of cultivation, in vain would the unhappy labourers seek for a rise in the price of wages." s. s. s. s. 178 s. s. 179 180 181 182 "Now what does Mr. Meek say with regard to Denmark? The prices of corn in Denmark have, during the last twenty-five years, averaged for wheat 28s. 10d. per quarter, barley, 14s., oats, 10s. 6d. Considering the depression of the corn market during the greater part of that period, and that the prospect of a permanent sale of corn in England will be likely to render the continental markets more steady and more firm than they have hitherto been, it is probable that prices free on board would not be much below the following quotation—wheat from 30s. to 31s. per imperial quarter. And he adds that, in case of a regular and speedy demand in England for foreign corn, the quantity produced in Denmark and Sleswick Holstein might without difficulty be considerably increased. And in passing a law regulating the importation of foreign corn, is it not wise to deliberate upon what may be the possible supply in future years? Is it not a wise principle of legislation not to take wholly the prices of corn now, but to consider what may be the increased improvements by railways or otherwise: what may be the effect of a regular demand, and what may be the diminished freights? Ought we not to take all those things into account when we propose to legislate, without ever having the opportunity of retracing our steps, at least so far as the agriculturists are concerned. Mr. Meek says, further, that many experienced persons in Denmark are of opinion that if the trade in corn were made constantly open at a moderate duty, wheat and corn would generally be grown in Denmark to a much greater extent than it is at present. But you will say that the quantity grown in Denmark is insufficient to supply the wants of our population. Now, what does Mr. Meek say on this point? He tells us that the average export of wheat from Denmark is from 150,000 to 200,000 quarters; and Mr. Meek adds that 700,000 quarters of corn might be brought in years of moderate growth. …. Then, I say, if prices are below 50s. in England, and there is a great quantity of surplus wheat in Denmark, do not discourage home production—do not chill the expectations and blight the hopes of your own farmers, by permitting the Danish agriculturist to throw a quantity of his corn at a low rate of duty into your market, and so damage the price of your own produce. In discussing a question like this, I own it appears to me that the strict principles of free trade cannot be applied without danger to the interests of the community." "When you tell me that corn is 60s. a quarter, I ask is there not a paramount necessity for maintaining the obligations of public faith? And is it just to repeal the Cosn Laws while continuing taxation upon the agricultural interests, which is the very cause of the high price of corn? Can I shut out of my consideration altogether the operation of the malt tax—the operation of the Poor
 183 s. s. 184 s. bonâ fide
 MR. HUDSON  wished to make a single observation in explanation of a remark which had fallen from him in the course of that debate. He thought he had distinctly explained that when he spoke of 26 s. s. s. s. s.
 MR. SEYMER  said, in rising for the first time to address the House, he wished, if possible, to enlist the feelings of hon. Gentlemen in his favour by assuring them that his speech would not occupy many minutes. He did not mean to discuss the principle of protection; that had already been fully discussed on his side of the House. Had there not been frequent allusion made in the course of this debate, to the opinions of the tenant-farmers, he would not have risen on the present occasion. Hon. Members who had been elected for the last five or six years, appeared by this time to have forgot what were the opin-
 185 186 187
 MR. SEYMER  had no wish to be misunderstood on the point. What he said was, that he should oppose to the utmost the measures of Her Majesty's Ministers; but that if he failed in that opposition, he thought, on the whole, if repeal was to be carried out, that instead of being deferred three years, it would better it should take place at once.
 DR. BOWRING : I have great reason to complain of the observations of the hon. Member for Knaresborough. There were serious charges in his speech directed
 120
 MR. BRIGHT : I agree with the hon. Baronet that this is not a time to enter upon the discussion of this matter; but I am anxious to say a few words with respect to a statement which was made by the hon. Member for Knaresborough, bearing on the conduct of an intimate friend of mine who is not present to defend himself—I mean Mr. George Wilson, the chairman of the League. Now, I don't wish to go into any long details about the trade in starch, for I confess I do not well understand it; but I will take the liberty to say, that almost every portion of that which the hon. Member for Knaresborough stated as fact with respect to that gentleman, and every par-
 119
 MR. COLQUHOUN : I shall not follow the hon. Member for Durham into the question of starch, any more than I shall follow the hon. and learned Member for Bath in his lecture on personalities. I rise merely to say that I perfectly agree with the hon. Member for Oxford, that nothing could be more inconvenient than the course which the hon. and learned Member has adopted in raising a discussion of this kind on the reading of the Order of the Day. I am perfectly certain that the hon. Member for Knaresborough would not have shrunk from the discussion, had he been in his place; but I do not think it very convenient for the House to have a duplicate of the discussion raised upon the reading of the Order of the Day; and I do not think it fair, in the absence of the hon. Member for Knaresborough, to raise a question personal to himself, and to defend the character of gentlemen whose conduct he is said to have attacked. I can assure the hon. Member for Durham that the hon. Member for Knaresborough, when in his place, will be ready, I have not the least doubt, to defend all the statements he ever made. ["Oh, oh!"] I repeat that the hon. Member will be prepared to stand by what he has stated; but it will be much more convenient to take up this subject when the party is present, and when we are engaged in discussing the question to which his observations refer.
 MR. ROEBUCK , before the Order of the Day was read, wished that they could come to some understanding as to the time when this prolonged debate was likely to end. The reason why he asked this question was, that it appeared to him the debate had taken a turn by which it seemed there was a disposition among a certain party to waste the time of the House, rather than to improve it. It had been his unfortunate fate, with that of a great many other hon. Members, to be obliged to listen on Tuesday night to a Gentleman who, for a period of two hours and a half, had occupied the valuable time of the House in speaking upon a variety of topics that were relevant to any other subject than that upon which they were debating. He had heard the hon. Gentleman speak on that occasion in a manner that did not confer honour on that House, nor promote its character for decency or order, or add to its great commanding dignity, for the period of two hours and and a half—two mortal hours and a half by the clock. He was at a loss to understand how the hon. Gentlemen opposite could fancy that they were deriving an advantage to their cause
 116 117
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken seemed to imagine that there was something derogatory in a man's changing his mind. Now, he (Mr. Brotherton) had read in a good book, that "a wise man doubteth often, and changeth his mind, but he who is not wise is obstinate and perseveres in his error." The hon. Member had said that if the Corn Laws were not beneficial to the working classes he would repeal them, and that his only motive for supporting them was that he believed them to be beneficial to the people; and that he did not support them from a mixed motive of their being beneficial either to the farmer or the landlord. He had also adduced certain figures to prove that they must have been beneficial to the community at large, inasmuch as fewer persons were now fed on foreign corn, than at the time the Corn Law was enacted in 1815. He was at issue with the hon. Gentleman upon that point. The returns presented to the House showed that for the period from 1815 to 1821 only one in thirty of the population was fed upon foreign corn; that upon the average of ten years to 1831, one in twenty-two of the population were fed upon foreign corn; and upon the average of the ten years to 1841, one in sixteen and a half were so fed. If the hon. Gentleman would take a note of the quantity of wheat and wheat flour imported into this kingdom for the last eight years, he would find that one in ten of the population had to be fed upon foreign corn. Therefore if the Corn Laws
 141 142 s. s. l., s. l. s. l. 143 l. l. l. l. l. 144
 MR. SPOONER  said, that he cordially agreed with the noble Lord the Member for London, in hoping that the debate might terminate to-morrow night; but at the same time he could not give his consent to its so terminating, unless hon. Gentlemen had an opportunity of delivering their sentiments on this question. He was now speaking on the question of Adjournment. He had risen several times to address the House, but he had not succeeded in catching the Speaker's eyes. He wished to explain to the hon. Member for Wolverhampton the motives which would actuate him in giving his support to the Amendment of the hon. Member for Bristol. He would not undertake to address the House at that hour. Representing, as he did, a large manufacturing population, he would require to have an opportunity of explaining the grounds upon which he would vote. He could not go on now. His object was to permanently lower the price of food; and his objection to the present measure was, that it would delude the people by holding out that bread would be cheap when it would be relatively dear. He agreed with the noble Lord that the debate had lasted long enough; but he could not give his consent to its being concluded unless he had an opportunity of explaining his views.
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  was induced to offer a few observations on a question in which he was much interested. He should,
 145 146 147 148 149 150 151 s. s. 
 
 Years. England. Dantzic. 
 s. d. s. d. 
 1836 48 6 28 7 
 1837 55 10 29 0 
 1838 64 7 49 0 
 1839 70 8 53 0 
 1840 66 4 52 0 
 1841 64 4 52 6 
 1842 57 3 53 0 
 1843 50 1 39 0 
 1844 51 3 
 1845 11 months 50 10 26 6 s. s. d., s. d. "Do you think the production of corn in this country would be diminished?—I think the production of corn in certain parts which have been forced into corn cultivation would be diminished, but not otherwise. You do not think the soil would cease to be used?—No, I believe that the rents of lands, generally speaking, in this country would gradually increase, in consequence of the
 152
 MR. W. B. FERRAND  said, that he had been informed that a personal attack was made on him that evening by no less than four Members on the other side of the House. He had received no intimation that such an attack was meditated, or he should have been present to repel it. He begged then to state that he should be
 217
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, he did not think the hon. and learned Member who had just spoken was out of order, because if he were liable to such a charge the Speaker would have interrupted him. He, however, accused the hon. and learned Gentleman of setting a most inconvenient precedent, which if fully followed, would give an opportunity for every individual to repeat his speech a second time in the House. He accused the hon. and learned Gentleman of having taken advantage of the absence of the hon. Member to make
 118 "Quis tulerit Gracchos de seditione querentes."
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  said, as this discussion had been raised, he would read a letter which he had received on the subject of one statement of the hon. Member for Knaresborough. It was from the operatives of Union Mill, whose attention had been attracted by a statement of the hon. Member to the effect that many of the operatives had been compelled by their masters to sign petitions against the Corn Laws. The letter accompanied some petitions, and it said—
 "You will receive herewith three petitions; they are signed as free as the air we breathe, and so, as far as we know, have been all the petitions on the same occasion. We make this statement in consequence of what has been said by Mr. Ferrand; and we can say more:—we are more
 121
 MR. O'CONNELL : Though I have been often the subject of debate in this House, I thought it hardly possible that my name could be dragged into this discussion. The hon. Gentleman is not correct as to his facts, and he supplied by his imagination the defects of his memory. I was not accused of calumniating any Member of this House. I spoke of a system as being characterized by frequent instances of perjury. That was determined to be a breach of the privileges of this House. I was censured accordingly by the late Speaker, who read me a lecture, and the moment he had done, I repeated my words. The House has since confirmed my words, for it has changed this tribunal. I was a martyr in working out the cause, of truth and justice on the occasion alluded to, and am obliged to the hon. Gentleman for giving me an opportunity of saying so.
 MR. CRAVEN BERKELEY  said: I rise, Sir, to corroborate the statement of the hon. Member for Knaresborough, in his statement as to the manufacturing of petitions. Now, Sir, I hold in my hand a petition which was presented at my residence by the postman on Wednesday last. It purports to be from Cheltenham, and there are 594 signatures. But my attention was attracted by seeing the post-mark. "Manchester," instead of Cheltenham. I immediately sent the petition to the town of Cheltenham, and wrote to my Agent
 237 "Cheltenham, Feb. 20, 1846. "Sir—I knew nothing of the petition referred to in your letter of yesterday's date. I have signed no petition, and certainly have not authorized any body to sign it for me; and as I know no other person in Cheltenham of the name but myself, I doubt the honesty of the petition, and would with great respect caution you in acting upon it. I suspect but one person who would use my name, and he may possibly may have done so for his own purposes." "Cheltenham, Feb. 20, 1846. "I have perused the petition from Manchester. It contains some signatures which were genuine; but I venture say they never were put to the present petition. I have seen Mr. Perry, the miller, at Alston-mill, whose name appears in the first sheet of the petition. He says he never heard of it before, though he would certainly have signed a petition for the immediate repeal of the Corn Laws. Most of the names seem to me forgeries, or at all events not written by the parties represented. I don't think the petition ought to be presented as that of the inhabitants of Cheltenham. I never heard of it before, nor have I met with any householder that ever did." 238
 LORD G. BENTINCK : Sir I can assure the House that, in asking for its patience, while I endeavour to answer some
 304 305 s. 306 "On a full consideration of the present state of public affairs, I have come to the determination of proroguing Porliament, with a view to its immediate dissolution. The paramount importance of the trade and industry of the country, and my anxiety that the exigencies of the public service should be provided for in the manner least burdensome to the community, have induced me to resort to the means which the Constitution has entrusted to me, of ascertaining the sense of my people upon matters which so deeply concern their welfare." 307 308 d. d. "The result was, that the price of English wool instantly rose higher, and for the next five years, continued higher than it was ever known before." 309 d. d. s. d. d. d. s. d. s. s. d. d. d. d. d. l.; d. 310 s. d. s. d., s. d.; s. d.; s. 8d.; s. d.; s. d., 
 
 1844. 1845. 
 Fresh Beef £1 14 9 £2 2 9 
 Salt Beef 3 18 2 6 8 8 
 Pork 3 15 10 6 12 0 311 
 
 Contract price of meat, per 8lbs. 
 1841—3 s. 6 d. Average of two years previous to the passing of the new Tariff, 3 s. d. 
 1842—4 s. 1 d. 
 1843—3 s. 2 d. Average of four years subsequent to the passing of ditto, 2 s. d. 
 1844—2 s. 7½ d. 
 1845—2 s. 11 d. 
 1846—3 s. 2 d. 
 
 Contract price of meat. Cwt. 
 1840—47 s. 6 d. Average of two years antecedent to the passing of the new Tariff, 47 s. d. 
 1841—46 s. 8 d. 
 1842—49 s. 0 d.  Average of four years subsequent to ditto, 41 s. d. 
 1843—37 s. 4 d. 
 1844—37 s. 3 d. 
 1845—42 s. 11 d. 
 1846—46 s. 8 d. 
 
 Beef per stone. 
 1840—6 s. 6 d. Average, 6 s. d., 
 1841—7 s. 0 d. 
 1842—6 s. 6 d. Average subsequent to the new Tariff; 5 s. d. 
 1843—5 s. 3 d. 
 1844—6 s. 6 d. 
 1846—6 s. 0 d. 312 s. s. s. s. d. d. 313 Were hundreds of thousands of silk manufacturers thrown out of employment? Have the poor rates been burdened for their subsistence? Have we been unable to compete with foreigners? In the decennial period ending in 1823, the quantity of silk entered for home consumption was 19,409,023 lb.; for the ten years ending 1833, 39,681,248 lb., immediately after the reduction of the duty; for the ten years ending 1843, 52,007,118 lb. The aggregate annual consumption of the successive decennial periods was 1,940,000 lb., for the ten years ending 1823; 3,968,124 lb., for the ten years ending 1833; 5,200,711 lb., for the ten years ending 1843, a further reduction of duty having taken place in 1842; whereas now the consumption, which for the ten yours ending in 1823 was 1,940,902 lb., is now (for the single year 1844) 6,208,028 lb. Which is the true philanthropist? Is it the man who cries out against the admission of French papers? Was it the man who cried out against the admission of French silks? Or, was it the Minister who said, 'Good God! don't suppose I do not sympathize with distress. Don't load me with the reproach of causing ruin to thousands when I am endeavouring to benefit them!' I have seen Spitalfields at the point of starvation; let me trace the cause of such calamities, and try whether by bringing in the free air of competition, I cannot diminish or remove the sources of such calamities." 314 s. d. d. d. s. d. s. d. s. s. d., s., s. d.; s. d.
 LORD J. MANNERS  said: I cannot see how any testimony of mine in favour of the admirable manner in which Mr. Ashworth
 247
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I am one of those who very much regret that my hon. Friend the Member for Knaresborough should think it his duty on several occasions to make attacks on gentlemen whom I call members of the manufacturing body. I entirely differ with him in his general views on that subject. I have often, indeed, remonstrated with him upon the subject. But this I can say, that my hon. Friend says the same things out of the House as he says in it. He is honest. He is sincere. It is his conviction. He believes he is fulfiling his duty; and I cannot see that in the way he has executed it upon the present occasion, he has done anything to call forth the expression of disapprobation, on the part of the House. Now, Sir, with regard to the several individuals whose names have been brought into the discussion: take, for instance, Mr. George Wilson, chairman of
 243 244 Hansard 245 246
 MR. ESCOTT  should give his vote on this great question, in the full hope that the course he had elected would tend to the future advantage of the country, and with a full consideration of what public honour required. [ Interruption from some Protection Members. 263 264 Cries of 265 266 267 Quieta non movere. Quieta non movere. 268 l. l. l. 269 270 271
 MR. B. ESCOTT  gave the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Ferrand) notice that he should in the debate coming on attempt to vindicate the character of some persons whom the hon. Gentleman attacked, and he gave him this notice that he might be present or not as he chose.
 THE SPEAKER , who, said, that it was contrary to the rules of the House for an hon. Member to read from any paper which referred to a debate in that House.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP , seeing the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury in his place, would at once rise to put the question to him of which he had given notice. The right hon. Baronet had not chosen to answer the question last night. Now, he did not complain of the absence of that courtesy which he was always anxious to receive as an independent Member of that House. To himself personally it was quite indifferent; but to the large and respectable constituency which had done him the honour of sending him there as their Representative, he felt that he was entitled to receive an answer to any question he felt it his duty to put. He owed it
 226
 MR. BANKES , in resuming the Adjourned Debate, said: Sir, I must in one respect regret the delay that has taken place in resuming the adjourned debate this night, be cause I concur in the wish that has been so generally expressed that we shall this night go to a division. As far as I am concerned, I certainly will not be the occasion of much delay, for I do not intend to follow the example of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton who has preceded me in the debate. I will not most assuredly rival that hon. Gentleman in the length of his speech; and I cannot avoid remarking, that when that hon. Gentleman complained of delay, he ought not to have accompanied the complaint with a speech which to such an extent postponed our arrival at the conclusion which he expressed such a desire to attain. I do not regret, upon this occasion, that the measure now before us has been preceded by one that is really for the relief of Ireland—a measure that is intended and calculated to meet and abate the misery and calamity that have arisen in Ireland. It is calculated, I believe, to meet the present emergency; whilst the greater measure that has been forced on our attention has nothing to do with that calamity, and has not any bearing upon it. I am glad that we may now understand that we are in a condition calmly to consider whether this great measure, forced upon our attention, is one that is fit for our adoption, and that this measure is no longer to be involved in its discussion with the question of the present deficiency of food in Ireland. We are not, as I trust, any longer to be called to do that which ought never even to have been suggested—namely, that a permanent measure should be enacted to meet a temporary inconvenience. I do not see how the two things could ever have been combined together,
 250 rose to leave the House. 251 252 253 254 Times Cries of l. l. l. 255 256 257 "Now fitted the halter, now traversed the cart, And often took leave, but seemed loth to depart." "I will now give an authority which no man will be inclined to dispute. Algernon Sidney, in his 'Discourse concerning Government,' said—speaking of the power of delegates—'It is not, therefore, for Kent or Sussex, Lewes or Maidstone, but for the whole nation, that the Members chosen in these places are sent to serve in Parliament; and though it be fit for them, as friends and neighbours, to hearken to the opinion of their electors for the information of their judgment, and to the end that what they shall say may be of more weight, yet they are not strictly and properly obliged to give an account of their actions to them. And,' he added, 'the only punishment (and this was a very material point for the House to observe) to which they are subject, if they betray their trust, is scorn, infamy, hatred, and an assurance of being rejected when they shall again seek the same office.'" "The exciting cause, a physician would say, of the French revolution was the spirit of innovation, which, like a malady, overspread France at that crisis, precipitated all classes into a passion for changes, of which they were far from perceiving the ultimate effects; and the most ardent in the cause of innovation were those whose fortunes were about to perish from its effects. The young
 258 "His private character was unexceptionable. Possessed of immense wealth, he made a noble use of it—liberal without either pride or prodigality. He would have been a perfect citizen had it not been for a vein of ostentation and a secret vanity, which afterwards, by making him sacrifice every thing to his love of popularity, brought unheard-of disasters on the monarchy." "Had Turgot united to those great and good qualities (for a better and greater minded man there never lived), an adequate knowledge of human nature, he would have been an invaluable Minister. But, unhappily, he laboured under one great defect, which, not only proved his own ruin, but rendered him the most dangerous guide. He was entirely ignorant of human nature; was rigid and unaccommodating in his ideas; and pursued his designs without any consideration of the effect they were to produce either upon the persons likely to be injured, or those intended to be benefited by his reforms." 259 260 261 262
 DR. BOWRING : I think I am called on to say a few words, and they shall be very few. The hon. Gentleman complains that he was not answered immediately after he sat down—that I was present, and did not rise to reply to him. Now the hon. Gentleman detailed accurately the sufferings of a portion of the labouring community in Bolton and its neighbourhood. He spoke of the miserable way in which the people were fed, clad, and housed, and of the wretched wages which they were enabled to get. He introduced the name of Mr. Henry Ashworth, and mentioned him as an individual who was mainly instrumental in removing large numbers of the agricultural population to Bolton and its neighbourhood, and thereby directly causing the distress of which he made such complaint. He appealed to the House against what he called the "cold-blooded cruelty of this Quaker." And what is his statement now? Why, that he never referred to Mr. Henry Ashworth at all. [Mr. FERRAND: No.] The hon. Gentleman says to-night that the scenes which he described took place in Mr. Ashworth's neighbourhood, in some mills away from his abode, and he completely disconnected Mr. Ashworth's name from the cruelty
 241
 MR. BRIGHT : The hon. Member for Cheltenham has done what he could to corroborate the statement of the hon. Member for Knaresborough. I believe that no one Member can be more willing than another that a case like that should receive the fullest possible investigation. I recommend him to move for a Committee to inquire, and I shall be most glad to second the Motion, and to join him or any other Member upon the Committee in sifting the case most thoroughly. The hon. Member for Knaresborough has endeavoured to answer the attack which he says I made upon him; but he has merely recited what he said a few nights before, giving us, in addition, a letter he has had in his pocket for some two years, as a proof that his assertions were correct. Now, I am prepared still to say, that I believe every part of his statement is utterly unfounded. I have here a letter from Mr. Rawsthorne, whose name has been mentioned, and who formed one of the deputation to the Board of Trade respecting the duty on starch. He states distinctly, that Mr. George Wilson did not issue the circular requesting the starch manufacturers to assemble in Manchester—that Mr. George Wilson did not act as chairman of the meeting. That is the reply to two of the statements the hon. Member has made. He denies that any meeting of the kind took place, and consequently that no deputation proceeded from such meeting, either of individual members of the council of the League, or of any other gentlemen. It is true, he adds, that two other gentlemen and himself waited upon the Minister, but that Mr. Wilson was not one of them—that they proceeded to London, their object being not to seek protection; and this was clearly stated at the interview with the Board of Trade. If they were permitted to use the raw material, wheat, free of duty, that was all they desired, and not any protective duty whatever on the manufactured article, starch; they only asked a duty equivalent to that which was proposed to be levied on the raw material. The following is an extract from the memorial
 239 s. Morning Post? Morning Post, Morning Post 240
 MR. FIELDEN  said, many of the speeches of that House would be found objectionable, if subjected to the same scrutiny as that applied to his hon. Friend's (Mr. Ferrand's). If hon. Gentlemen in that House would read more and talk less, it would be much to the advantage of the country. With reference to the statements of the hon. Member for Knaresborough, he could only say there were facts contained in them which could not be denied — facts founded on evidence before that House, which his hon. Friend thought it his duty to state. In the year 1834, both Mr. Ashworth and Mr. Greg wrote to the Poor Law Commissioners, requesting that labourers from the southern districts should be sent to the north, for the avowed and express purpose of equalising the wages of the manufacturing artizans. Those letters caused a strong sensation at the time among the working population; for they understood by the term "equalising" the reduction of their wages to the level of that paid in the agricultural counties. On the recommendation and request contained in these letters the Poor Law Commissioners acted, and established an office in Manchester for facilitating the immigration of labourers from the south of England. It had been proved that no less than 10,000 of those labourers had been sent in consequence into the manufacturing districts; but at length the Commissioners relinquished their scheme, and the office in Manchester over which Mr. Muggeridge presided had been given up. As to the cruelties committed in the factories, if hon. Members referred to the Report of Sir Robert Peel's Committee in 1816—if they looked to the Reports of Mr. Sadler, and of the Factory Commissioners, owing to which the Factory Bill of Lord Althorp
 248
 CAPTAIN GLADSTONE : If I had succeeded, Sir, in catching your eye at an earlier period of the debate, I should not have ventured to enter at any length upon the question before the House, much less shall I do so at this protracted period, when every argument and illustration that could be brought to bear upon the subject has been exhausted, and endless statistics quoted, some of them pressed into the service and obliged to do double duty, thus proving the most opposite conclusions. I shall, therefore, confine myself to stating very briefly the reasons which induce me to vote for the Amendment of my hon. Friend the Member for Bristol. Before I do so I trust I may be allowed, in common with other hon. Members who have preceded me, to express the deep and painful regret which I feel at being compelled to vote against Her Majesty's
 272 273 274 275
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  had already expressed his regret for having used the expression. The hon. Baronet had spoken of the duty which he (Mr. J. O'Connell) owed to society; but it was in the discharge of that very duty which he owed society that he had originally used those strong expressions.
 MR. JOHN O'CONNELL  begged leave to call the attention of the House to a breach of its privileges, which had been committed by a newspaper, in which he, as a Member of that House, had been accused of having given notice of a Motion in the House, of which he was afterwards so ashamed as to have felt himself compelled to withdraw it. Now, he denied that assertion totally. He trusted he had never done anything either in or out of the House, and he certainly trusted he had never said or done anything in the House, of which he had cause to be ashamed. He had not withdrawn the notice of Motion which he had given under any such feeling. The matter had arisen out of the case of Bryan Seery. He had ascertained that a deputation had waited on the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland for the purpose of praying that that unfortunate man should be put to death. He had then given notice of his intention to move for the names of the persons who had formed that deputation. In giving that notice, he had used very strong expressions, but not stronger than, in his opinion, the case deserved. The Speaker had privately called his attention to the fact, and in a friendly manner had informed him that in such a case the expressions would be not merely his (Mr. J. O'Connell's own); but by allowing them to remain on the Votes, the effect would be, that of pledging the House to the use of those very strong terms. He at once yielded; and, in order not to commit any irregularity, he had altered the words of his Motion. But he did not think the case had been met by the right hon. Baronet opposite, in the explanation he had given the other day. The right hon. Baronet had stated, that the case of Seery had been mentioned only incidentally by the deputation that had waited on the Lord Lieutenant. That was no answer to the
 225
 MR. ROEBUCK : I think I was perfectly justified, by all the rules of courtesy observed in this House, in presuming that the hon. Member, who occupied two hours and a half of the last hours of the debate of one night in a very fierce attack on Members on this side of the House,—["No, no;"]—yes, and on persons out of this House, who could only be defended by those who sit here—would, as a mere matter of fairness, be in his place to hear the answer which could be made to his vituperation. If he was not here, the fault was the hon. Member's. An opportunity was afforded me by the forms of the House of complaining of the way in which the time of the House had been wasted. I availed myself of it, as it was my right to do, and I complained of the language of the hon. Gentleman. And now, Sir, I shall not attempt to answer the sort of attempted sarcasm in which the hon. Gentleman has indulged with respect to me. It is an attack on me for what he is pleased to call my failure in life. If I have failed, Heaven forbid I should attempt to deprive the hon. Member of so noble a topic of congratulation! But I will say, that in all my misfortunes never has it been my fate to have a body of Gentlemen assembled in England declare that which I stated to be a falsehood and a calumny. The resolution passed by this House has descended to posterity on its records, branding a Member of it with being guilty of unfounded calumny with respect to two Members of this House. The hon. Member says he founded his belief of a calumnious statement, which he uttered in this House, on a resolution passed by certain persons in the town of
 242
 MR. BORTHWICK  said: I can assure hon. Gentlemen I have no choice in this matter; I am under the necessity of voting not silently, but with a very brief explanation of the grounds of my vote; and I put it to the House whether they will not hear me. If I had had the good fortune to obtain a hearing at an earlier hour, I might have taken the liberty of making a few remarks on the able speech of the hon. Member for Winchester; but
 297 298 299 300 301 "It was at that period, that those events took place in a neighbouring country (France) which exhibited to the world physical force triumphant over established Government—those events which led to a great revolution, not alone in that country, but in Europe; and which finally expelled a second time from the throne of that kingdom the elder branch of the House of Bourbon. Gentlemen, those events made a most profound impression throughout the whole of Europe. It agitated all countries in Europe—it led to revolution in some of them, and none escaped their great influence. This country was not exempt from it, and the consequence was a fundamental alteration in the Constitution of the House of Commons. Gentlemen, I then foresaw—for the alteration was accompanied by a useless and eager desire for still further change—I then, I say, foresaw the good that might result from laying the foundation of a great Conservative party in the State, attached to the fundamental institutions of the country, not opposed to any national change in it which the lapse of years or the altered circumstances of society might require, but determined to maintain on their ancient footing and foundation, our great institutions in Church and State. Gentlemen, the great object of my public life was not to gain for myself a position of political, that is to say, of official power, but to build up that great party which has been gradually acquiring strength in this country, which has been gradually widening the foundations on which it stands; that great party which has drawn from time to time its support from its opponents; that party which at first, not exceeding 100 in number, now presents a compact phalanx of 300 Members of Parliament—a body, too, Gentlemen—not even so strong in point of numbers as it is strong in the confidence of the country." "I may not be strong in your confidence," continued the right hon. Gentleman, addressing the party who caused the interruption, "I see here below me two or three boys and girls who deny my proposition; but still I say that the Conservative party have the confidence of the great proportion of the intelligence and respectability of the country." 302 Et tu Brute! 303
 MR. COBDEN  felt very happy in having the opportunity of expressing his feelings on the remarks of the right hon. Baronet. At the time the occurrence took place he felt—he might say the country felt too—that the right hon. Baronet had not made that distinct disavowal of the imputations which had been long expected. Still the matter itself had been also so extraordinary that there might have been much room for mistake, though it would hardly have borne the interpretation which had been put upon it. He took the present ample and distinct disavowal of the right hon. Gentleman as entirely satisfactory. He was glad the right hon. Baronet had made it; for it had given him an opportunity quite as pleasant
 249
 MR. COBDEN : I assure the House that it is impossible for me to trespass long upon their notice, but I am anxious to say a few words before the close of this protracted debate. I have had the good or the ill fortune to listen to many debates upon this subject in this House, and although it has not been my fate to listen to this, at all events I have had the merit of perusing every word of it. On former occasions I have had to complain, that although
 276 277 278 279 280 281 282 l. 283 naïveté "He (Mr. Seymer), with his hon. Colleague, came forward at the recent election for Dorset, in consequence of a requisition signed by the great body of the tenant-farmers. Three or four of the largest properties in the county were in the hands of free traders, and naturally the tenants on those estates held back, and refused to sign the requisition till they knew what were the wishes of their landlords; for it was notorious that English tenants generally wished to consult the feelings of their landlords. He (Mr. Seymer) did not think tenants to blame for that. Knowing that their landlords were free traders, the tenantries in question made inquiry, previous to signing, whether those landlords would object to their taking the course their consciences dictated; the landowners, very much to their credit, said, that this being a farmer's question, they would not interfere, and then, almost without exception, the farmers on those properties signed the requisition." 284 s. 285 l. l., s. s. 286 s. 287 Standard "Under what head then is the farmer to look for relief? Under the head rent. The landlord must reduce rent; but the farmer knows, by rather bitter experience, the process by which this reduction must be effected. He must be first himself rendered unable to pay rent, and then the landlord will yield, and not before." Standard 288 "I have for many years been connected with the management of landed property, and with the purchase and letting of estates in several different counties, and am at this time negotiating for the renewal of leases and letting of lands in Bedfordshire, Herts, and Essex. In the latter county the tenant who has occupied a farm of 500 acres for fourteen years under a lease, and who has always spoken of his rent as somewhat high, and of his own farming as the best in his own neighbourhood, has now offered a considerable increase of rent (15 per cent) for a new lease of fourteen years, and to covenant to underdrain two-thirds of the farm, the landlord finding draining tiles, now acknowledging that the cultivation may be greatly improved, so as to meet the increase of rent. The farmer has another occupation, and is not, therefore, under any fear of being without a farm. He is a protectionist in words, and a supporter of Sir John Tyrrell. Under the rumour that this farm might be given up, there were eight or ten most respectable applicants for it. In Hertfordshire I am at this moment renewing leases upon two large farms, both with the offer of increased rents, and with covenants for greatly improved cultivation, particularly as to under-draining. In Bedfordshire upon two moderate-sized farms the same has been the result; and on the application for one of them, which the farmer is quitting in consequence of age and infirmity, the following conversation took place on the application to me by an intelligent farmer for the farm: 'I understand, Sir, that you have the letting of Mr. L.'s farm, as he is quitting.—I have. I should like to have the offer of it; my name is—, and I can refer you to the clergyman of my parish, and to several gentlemen, for my character and responsibility. You are, I presume, a farmer?—Yes, Sir; I have one farm, and I should like another to extend my occupation, as I have sufficient capital. You know the farm, I presume, and the rent which the present tenant pays.—Yes, Sir, I know the farm and the rent; and as we are no longer to have any protection, and the Corn Laws must now be repealed, I hope you will consider that point in the rent. Pray, as you say that the Corn Laws will be repealed, what, in your judgment, will be the effect?—Why, Sir, the first will be the waking up of thousands of farmers who have hitherto been asleep; and we must look to increased efforts and increased production. With respect to rent, I must have a small increase, and I must require covenants for better cultivation, more especially as to underdraining, which must be done very extensively.—Sir, my intention is, if I have the farm, to underdrain the whole of it,
 289 s. s. 290 291 "He thought taxes were imposed only for the service of the State. If they were necessary for the service of the State, in God's name let them be paid; but if they were not necessary, they ought not to be paid, and the Legislature ought not to impose them." 292
 MR. SPOONER  said, that the hon. Member for Stockport began his address by stating that in all former Corn Law debates, much extraneous matter had been introduceed; but that there had been more in this than in any former one. It appeared, however, that he was determined to follow the example, for he (Mr. Spooner)
 293 l. l. l. 294 from the Ministerial benches. Hansard Hansard Hansard 295 Hansard. "We naturally look to those whose study is the wealth of nations, for a remedy; but they are occupied only with general truths. The transition from one state of employment to another does not seem to occupy their thoughts. They keep their eyes fixed on the end, and do not afford us any defence against the evils to be met with on their way. Whatever your complaint is, they repeat their abstract dogma, and a nation may be ruined before it can hope to have the benefit of their precepts. Adam Smith was, to a great degree, free from this error. In laying down the principle of free trade, he says, 'There are two cases when it may be advantageous to lay some burden upon foreign for the encouragement of domestic industry. First, when some particular sort of industry is necessary for the defence of the country; secondly, when some tax is imposed at home upon the produce of domestic industry, it may be sometimes a matter of deliberation how far and in what manner it is proper to restore the free importation of foreign goods, when particular manufactures, by means of high duties or prohibitions, have been so far extended as to employ a great multitude of hands. Humanity may in this case require that the freedom of trade should be restored only by slow gradations, and with a good deal of reserve and circumspection.' These are wise restrictions; but they tend so much to limit the action of political economy, that many of its modern professors seem to throw them entirely aside. If any one objects to their sweeping laws, that numbers will be thrown out of employment, they wonder at the ignorance which does not know that if one employment is lost, another and a better will be found; yet, in spite of this clamour, a temperate man knows that the process of converting silk weavers into blacksmiths, or farmers into cotton spinners, is one of pain and suffering. A want of attention to the distinctions and modifications required by the divisions of the world into many independent nations is apparent. Were there no such thing as war—no such thing as commercial disputes — no such thing as a national debt—it might be easy for the Ministers of different communities to come to an understanding to regulate the world according to the rules of commercial liberty; but the existing fact is—that every nation is obliged to guard its independence with the utmost jealousy; to avoid, with the greatest care, putting itself under the control of any other Power; and to check its industry by taxes, which are absolutely necessary for the preservation of its separate existence." 296
 MAJOR BERESFORD : The hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Roebuck) says I was one of those against whom corrupt practices were proved. I deny that the hon. and learned Gentleman established a single case of bribery against me; and I certainly consider that I was on that occasion unjustly and acrimoniously attacked.
 MR. FERRAND : Sir, I am about to claim for a very few minutes the attention of the House while I defend myself against a personal attack which was made on me last night by no less than four Members who sit on the other side of the House. As I said at the conclusion of the debate last night, if I had received the slightest intimation of the course those hon. Members were going to take, I should have been here in my place to meet any attack. I should also have been here at the reading of the first Order of the Day yesterday, but for a particular engagement elsewhere. Sir, in the first place, I have to thank an hon. and gallant Member who sits on the opposite benches for the very handsome manner in which he stood forward to defend me, against what I have no hesitation in calling a most unmanly attack; and I have also to tender my thanks to the hon. Baronet (Sir R. Inglis), and another hon. Friend of mine (Mr. Colquhoun), who sit immediately below me, for the part they took in my behalf in my absence. Sir, when I addressed the House the other night, I made no statement that I did not solemnly believe to be true; and I feel thoroughly convinced that I shall be now able to justify every expression I then used, and for which I have been attacked by those four hon. Members to whom I refer. Sir, the attack was commenced by the hon. and learned Member for Bath. I think his remarks were so personal that they carried along with them their own antidote; and, therefore, it is scarcely necessary for me to allude to it any further than to say that I think the hon. and learned Member for Bath was the last person in this House who ought to have made use of the following expression, which I believe I shall quote correctly:—
 "I am quite sure that if this House is in any way whatever to maintain its dignity or command respect, it is not by vulgar vituperation, indecent menace, or violent language." The Times 230 "But, I would ask, what is the worth of that hon. Member's opinion? I will measure it by the ordinary test which is applied in my own profession. Would any one give, I do not say a guinea, or even half a guinea, but even half a crown, or half a farthing, for any opinion he could express upon gentlemen's conduct?" "I will take the liberty to say that almost every portion of that which the hon. Member for Knaresborough stated as fact with respect to that gentleman was utterly untrue. Mr. Wilson never called a meeting of the starch manufacturers, having reference to the question of protective duties; he never presided at such meeting; he formed no part of a deputation who came up to Government on the subject." "The Chairman of the Anti-Corn-Law League convened a meeting at Manchester of all the starch-dealers in the kingdom, at which he presided, and a resolution was adopted to the effect, that a deputation should go from the meeting to the right hon. Baronet, and use their influence with him in favour of starch. The deputation waited on the right hon. Baronet, and were successful; and I believe that lobsters and starch were the only things which obtained the slightest mercy in the Tariff" "I take the liberty of troubling you with a few particulars, which, I think, will show to you the sort of disinterested reformers some of the leading members of the Anti-Corn-Law League are. You will please to satisfy yourself of the correctness of this statement before you make any public use of it. When Sir R. Peel published his new Tariff, he put down starch at 5 l. l. 231 l. Manchester Guardian, 232 Bolton Chronicle,
 MR. FERRAND : Very well, Sir, I will do my utmost to leave out what refers to the House of Commons. Of course. I am under your orders, and I shall instantly obey if you intimate that I am doing wrong. The hon. Member then proceeded to read the following passage from the newspaper in question, leaving out the allusion to the House of Commons:—
 "The statements made by Mr. J. Bright on the night Lord Ashley introduced his Bill into Parliament, have created such a sensation in the manufacturing districts, that some difficulty is experienced in allaying the ferment—Preston and Rochdale being particularly involved in the slanders put forth by the hon. Member. The people of those towns immediately proceeded to hold meetings, with a view of rebutting Mr. Bright's calumnies. The people of Preston did ample justice to their character, and proved that there was not one word of truth in the allegations made in the House of Commons. Rochdale has also raised its voice; and on Monday night, one of the most crowded meetings of factory operatives ever held in the town, took place in the People's Institution. The object of the meeting was chiefly to disprove the statements made by Mr. Bright, that gentleman having stated that the people of Rochdale
 233 "'That the present system of long hours in factories is very injurious to all the persons employed in them, as twelve hours' labour per day is more than the human constitution can endure without injury; and that the practice of working long hours, deprives us of every advantage in literature and science, and reduces us from the condition of social beings to that of mere serfs, without any of the enjoyments of social life. And this meeting is further of opinion, that the adoption of the Ten Hours' Bill would be a very great improvement on this system of over-working, as it would afford us an opportunity of improving our physical, mental, and moral condition; and we pledge ourselves never to relax our exertions until this measure becomes law.' Mr. Stephen Clark, a cotton-spinner, seconded the Motion. He said he belonged to the Short Time Committee; and they considered they would not be doing their duty unless they gave the factory workers of Rochdale an opportunity of contradicting the—" "Immediately on the statement made by that gentleman coming to the knowledge of the operatives, no less than eighteen or twenty mills met and agreed to hold a public meeting to denounce the statements as false and slanderous; and the crowded state of the meeting which he was then addressing, was a strong indication of the sentiments of the operatives, and a convincing proof of the utter falseness of the statement made by Mr. Bright. That gentleman had been invited to attend the meeting and defend his statements, but he had not made his appearance." 234 "The hon. Member talked of the poverty of the people in Mr. Ashworth's employment, of their nakedness, of the wretchedness of their dwellings." made a gesture of assent. "At the very time he (Ashworth) complained that the handloom weavers' wages had risen 10 per cent, a Committee was inquiring into their condition, and hearing evidence, which proved that the men surrounding this man's mill were living on 2¾ d. 235 "Can you tell the Committee what description of food the weavers are generally obliged to put up with?—The description of food is chiefly oatmeal porridge and potatoes, with occasionally a small quantity of butchers' meat, which they may obtain once in the course of a week. Are there any of them that are not able to procure a sufficient quantity of that coarse food with the wages they now earn?—I have made a calculation, by which I estimate that, if a man has to support himself and wife, and fire children, with the assistance of two children and his wife labouring with him, they will not be able to earn, for food and clothing, more than 2¾ d. 236 "As this discussion had been raised, he would read a letter which he had received on the subject of one statement of the hon. Member for Knaresborough. It was from the operatives of Union-mill, whose attention had been attracted by a statement of the hon. Member, to the effect that many of the operatives had been compelled by their masters to sign petitions against the Corn Laws." "I felt well pleased at your putting the question to Lord Morpeth with regard as to how the signatures had been obtained for a total and immediate repeal of the Corn Laws. You may depend upon it the same means have been resorted to here as you spoke of."
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  could not understand why the hon. Gentleman should have made the statement, without making also a Motion founded upon it, unless he had reckoned upon a great extension of the indulgence of the Speaker and the indulgence of the House towards him. If the hon. Gentleman had indeed stated his regret at having used the expressions which had been withdrawn, he should have been one of the last to comment upon the matter; but the hon. Gentleman had limited his expression of regret to the fact, that the term "bloodhound deputation" was not in accordance with the usages of the House. If the hon. Gentleman would only say that he regretted having used the expression at all, he would be satisfied; but he had seen the expression "bloodhound deputation," to his great surprise, printed in the Votes, and he found that it had subsequently been expunged, and the notice cancelled. He trusted that for the sake of society, at least, the hon. Gentleman would express his regret for having used such language as frankly as he had expressed his regret for having used it so far as regarded the House itself. Unless the hon. Member did so, he should not be satisfied.
 SIR R. PEEL : I hope that neither the gallant Officer nor any other Member has any just ground of accusing me of want of courtesy when they put questions connected with the public service. I cannot charge
 227 228
 SIR R. PEEL : Certainly, Sir, in the very harmless discussion which has just taken place, I did not intend to have taken any part; nor would I do so, were it not for some allusions made by the hon. Member for Shrewsbury. That hon. Member thought fit to recall to the recollection of the House something which took place about three years since in the course of a heated debate, when I put an erroneous construction on some expressions used by the hon. Member for Stockport. An explanation was given of the meaning of those expressions by that hon. Member; and my intention at the time, after that explanation, was to have relieved the hon. Member for Stockport in the most distinct manner from the imputation which I had put upon him. If any one who was present at that debate had stated to me that my reparation was not so complete, and the avowal of my error not so unequivocal as it ought to have been, I should at once have repeated it more plainly and distinctly. It was my intention to have made the fullest explanation: that my intention must have been so will indeed appear on reference to my speech. I am sorry certainly that the hon. Member for Shrewsbury has thought fit to revive the subject, or, at least, I should have been so if his reference to it had not given me an opportunity of fully and unequivocally withdrawing an imputation on the hon. Member for Stockport, which was thrown out in the heat of debate under an erroneous impression of his meaning.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said: Agreeing entirely as I do in the Resolutions which the right hon. Gentleman proposes to move, I trust he will allow me the gratification of seconding the Motion. I participate in the feelings he has expressed on behalf of the House, and I trust with him that it will come to an unanimous decision, that we may offer a tribute to the valour of those who have fought for this country in India, which may be a source of pride to the survivors of these bloody engagements, and some consolation to the afflicted relatives of those who have fallen. With respect to the former part of the right hon. Gentleman's speech, I do not intend to follow him farther than to say this; I feel assured that when Sir H. Hardinge accepted the post of Governor General of India, when he abandoned an honourable position in the Councils of his Sovereign, when he left the enjoyments of his happy home, he did so from the highest and most patriotic motives. With respect to the policy which Sir H. Hardinge, as Governor General, has pursued as to the Punjaub, it is highly interesting to hear the statement of that policy which has been made by the right hon. Gentleman. But as I am im-
 401 402
 Mr. VILLIERS  rose to move an Amendment to the following effect—
 "To leave out the words 'in lieu of,' in order to insert the words, 'All duties on imported corn do now cease and determine.'" 423 424 425 426 427 428 429 s. s. s. 430 431
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said: If the Committee will allow me, I will endeavour, without discussing the general question, which has been already discussed for several nights, and which may again be discussed on the second reading, to state my views on the several propositions before us; and I shall take this course, because it has been taken by hon. Gentlemen who
 458 s. s. s. s. s. s., s., 459 460 s.; s. s., s. s., 461 462 463 464 465
 The EARL of MARCH  said, that the House was in such a state of confusion that they seemed to have forgotten the question before the Committee. He understood that his hon. Friend the Member for Evesham had moved that the Chairman should report progress and ask leave to sit again.
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  would detain the Committee but a few moments. The noble Lord opposite had said that the present House of Commons was in a situation to settle this question. He contended that it was not, and he would prove it from the noble Lord's own observations. The noble Lord said, "If I had undertaken the government, and proposed the same measures that the Government now propose, I should not have been able to carry those measures in the House of Commons by a greater majority than 40 or 50." He now asked the Committee, in common fairness and candour, whether they thought they were in a position to carry those measures with satisfaction to the country or to those hon. Members who had always maintained that the Corn Law ought to be immediately repealed? He contended that it was not the opinion of that House. It had been proved by the noble Lord that it was not the opinion of that House. Even if the measure were right, this was not the way in which it should be carried.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  said, it was really too bad that they should have perpetually quotations and opinions cited from former speeches on all occasions, and particularly on such an occasion as the present. He really wanted to know what any opinions expressed in a speech on a vote of want of confidence in a former Government had to do with the question of adjournment on the present occasion? As he did not want to see the character of that House lowered in the public estimation by such conduct, he, for one, rose to enter his solemn protest against such a course of factious opposition as a small minority of those who were opposed to the measure of Her Majesty's Government were now offering to it. Such a course could but bring the House of Commons into disrepute with the public.
 LORD WORSLEY  rose to explain. He feared his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) had misunderstood what he (Lord Worsley) had said in an earlier part of the evening, when he declared his intention of supporting the proposed duty of 5 s.,
 LORD WORSLEY  said, as the hon. Member for Wolverhampton had alluded to him, and to a statement which he had made on this question on another occasion, at a time when it was thought impossible the question could be met as a mere matter of compromise, and when he supposed that the House of Commons were to decide by a large majority that no alteration of the Corn Law should take place, or else that there should be a settlement of the question either by a total abolition, or by such an arrangement as those who advocated total abolition would assent to, he wished to state to the House the grounds on which he intended to give his vote on the present Amendment. It was now proposed by his hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton, that all duties on the importation of foreign corn should totally and immediately cease. On the other hand, it was proposed by Her Majesty's Government that, until 1849, there should be a continuance of the sliding-scale, on a much lower rate of duty than that now in operation. His impression was, that if the question were solely whether the Motion proposed now by the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, or that of Her Majesty's Government, should be agreed to, it would be much better that they should now decide in favour of immediate and total repeal, than that they should be forced to remain in a state of constant uncertainty during a period of three years from the present time. On those grounds, if the House had to decide simply between those two propositions, he certainly should be in favour of the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton. But he had to look to the question in this light: he felt that if he were to vote in favour of the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton; and if that Motion were carried by the House, he would thus aid in precluding himself from considering other Amendments which were to be proposed by other hon. Members on this question. It might be considered that, in adopting this course, he was not acting quite consistently with the opinion which he had before expressed in favour of a desire to set this question at rest; but he hoped he could satisfactorily explain to the House that the charge of inconsistency could not be brought against him, and that he was justified in taking the course which he adopted, because he believed that the propositions to be brought forward by the hon. Member for Anglesea (Mr. W. O. Stanley)
 437 s. s. d. s. s. s. s. 438 "That, in the event of this House consenting to the change proposed by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government in the duties on the importation of foreign corn for three years, that the amount of such duties as received shall be appropriated as a fund to relieve or compensate such tenant-farmers of the United Kingdom now subjected to certain rents, burdens, covenants, and obligations entered into under the present scale of duties, who may prove before a Select Committee of this House, that they have been ruined, impoverished, or deeply injured by the lessening of the protection they now possess." 439
 MR. C. BERKELEY  merely rose to say, in answer to the observations of the hon. Member for Durham, that he viewed with great suspicion any petitions coming to him through Manchester. He had also received a letter from Mr. Hennessy, and without meaning anything offensive to those gentlemen who came from the Emerald Isle, he was disposed to say he was afraid that he had borne out their character for blundering. The postscript of this letter stated that, in reference to the petition, he would find his signature followed that of Mr. Perry, of Alston Mill. He had searched
 385
 MR. C. BERKELEY  rose to call the attention of the House to the petition presented by him on Friday last. It related to the forgery of signatures to a petition which purported to come from Cheltenham, but which had been sent from Manchester. He believed that it was a breach of the privileges of the House, and he was ready to adopt any suggestion the House might think proper to make. He had letters in his pocket to show that many of these signatures were forged. The matter was well worthy the consideration of the House, because there was a general complaint out of doors that the petitions of the people were not treated with proper respect and attention; and he could not wonder at it, if petitions were got up in such a way. He moved that the petition be referred to a Select Committee, to ascertain the circumstances under which, and the parties by whom, the signatures thereto were annexed.
 LORD J. MANNERS  said, that any gentleman wbo walked the streets of London might afford evidence of the manner in which the signatures to petitions were obtained. He, himself, had happened to be walking down Grosvenor-place the other day, when he heard a comfortable-looking baker's boy say to one of his companions, "I say, old fellow, have you signed the Anti-Corn-Law petition? I have signed it three times." This was not an isolated case, as he believed that parties were in the habit of signing these petitions as often as they happened to pass along the streets in which they were exhibited. Parties were allowed to put down their names as often as they thought proper. He thought some steps should be taken to put an end to this evil, for he witnessed with regret the diminished influence which the petitions of the people now had in that House.
 LORD J. MANNERS  rose to notice a remark which had fallen from the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) that it was competent for the present Parliament to alter the Corn Laws, and that this case was analogous to the passing of the Septennial Act. He asserted that throughout English history there was not so disgraceful a case as that in which a Whig House of Commons, afraid to appeal to the country, and elected only for three years, had been led to vote that the same House should sit for a septennial period. He knew not what the noble Lord's present views might be; but he must say for himself that if the noble Lord's ardour to secure a long life to the present House of Commons should propose to extend its existence for a decennial period, he could venture to assure the noble Lord that he would have no more decided opponent than himself; and when the noble Lord said, that the public honour of that House was separable from the private honour of individuals, such a proposition could hardly be seriously maintained; for what was the public honour but the aggregate private honour of individuals? What! destroy the private honour of 120 or 130 individual Members of the House of Commons, and then hope that they could maintain by a constitutional fallacy the public character of the House of Commons? He said, if he had asked for any justification for the course which that great minority of the House had adopted, he should find it in the speech of the noble Lord the Member for London; and he would ask the House, after such a speech, after such arguments, whether it could refuse to postpone this discussion for any number of nights to allow those hon. Members who chose to express their opinions? For himself, he could conceive no such argument in favour of the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Evesham as that they had heard from the noble Lord. So long as his hon. Friend chose to divide the House on the question of adjournment, so long should he be happy, after the speech of the noble Lord, to divide with him.
 LORD J. MANNERS  wished to observe, in reply to the observations of the noble Lord, that if the noble Lord would have the kindness to refer with more care to that
 472
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  was sorry he had incurred the displeasure of the noble Lord; but really the penalty of adjourn-
 471
 MR. B. ESCOTT  said, if no danger could be proved to arise from the Amendment of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, he would vote for it; but if anything occurred in the course of the debate to make him seriously believe that the eventual success of the measure proposed by Her Majesty's Ministers would be endangered by the Amendment, however much he might respect the hon. Member (Mr. Villiers) for his advocacy of this cause—and no one could honour him more for it than he did—then, upon the principle laid down by the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) at the commencement of the Session, in order to save that great measure, he should vote against the Amendment. The question he asked himself, in determining the principle upon which he should give his vote was this:—Under the existing circumstances of the country, is it right and just that the price of the food of the people should be increased by restrictive laws? He had attended a meeting of his constituents in November last, and he told them that, in his opinion, the only justification of the ports being closed was the fact then supposed to exist, that there was no Government responsible for the affairs of the country. The statements made by the First Lord of the Treasury during the late debates fully supported him, when he said, "at that time there was no Government responsible for the affairs of the country;" and it was notorious that his right hon. Friend could not open them, in consequence of certain disagreements. Had anything happened since to make him (Mr. B. Escott) believe that there ought to be no restrictions on the importation of food? He thought everything had happened to make the unrestricted importation of food more necessary than it was before; and, under these circumstances, he should vote for the
 444
 CAPTAIN LAYARD  said, great actions, gallant performances, and heroic deeds were often lost to the page of history, either by the want of a poet or the neglect of the historian. But the friends of those gallant spirits whose lives had been offered up at the shrine of their country, neither they nor those gallant warriors who happily still remained to maintain its honour and its glory, need fear for a moment that such would be the case on the present occasion; but no doubt would rest assured, that after the beautiful and soul-stirring speech of the Prime Minister, that their deeds and their glory would be heralded down to all time. It was for the House to consider if its thanks were due to the army and its leaders who had so lately fought those desperate conflicts which had taken place on the hanks of the Sutlej. An army brought up by forced marches, in want of food and water, greatly inferior to the adversary in number and artillery—such was the state of our force. The Sikhs being the finest army ever brought together in India by a native Power—an army which had been for years formed under the genius of a great warrior, Runjeet Singh, the Lion of Lahore, and disciplined for years by French officers—an army as gallant as was ever brought into the field; with the finest artillery, to which our own could not be compared in number. The stake, not if one battle was to be fought,
 412 "As the leaves of the forest, when summer is green, That host with its banner at sunset was seen; As the leaves of the forest, when autumn has blown, That host on the morrow lay withered and strown; And there lay the rider distorted and pale, With the dew on his brow and the rust on his mail; And there lay the steed, with his nostril all wide, But from it there rolled not the breath of his pride." 413
 MR. GORING  could not see what preference could be given in favour of the Government plan of 4 s., s., s., s.; 447
 MR. NEWDEGATE  seconded the Motion. He thought it a fitting time to call the attention of the House to the conduct of the agents of the Anti-Corn-Law League, in the registration courts. If the privileges of the House were endangered by the forgery of signatures, they were still more so by the attempt to influence unduly the election of Members for that House. He was anxious, if a Committee was appointed now, that its inquiries should not be confined
 381
 MR. NEWDEGATE  understood that the conduct of the Anti-Corn-Law League had been referred to in the petition presented by the hon. Member. He wished, in corroboration of that statement, to adduce further evidence, in reference to the more direct interference with the privileges of the House.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he would, of course, bow to the decision of the right hon. Gentleman; but if he were not out of order he would move that it be an Instruction to this Committee of Inquiry to enter further into the case of all the signatures attached to the petitions which he had just referred to.
 THE SPEAKER  said, the question now was for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the circumstances connected with the signatures affixed to the petition presented by the hon. and gallant Member for Cheltenham, and whether such signatures were forgeries. Unless, therefore, the hon. Member was prepared to bring forward statements in respect to such Motion, he apprehended that the Amendment moved by the hon. Gentleman would not affect the privileges of the House in reference to the petition of the hon. and gallant Member.
 THE SPEAKER  said, that it would be more proper for the hon. Member for Knaresborough to move an instruction to the Committee, when it was appointed, to include the subject he had referred to in their inquiry.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he would not long occupy the attention of the House. The opinions he entertained on the subject were very well known, as were the opinions he entertained upon the conduct of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, who insulted the country by bringing forward these measures in a deceitful manner. The course pursued by the hon. Member for Wolverhampton was, he had no hesitation in saying, a comparatively bold, manly, and independent one: he had proved himself a much more honest man than any one on the Treasury benches. He wished he could speak as well of those in whom he had formerly placed confidence. He would read to the House a speech made at a banqnet at which Sir Robert Peel was present in 1838. On that occasion the right hon. Baronet treated with extreme ridicule the Government of the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Russell), which was then in power. At that meeting there were present, among others, the following gentlemen: the Marquess of Chandos, now the Duke of Buckingham, well known by the appellation of "the Farmer's Friend," and a more honourable title he could not bear; and what was more, the noble Duke deserved it. The Marquess of Chandos was in the chair, and among those present were Sir R. Peel, Lord Francis Egerton, Mr. Goulburn, Lord Lowther, Sir R. Inglis, Lord Stanley, Sir J. Graham, Mr. Herries, and Lord Granville Somerset. He could not say whether the noble Lord yet continued a Member of the Government. He had not seen him in the House lately. He could not say where he was, but felt sure that that noble Lord would not be found, where it was said
 432 "I am deeply grateful for the motives which have influenced you in paying me this mark of respect, unparalleled in the political annals of this country, and for the corresponding feeling with which you, Gentlemen, have just received the proposition of my noble Friend. Gentlemen, I wish I had any command of language, at least of appropriate and befitting language, to convey to you the sensations which, as you must perceive, almost overpower me; but I feel that it is infinitely better to appeal to your feeling for an estimate and vindication of mine—to the consciousness of each of you that, were you placed in my present situation, you would rather remain perfectly silent than try to express your gratitude by the trite and exhausted forms of complimentary acknowledgment. Gentlemen, you have conferred upon me the highest reward that can be conferred upon a public man who does aspire to that distinction, and that alone, which is founded upon the esteem and confidence of intelligent and enlightened men, who is ambitious of power, but of that power only which, having its roots in much esteem and confidence, adds life and vigour to the authority derived from office, and does not wither and decay when official authority is extinct. Gentlemen, you have also proved to me and others that there are other bonds of connexion—other sympathies which unite us besides a cold concurrence in political sentiments. You have proved to those who are treading the rugged and laborious path which leads to political eminence, that they may on their way be cheered by the cordial voice of friendship, and the cheering tones of personal attachment and esteem. By this feeling, Gentlemen, you have done much more than even the honour it confers upon me; you have given a public demonstration that the great object to which, for some years past, my exertions have been mainly directed, is completely accomplished. My object for some years past—that which I have most earnestly laboured to accomplish—has been to lay the foundation of a great party—which, existing in the House of Commons, and deriving its strength from the popular will, should diminish the risk and deaden the shock of a collision between the two deliberative branches of the Legislature—which should enable us to check the too importunate eagerness of well-intending men, for hasty and precipitate changes in the Constitution and laws of the country, and by which we should be enabled to say, with a voice of authority, to the restless spirit of revolutionary change, 'Here are thy bounds, and here shall thy vibrations cease.'" cum vino veritas. 433 tempora mutantur nos et mutamur in illis. A call of 434 inter duas sellas inerduas. "My object is, that by steadily attending to our duty, by censuring the Government on all occasions when they deserve it, enforcing our principles by aiding them to carry those measures which we think right, even though by so doing we may be rescuing the Government, we may establish new claims upon the approbation of the country. I own I have felt on some occasions, when we might have relied upon a majority in favour of those principles which the Government professed to share in common with us, yet I have found that when a question involved the existence of the Government, the principles were forgotten, and the only consideration was, how most effectually the Government might be preserved. It cannot be satisfactory to be told—'You deserve censure, but rather than inflict it upon you, we will vote in your favour to rescue you.' Gentlemen, there was an observation made more than a hundred years ago by Mr. Addison, who lamented the violent party heats and resentments which appeared to obstruct the performance of public duty, and suggested that it was a bounden duty to combine all neutral men in defence of the common good. He thought it possible to form some sort of covenant to which moderate men might adhere, and by which, rising above party considerations, and only seeking for the public good, they might be bound. He found great difficulty in framing such an instrument, but at length he hit upon a form of covenant for moderate men. I will read the form of association which Mr. Addison proposed, and which he expected to be subscribed by moderate men, but which, I believe, would find but little favour in these days. It was to this effect:—'We whose names are hereunto subscribed, do solemnly declare that we do conscientiously believe that two and two make four, and that we shall adjudge any man to be an enemy who advances or pretends to the contrary. We are likewise ready to maintain at any hazard, against all men, that six is less than seven in all times and places. We do finally declare our firm determination to call black black, and white white, and that we shall, on all occasions, oppose such persons as shall, on any day of the year, hold black to be white, or white black, to the utmost period of our lives.' If Mr. Addison were now alive, he would perceive that this form of association was not much appreciated by the friends of the Government; but if he had drawn it in a different form—if he had said, 'We will on all occasions, on every day of the year, vote black to be white, or white black, whenever the Government is implicated,' that would insure more signatures than the declaration which he proposed, that two and two make four, and that on every day of the year, black shall be considered black, and white white." 435
 MR. G. BANKES  said, that as the hon. Member (Mr. M. J. O'Connell) asked why hon. Gentlemen desired to speak upon this subject, viz., whether the repeal of the Corn Laws should be immediate, or according to the right hon. Baronet's proposition; he would tell him it was because the hon. Member for Essex (Mr. Palmer), as honourable a Member as any in the House—respectable as well for his long standing, as for his many other qualifications, was interrupted from the commencement of his speech until the conclusion—so much so, that even those who sat on the same side with him could scarcely catch a single observation he had made. When a Gentleman of such high character and standing, could meet with no more respect than that, it was surely foolish for other hon. Members to attempt to get a hearing. Whatever might be the trouble and inconvenience it occasioned, they (the protectionists) were determined to persevere in their course. For his own part, he felt that the observations made by right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) called for a reply.
 MR. G. PALMER  rose to address the
 457 Interruption. l.
 DR. BOWRING  only wished to say a few words in consequence of the right hon. Baronet having spoken severely of a party in this country, in whose opinions he might not share, but who were entitled to deference and respect. He granted that this was not a case of aggression or invasion; but the party alluded to looked with great alarm and distress at war in any shape or form; they thought that these great sacrifices could be avoided, and he was grieved to hear the right hon. Baronet give any opinion against them. He hoped the time would come when the pacific principle would be more and more taken as the groundwork of our policy; it was most intimately con-
 420
 MR. BRIGHT : I rise principally with the view of making a few observations upon the speech of the noble Lord the Member for Lincolnshire (Lord Worsley). The noble Lord said he was of opinion that even now the imposition of a fixed duty of 5 s. "Something had been said about compromise. About a year ago he thought something like compromise might have been effected; but that day had gone by. There was at present only one ground of compromise, and that was a final settlement of the question, whereby agitation would be for ever stopped. It was agitation on this subject that was doing all the injury, and the stopping of that was the only compromise that could be for a moment entertained. Some had supposed that it was the intention of Sir Robert Peel to propose a fixed duty with a descending scale, to go down gradually until it vanished altogether. That would not stop agitation. It would go on as violently as ever, until the last shilling of duty was removed." 448 449 s. s. l., l., l., 450
 MR. BRIGHT  interposed, and begged leave to present a petition. It purported to be from Reading, and to pray that the House would not vote thanks to the Indian army, as the troops were engaged in an unjust and impolitic warfare.
 MR. BRIGHT  observed that he had offered the other night to second the Motion of the hon. Member for Cheltenham, but he had since received an explanation, which, perhaps, he had better submit to the House before the Motion was disposed of. He held in his hand a letter from the Secretary to the Anti-Corn-Law League at
 382 "National Anti-Corn-Law League, Manchester, Feb. 28. "Dear Sir—I see by the newspapers of to-day that you have had a stir in the House about a petition from Cheltenham, which was sent from this office on Tuesday last; and, as you have promised to second the Motion of which Mr. Berkeley has given notice, I may as well put you in possession of the facts as far as I know anything of them. You know that in January we sent out from this office a circu-ar of which copies were addressed to our free-trade friends in all parts of the kingdom, suggesting the sending of petitions for immediate repeal. Among many hundreds of replies to that circular was one from Peter Vines of Cheltenham, and of this I enclose a copy. In consequence of the request of Mr. Vines, I ordered copies of the printed form of the South Lancashire petition to be sent to him, with a few of the other Bills he mentions, and we heard no more of the matter until last Tuesday, when we received (I believe by post) a number of sheets containing the signatures, which we had to paste together, and attach the head. Mr. Septimus Pruen, a respectable solicitor of Cheltenham, sent the sheets to us. As Mr. Berkeley is Member of Parliament for the borough, I ordered Mr. Walters, our clerk, to send the petition to him for presentation. I can say nothing as to how the signatures were obtained, except that as Mr. Pruen and Messrs. Bishop and Vines had the management of the matter, I should have had the fullest confidence that all would be done honourably and fairly. I did not expect the sheets to be sent to us, but that the whole would be forwarded direct from Cheltenham to London, as has been done in almost all other cases. I have written to Mr. Pruen to-day, and requested him to inquire into the matter, and to communicate with their M. P. I ought to mention that four or five names which appear on the first sheet were copied from the head of one of the other sheets, and these five names as originally signed were pasted over, and this was done by Mr. Walters by my direction.—I am, dear Sir, yours very truly, "JOSEPH HICKIN." "4. Essex Place, Cheltenham, Feb. 28. Sir—The hon. C. F. Berkeley is reported in the  Morning Herald 383 "JOHN F. HENNESSY. "J. Bright, Esq., M.P."
 MR. HUME  rose to order. He should be happy to hear any statement on the subject of interference with the elections of Members; but the question was not before the House. He suggested that the hon. Member should give notice of a Motion on the subject.
 MR. HUME  concurred entirely in the Vote; but he was anxious to make a few observations, because it had been stated elsewhere that the Commander-in-Chief had been surprised, and that, in consequence the victory was gained with a greater loss to the army than might have occurred. He believed that great caution had been displayed by the Governor Gene-
 403 404
 MR. HUME  hoped that on this occasion the speech of the hon. Member who had just resumed his seat would teach those who were about to divide the ranks of the supporters of the measures of Government what course they ought to adopt. After the speech of the noble Lord the Member for London (Lord J. Russell), he thought that every individual who was anxious to carry those measures should do his utmost to support the right hon. Baronet. He confessed that he should prefer an immediate repeal of the Corn Laws; but seeing what the right hon. Baronet had stated, he considered they would be acting in a manner that was calculated
 467
 MR. BORTHWICK , amid cries of "Divide," and "Oh!" from the Opposition, moved that the Chairman report progress and ask leave to sit again.
 MR. P. HOWARD  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. R. MANGLES  concurred most cordially in the vote of thanks proposed,
 419
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  was one of those who never entertained any sanguine expectations that those hon. Members who advocated protection would support the Motion of his hon. Friend. He felt that when the proposition of immediate repeal was submitted to the House, those hon. Members would find very good reasons for not giving it their support; but, at the same time, he was extremely glad to hear from the noble Lord who had just sat down, that he did not withhold his vote from his hon. Friend (Mr. Villiers), because he would wish to encourage the feeling among the tenant-farmers that the protection which was now about being withdrawn from them could ever again be restored. His noble Friend had told them that, if he were to take such a part, he should not be acting honestly—conscientiously believing, as his noble Friend did, that protection once withdrawn could never be again conferred upon them; but such being the con-
 440 441 442 s. d. s. 443
 MR. R. COLBORNE , not having had any previous opportunity of expressing his opinion on this subject, wished to state the grounds on which he should give a cordial and sincere support to the Amendment of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton. He had given his support to the right hon. Baronet, not because he believed that all the details of his proposed measure were perfect, but because the measure itself was right in principle. The arguments and reasoning of the right hon. Baronet had clearly proved free trade to be right in principle; but, notwithstanding this approbation, he (Mr. R. Colborne) reserved to himself the right of voting against whatever parts of the measure he might think proper. That measure was a free-trade measure; but it would have told better upon the country if it had included the total and immediate repeal of the Corn Laws. The noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had told the House it was not his wish that the Amendment should be carried, for fear it should endanger the Ministerial measure; and on this point he would allude to one subject upon which he feared there would not be found many to agree with him. He referred to a dissolution of Parliament upon this question. He believed if Parliament were dissolved, the cause of free trade would gain; but when he heard the noble Lord say they dared not oppose the measure, because he thought if there was a dissolution upon it, there was not sufficient spirit to carry him through, he (Mr. R. Colborne) would ask what stronger proof there was of it than the arguments urged by hon. Gentlemen opposite in favour of an appeal to the country? Before this measure was finally settled, there must be a new Parliament, for it was impossible to call the doubt and hesitation of three years
 445
 MR. FERRAND  begged leave to move,
 "That it be an Instruction to the said Committee, that they do inquire into the method which has been adopted by the Anti-Corn-Law League in obtaining Signatures to Petitions, praying for the total and immediate repeal of the Corn and Provision Laws, to be presented to this House."
 MR. FERRAND  said, he was prepared to justify the course they were pursuing that night, by reference to a speech of the right hon. Baronet, delivered on the 31st of January, 1840, in the debate on the vote of want of confidence in Ministers. Substitute the name of Stanley for that of Howick, and the exactness of the application was perfect. The hon. Member then read the passage referred to, to the effect that Lord Howick had quitted the Ministry of Lord Melbourne, because he had no confidence in its principles or professions. The hon. Member concluded by moving that the Chairman do now leave the chair.
 MR. FERRAND  begged to inquire of the right hon. Gentleman in the chair, whether it would be regular that he should move an Amendment to the Motion of the hon. Member for Cheltenham? He was desirous of asking that question, because he had received a letter from Sheffield in corroboration of the statements which he had made the other night in that House respecting the forgery of signatures to petitions. He had also seen an extract from the  Leeds Intelligencer Illustrated London News, "If any further information will be of any use to you in your opposition to the Anti-Corn-Law League, I should feel great pleasure in forwarding to you the name of a man who is engaged by
 384
 SIR A. BROOKE  complained that several Irish Members had waited for thirteen nights, wishing to speak on this question, without ever getting an opportunity. This night, the whole time had been occupied by the hon. Members for Durham, Manchester, and Wolverhampton, by the noble Lord the Member for London, and the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury, so that those who were in favour of protection had been prevented from speaking. Under these circumstances, he thought the call for a division very unfair, and should move that the House do now adjourn—that this debate be now adjourned.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  had to propose that the names of the non-commissioned officers and privates who had fallen should be recorded in such manner as the forms of the House would permit, as he thought such a record would be extremely desirable. He had thought, on reading the Resolutions which the right hon. Baronet was about to move, it was matter of regret to find that the names of the distinguished officers who had fallen did not appear in that proceeding. He had laid the suggestion before the right hon. Baronet, and had proposed a sixth resolution, to the tenor of which the right hon. Baronet did not disagree. Since the subject had been mentioned, he would take the liberty of reading to the House the substance of the resolution he suggested; and if any individual Member would second him, he would move it as an addition, admitting that there was
 421
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  withdrew his Amendment.
 SIR H. DOUGLAS  said, it was a happy circumstance, gratifying to the public feeling of the country, that the victories for which we were about to return thanks had been the fruits of no aggressive act on our part; and it would be consolatory to the grief of the nation, and to that of those individuals more intimately concerned, that the tremendous sacrifice of valuable lives which had taken place, had not been occasioned by any violation of the rights and territories of others, by the British troops; but that, on the contrary, the forbearance shown by the Governor General and the Commander in Chief had been such, as to have exposed those gallant and eminent officers to the charge of having observed a policy in this respect, which was not consistent with the rules and principles of military science; assuming which, it had been asserted, that the British generals should have moved up with all their force to oppose the passage of the river at Ferozepoor. He (Sir H. Douglas) need not read to the House any of the extracts already cited, to show how resolutely the Governor General adhered to a pacific, forbearing, and defensive policy, in the last letter which he had received from his old and valued friend, previous to his quitting Calcutta for the scene of operations, he stated "our po-
 414 "An army attempting the passage of a river has the advantage of employing stratagems, which frequently lead the defending General to make too great a dispersion of his force. To occupy every point is to be nowhere strong; but to keep concentrated in one positron upon the point most threatened by open demonstrations, will infallibly lead to attempts to turn it." coup demain, 415 416 417 "Evinced great firmness and resolution in advancing to the attack until borne down by the furious and irresistible fire from all arms that men could be exposed to; the loss of many of their officers must have tended to relax their efforts and check their ardour, and under such circumstances only could the disappointment to Her Majesty's 62nd regiment themselves, and to their country, have been for a moment conceived."
 MR. HOGG  hoped that the situation he had the honour to hold in the service of the East India Company, would be deemed an adequate excuse for his venturing to address the House, after the eloquent and well-merited eulogies on our troops and their commanders, that had been pronounced by the right hon. Baronet and the noble Lord. Eventful as India had been in desperate struggles, the conflicts of the 18th, 21st, and 22nd December were, perhaps, the severest we had ever been engaged in. Never before had we encountered an enemy so brave and so resolute; and the frightful carnage on both sides, marked the desperation of the conflict. The Sikhs had well-founded confidence in their valour and their numbers; and that confidence was increased by the strength of their position, and the overwhelming force of their artillery. The British troops did not amount to one-third the number of the Sikhs, although the combined movement for the concentration of our forces had been planned with the greatest skill, and executed with the most eminent success; and every soldier from Umballah, and all the stations in advance, was in the ranks. Our inferiority in artillery was still greater, and when assailing a fortified camp, more appalling. We had little more than half their number of guns, chiefly six-pounders, and scarcely any of them exceeding nine-pounders; while the enemy had upwards of 100 guns, and, as Sir Hugh Gough stated, "forty of them of battering calibre." The Sikhs defended their position with desperate courage, while our troops advanced in the face of a storm of shot and shell, that literally mowed down their ranks; still they advanced with unflinching steadiness till they assailed and gained the intrenched camp of the Sikhs, capturing their guns and munitions of war, and accomplishing every object which Sir Henry Hardinge and Sir Hugh Gough had in view. Our loss was great; but in a conflict so desperate and unequal, how could it be otherwise? Most truly did he (Mr. Hogg) sympathize in the feelings of regret, and the tribute of admiration, so elegantly expressed by the right hon. Baronet. He was truly gratified to hear that it was the intention of Government to record the nation's gratitude, by erecting a monument to the memory of that distin-
 407 408 409 410 411
 SIR J. HOBHOUSE  said, it had never been the custom to publish the names of private soldiers who fell on these great occasions, but he knew no other reason why it should not be done; and when he was Secretary at War, he had suggested that it would be desirable. He wished to take the opportunity of saying that he gave his most cordial support to the Motion. It would be unnecessary for him to say more after the addresses of the right hon. Gentleman and his noble Friend, by whom it was moved and seconded. He doubted if the thanks of that House had ever been more worthily voted, or whether even the annals of India could furnish an instance of a more brilliant or, unhappily, a more sanguinary engagement. In honouring these brave men, therefore, they only did honour to themselves; and, considering that (as he feared) this was only the commencement of a more serious and sanguinary struggle, he thought it would be a great encouragement to these brave men to find that the Parliament of England took the earliest opportunity of thus acknowledging their distinguished services.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  also wished to take his share in paying a humble and heartfelt tribute for the great and eminent services which the Indian army had accomplished. At the same time he desired to take advantage of some expressions which had been used by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), to recall to his recollection, and to that of the House, certain, passages in the despatch of Sir H. Hardinge, and in his proclamation, to which hitherto no allusion had been made. "Let us," said the hon. Member, "not thank the officers and army alone; let us imitate Sir H. Hardinge himself, who, in his despatch to the President and Council announcing the victory, in the most solemn manner, desired England and India to recollect by whom that victory was achieved; that it was not in the strength of his own arm he had been saved, but "it was thine arm, and thy right hand, and the light of
 405 406
 SIR R. PEEL  then spoke as follows: I am about to propose that one of the highest rewards that can be bestowed upon successful valour shall be conferred by this House. I am about to propose that the thanks of the Commons of this great Empire shall be given to the officers and men who recently on the banks of the Sutlej, under very trying circumstances, by their discipline, by their fortitude, by their brilliant valour, have sustained the reputation
 386 Much cheering. 387 388 389 390 s. s. s. 391 392 Governor General's Agency, Nov. 20, 1845. "Sir—Since I had the honour of waiting on your Excellency to-day, I have received Lahore letters of the 18th instant (morning). During the night of the 17th, the chiefs had agreed on, and the Durbar had ordered in writing, the following plan of operations. The army was to be divided into seven divisions, one to remain at Lahore, and the rest to proceed against Roopur and our hills, Loodiana, Hurreekee, Ferozepore, and Scinde, while one was to proceed to Peshawur; and a force under Rajah Golab Singh was to be sent to Attock." 393 "The Ranee (that is, the regent, the mother of the infant Maharajah) complained that whilst the troops were urging the march, they were still going home to their villages as fast as they got their pay; and Sirdar Sham Singh Attareewallah declared his belief that unless something was done to stop this, he would find himself on his way to Ferozepore with empty tents. The bait of money to be paid, and to accompany them was also offered, and at length the durbar broke up at two p.m. Great consultations took place in the afternoon; but I know only one result, that the Ranee had to give her lover his formal dismissal, and that he (Rajah Lal Singh) actually went into the camp of the Sawars he is to command, and pitched his tent. What the Ranee says is quite true of the sepoys dispersing to their houses; the whole affair has so suddenly reached its present height, that many of the men themselves think it will come to nothing, and still more who had taken their departure do not believe it serious enough to go back. On the day after this scene took place,  i. e. "The English have interfered in no affairs of the Khalsa; what is the wisdom of your making (religious) war at the bidding of the soldiery? None of the nobles have discovered the real intentions of the English. The Governor General's agent, who is a steady friend, has written in the plainest terms, that the English Government desires only friendship like that of the late Maharaja Runjeet Singh; but that if any thing wrong is done by the Sikh army, the rulers of the kingdom will be held responsible, for rulers must account for the acts of their troops and subjects. Be cautious how you march to Hureekee with the troops.' The Rajah said, 'Bhaee Sahib, what can I do? if I remain, the soldiery seize me by the throat.'" 394 395 396 "The night of the 21st was the most extraordinary of my life. I bivouacked with the men, without food or covering, and our nights are bitter cold. A burning camp in our front, our bravo fellows lying down under a heavy cannonade, which continued during the whole night, mixed with the wild cries of the Sikhs, our English hurrah, the tramp of men, and the groans of the dying. In this state, with a handful of men, who had carried the batteries the night before, I remained till morning, taking very short intervals of rest by lying down with various regiments in succession, to ascertain their temper, and revive their spirits." "My answer to all and every man was, that we must fight it out, attack the enemy vigorously at daybreak, beat him, or die honourably in the field. The gallant old general, kindhearted, and heroically brave, entirely coincided with me." "During the night I occasionally called on our brave English soldiers to punish the Sikhs when they came too close and were impudent; and when morning broke we went at it in true English style. Gough was on the right. I placed myself, and dear little Arthur [his son] by my side, in the centre, about thirty yards in front of the men, to prevent their firing, and we drove the enemy without a halt from one extremity of the camp to the other, capturing thirty or forty guns as we went along, which fired at twenty paces from us, and were served obstinately. The brave men drew up in an excellent line, and cheered Gough and myself as we rode up the line, the regimental colours lowering to me as on parade. The mournful part is the heavy loss I have sustained in my officers. I have had ten aides-de-camp  hors de combat, 397 felix etiam opportunitate mortis." 398 399 Great and enthusiastic cheering greeted the right hon. Baronet from all sides of the House in the progress, and at the conclusion, of his speech. "That the Thanks of this House be given to the Right honourable Lieutenant General Sir Henry Hardinge, Governor General of India, Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath, for the energy and ability with which he directed the military means at his disposal, to the repelling of the unprovoked invasion by the Sikh army of the dominions of the British Government, and of the Protected States upon the left bank of the Sutlej; and also, for the firmness and gallantry with which he directed the operations of that portion of the army under his immediate command, in the afternoon and night of December 21st, 1845, and on the morning of the 22nd, upon which occasion the enemy's defences were carried by storm, the greater part of their artillery captured, and their subsequent attempts to regain what they had lost repeatedly defeated. "That the Thanks of this House be given to General Sir Hugh Gough, Baronet, Knight Grand
 400 "That the Thanks of this House be given to Major General Sir Henry George Smith, Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath, to Major General Walter Raleigh Gilbert, and to Major General Sir John Hunter Littler, Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath, and to the several Officers, European and Native, under their command, for the eminent services rendered by them in the recent arduous and successful operations. "That the Thanks of this House be given to the Non-Commissioned Officers and Private Soldiers, European and Native, for the perseverance and fortitude maintained by them at Moodkee on the 18th of December, 1845, and for the daring valour with which they forced the enemy's entrenchments at Ferozeshah on the 21st and 22nd of December, captured most of his guns, and finally compelled the Sikh Army, of greatly superior numbers, to retire within their own frontier. "That this Resolution be signified to them by the Commanders of the several Corps." " Ordered
 SIR R. PEEL  rose and took his stand at the Table, when
 SIR R. PEEL  said, the noble Lord might rely upon it every means should be adopted to communicate the fate of the non-commissioned officers and soldiers to their relatives.
 SIR R. PEEL  differed so little from the gallant Officer, that he had prepared a resolution to the same effect; but on referring to all past examples, be could find no precedent for such a resolution. The thanks of the House had always been confined to the survivors. In the vote of thanks after the battle of Trafalgar, no reference was made to Lord Nelson; and in the vote of thanks after the battle of Waterloo, Sir T. Picton was not mentioned. In giving the thanks of the House, it was highly important to adhere to precedents, not because they ought always to be strictly observed, but because it would be a source of regret to the relations of those who had formerly fallen, if a new precedent were made, and they had been passed by. As the other House had agreed to the vote as it stood, there would be a discrepancy if this resolution were added; and as there were no instances in which the names of those who had fallen had been included, he thought that the gallant Officer would not disturb the unanimity by pressing his Amendment.
 SIR R. PEEL  was not aware that he had spoken harshly of the principle to which the hon. Member referred; but he certainly had never heard it carried to the extent of permitting our throats to be cut, or to prevent exertions in self-defence; and he thought this a most inappropriate occasion to bring that principle forward.
 SIR R. PEEL  said: Sir, I presume it is not the wish of the great body of the House that we should continue this debate, to which twelve days have already been devoted. There are some points raised in this debate with respect to which I should wish to give some explanation; but as I shall probably have other opportunities of offering that explanation, I shall, in what I have now to say, simply confine myself to the question whether it be desirable that the repeal of the Corn duties should be immediate, or whether they should continue, as Her Majesty's Government propose, for a period of three years. Now, I am
 451 452 s.; s.; s., s. s. s., s. s. s.; s. s. s. s.; s., s. s. d. s. 453 s. d., s. 454 455 s. d. s. 456 s. s.,
 SIR R. PEEL  said, if they came to a vote now, it would not close the question on the Resolution. There were other amendments before the House, but probably the best course would to dispose first of the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman.
 SIR E. COLEBROOKE  only rose in consequence of the observation made by the hon. and gallant Member for Liverpool (Sir H. Douglas) with regard to the distinguished officer who had led the division in which the 62nd served. Having had the honour of the friendship, and he might say the intimacy of that distinguished officer, he wished to take that opportunity of making one remark. He had not understood the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) reflect on the conduct of Sir John Littler. [Sir R. PEEL: Hear.] He was glad to hear that cheer from the right hon. Baronet, because the hon. and gallant Member seemed to think that it would have been the most proper course for Sir John Littler to have passed by one of the principal events of the conflict, and to have mentioned it in a private despatch; and when the gallant officer sought to vindicate the conduct of the 62nd, he thought that if he had referred to the despatch of Sir John Littler, he would have found that vindication conveyed in most strong and effectual terms.
 MR. WILLIAMS WYNN  said, he was, like his noble relative on the other side (Lord Ebrington), most anxious that the Government should publish the names of all who had fallen in this engagement. He always thought the country had been deficient in this respect; and that not only for the satisfaction of the relatives, but as a fitting tribute for their services, the names of all who fell in battle should be recorded. He had the honour, at the time of the battle of Waterloo, when it was proposed to erect a monument to commemorate that victory, to propose that the name of every man who fell in that glorious engagement should be recorded. This proposition appeared to meet with universal approbation at the time, and he believed it was only because there was no precedent for it that it was not acceded to. But it should be remembered, that if there were no precedents for it in England, there were precedents for it in antiquity; and that the Greeks erected a pillar at Marathon, and recorded upon it the name of every man who fell in that engagement. He had only to observe, further, that he thought the attachment of the Native troops, evinced by the fact that no desertions took place, although they were fighting against those of their own faith and nation, was a circumstance which bore the most honourable testimony to the conduct of the British Government in India.
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  was anxious to address a few words to the Committee in explanation of the vote he was about to give, without making any reference, if he could possibly help it, to the debate on the Corn Law, on which, however, he should have been glad to speak had the opportunity been afforded him. He had always consistently voted against the proposition of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, on the question of the Corn Law, and it was his intention still to vote against that hon. Gentleman. But if he did not enter into some explanation in doing so, he might be liable to misrepresentation; for he desired
 466
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  suggested that when the list was received it should be published, to save the relations of the soldiers the necessity of writing to the Horse Guards.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he thought it would have been better if hon. Members had confined themselves within the wise limits marked out by the mover and seconder of this Motion, and had abstained altogether from commenting upon the policy of the Governor General. He concurred with the greatest pleasure in the vote of thanks to the Governor General, the Commander in Chief, and the gallant troops in India, and he heartily rejoiced to hear the gallant Officer who had just sat down vindicate one regiment from such harsh expressions, which must have been deeply galling to their feelings. But his object in rising was to ask the Government whether any measures had been taken to acquaint the relations of the privates and non-commissioned officers who were killed,
 418
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  said, it was usual, after a battle, to return a list of the officers and soldiers who had fallen to the Horse Guards, so that, by inquiry there, their relations might acertain what had become of them. In the present instance, however, no such list had been returned; but he hoped they would receive it by the next mail, when information would be readily afforded to all who applied for it.
 MR. VILLIERS , seeing the right hon. Baronet the Vice President of the Board of Trade in his place, would beg to ask him whether there was any account kept by the Customs or Board of Trade of the amount of damage done to foreign wheat detained in our warehouses, owing to the inability of the importers to pay the high duty? He was induced to put this question from a statement he had got of a circumstance which took place a few days ago at Gloucester. The statement was this:—
 "This week a quantity of foreign wheat, which had been imported by Messrs. Phillpotts and Co. of this port (Gloucester), but which had since be-
 502 s.
 MR. STAFFORD O'BRIEN  regretted that anything had occurred to disturb the celestial serenity of the hon. Member who just spoken. The evil to which attention was drawn was a plain one, and should be dealt with. None could deny the existence of an extensive association, with enormous funds at its command, one of the great objects of which was systematically to interfere in the registration of every county in the kingdom. The effect was to marshal every county into two parties—to fight the battle of registration by subscription—and to injure most deeply, as a necessary consequence, those who were unwilling to go to extreme lengths, either on one side or the other, in politics. The matter was not introduced at the present moment because, as the hon. Member had facetiously said, the Corn Law was dead, but they brought it forward to the notice of the House because they saw an association, a vast money-power, such as he had described, interfering in an unconstitutional manner with constitutional rights, and which was either to be left to its evil operation, or, to be effectually encountered, to be met by a similar association, thus perpetuating a similar evil. They asked the House to decide the case between them. That was
 521
 MR. E. ELLICE , JUN., understood hon. Gentlemen opposite to complain, not that it was necessary a battle should be fought, but that the weapons provided were unequal. In the county with which he was connected, the system condemned so loudly existed in full force; but it was practised by the party with whom the present complaint originated. There a Conservative registration association was formed by all the county men, the end sought after being to destroy, as far as was possible, the preponderating power of the Reformers—a wealthy party attempting to suppress freedom of opinion in the district boroughs, which were composed of the poorer classes. The evil was in Scotland incalculable; for unless assistance was afforded to the poor voters to go twenty miles to the Sheriff's Court, and defend his qualification, his name was struck off the list. If the hon. Member for Buteshire doubted the existence of fictitious votes, he had only to examine the evidence taken before a Committee of the House, asked for some years ago by the hon. Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Horsman), to convince himself of the fact being as had been stated. It would give him (Mr. Ellice) great gratification to see a corrective measure emanate from the Government.
 MR. O'CONNELL  wished to say one word only—one word for Ireland. He understood the complaint was that frivolous and vexatious notices of objections were served, compelling the voters to take long journeys for the purpose of proving their qualification. Now in Ireland, by the Irish law, it was not necessary to serve such objections, for every voter must go and state his case without any notice whatever. He must travel twenty miles, and in the county which he represented, fifty, to put his case on record; and if he failed to attend, and personally prove his qualification, he could not exercise his right to vote. There was no necessity for any notice of objection; if anybody questioned the vote, the case must be heard to the satisfaction of that individual. [Mr. FERRAND: Is that annually?] No, not annually; and that was another grievance; for the consequence of the registration system in Ireland was to afford facilities to the committing of fraud; so that the thing was worse. In the county which he represented, in three or four populous parishes there was not a man who could register a vote without travelling fifty miles or more, first, as in a case of ejectment, to substantiate his right. And what was the result? He represented a county with a population of 735,000, and only 2,300 were on the registry. He
 523
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said: I have always thought that the delivery of hundreds of objections, without inquiring whether the votes are good or not, is a great abuse; and many years ago I introduced a Bill upon the subject, in which I provided, as I thought, a remedy. I will not now discuss whether it was a proper remedy or not; but I proposed that, after the voter had been twice before the registration court, and had his name placed upon the list, his vote should not again be objected to, unless some particular circumstances had arisen to justify it, such as a change of occupation, or his parting with a portion of it. That was my remedy for what I considered as an abuse. I confess that it does not seem to me to make any difference in the case that the Anti-Corn-Law League have done this; and when hon. Gentlemen say that you must inquire into the subject because the Anti-Corn-Law League have done it; for my part I cannot see the sense or the justice of saying that you must inquire into it when it is done by the League; but you must leave the abuse to remain as it is when it is done by other political parties who have other aims in view than the abolition of the Corn Law. I think, as my hon. Friend the Member for Liskeard said, you should have a general remedy to prevent parties, for any purpose whatever, interposing this vexation, delay, and expense, which do, in fact, disfranchise many of the real freeholders. The hon. and learned Member for Buteshire (Mr. Wortley) has alluded to the creation of fictitious votes. I be-
 525 s. l. l. l.
 SIR T. D. ACLAND  thought it most unreasonable that the hon. Gentleman and the other Members of the League should, now that they were about to carry their object, hold their triumph incomplete, unless they could dictate the precise terms in which the concession should be made. It was quite natural that they should rejoice in the near fulfilment of their great project; and it did not beseem the hon. Member for Stockport to take the opportunity of raking up old speeches and old vexatious gibes,
 565 s., s.; s., s. s.
 The EARL of MARCH  was at a loss to know into which lobby some hon. Members could go with safety. The hon. Baronet opposite told them that the right hon. Baronet would not be safe in their lobby; but he should think, from the circum-
 567 Laughter. 568
 MR. VILLIERS  replied: The hon. Member for Warwickshire had just given them what he called exclusive information as to the opinion of tenant-farmers, on his (Mr. Villiers's) Amendment, which he had procured from somebody that morning. Now, in answer to that private communication, he would refer to the opinion deliberately expressed in the paper considered throughout the country as the organ of the farmers—he meant the  Mark Lane Express, Mark Lane Express 573 574 575
 MR. C. W. HOWARD  said, that he was in favour of an immediate repeal of the Corn Laws, and he had no faith in the predictions of those who anticipated evil consequences from such a measure. He thought, indeed, that some of the tenant-farmers would have to lay out more capital, to employ more labourers, and to raise a greater number of quarters of wheat from their farms. That would be the case in those instances particularly where the farmers were selected not so much for their skill and knowledge of farming, as for the votes which they would give at elections. He had such confidence in the skill and perseverance of Englishmen, that he was sure they would maintain their superiority over foreigners without the aid of Acts of Parliament. He always observed that the country was generally prosperous when manufactures prospered. The agriculturists of the north were in a better condition than those of the south, not because they had a more fertile soil or more genial seasons, but because they were close to an increasing market, and were more skilful. He considered that it would be better if the right hon. Baronet had taken the advice of the noble Lord the Member for London, and proposed an immediate repeal, because he believed it would be more for the interests of the agriculturists themselves, and because he did not think it just towards the great experiment they were making to bring free trade to a test, when they might perhaps have concurrently abundant harvests in this country and on the Continent. But he felt so strongly that the measure was for the benefit of the country, that rather than, endanger it, he would vote for the proposition of the right hon. Baronet.
 LORD WORSLEY  was understood to say that he was acquainted with many persons who were extensive farmers of land, and as far as he could ascertain their opinions on the subject, he believed that their wishes were that the repeal of the Corn Laws, if carried at all, should be immediate. He believed that they now anxiously wished that there should at last be a settlement of the question.
 MR. C. BERKELEY  moved the appointment of Members upon the Select Committee on the petition from Cheltenham in favour of a repeal of the Corn Laws. The hon. Member begged the members of the Anti-Corn-Law League, who were Members of the House, to understand that he was influenced by no motive of hostility to them in moving for this Committee. He thought it was a rule, not only in private but in public life, that where fraud or imposition was alleged, it ought to be traced up. Long diatribes had been directed against him, charging him with being actuated, in moving for this Committee, by general hostility towards the hon. Member for Durham, because he had moved for a Committee on the Game Laws; and other allegations much too contemptible to mention. He utterly denied that he was influenced by hostility to the Gentlemen of the League, or to any other persons whatever.
 MR. LIDDELL  could not place much confidence in the statements of the hon. Member who had just sat down respecting the opinions of the farmers, particularly when he recollected what the preconceived and long avowed sentiments of the hon. Member were on this question. The question which the House had to decide was, whether they would accept the modified proposal of the Government, or consent to a total and immediate repeal. It was very well for hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House, whose opinions on the Corn Laws were well known, to support the Amendment of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton; but he thought that hon. Member could only ask the support of hon. Members on that side of the House on two grounds: first, upon the ground of the necessity of an immediate supply of cheap food as regarded Ireland; and, secondly, considering the state of the corn markets in the whole universe at present—considering that no superfluity of corn existed anywhere, and that from the failure of the potato crop in other parts of the world, the prices of the continental markets were much more nearly on an equality with the markets of this country than they would probably be at the expiration of three years — taking into account these facts, the question was, whether it would not be more to the advantage of the agriculturists to have a total and immediate repeal rather than postponement? As regarded the first ground, the question of impending famine to Ireland, he was one of those who certainly would not have condemned the Government for opening the ports on their own responsibility, if they apprehended a famine there. But the Government had taken a different view of the subject. They were not now called on to consider the
 544 per se, s. s. s. s. s. s. s. d. s. 545
 MR. WORTLEY  was enabled, fully, to confirm the statements of the hon. Member for Halifax touching the system carried on
 518 bonâ fide
 LORD G. BENTINCK : The hon. Gentleman has said that we are a selfish party, and that we cannot be content with our fair share of the government of the coun-
 554 l. l. l. l. l. l., l. 555 Prussian Royal Gazette. 556 s. d. s. s. d. s.; s. d. s. d. s. s. d. s., s. s. s. s.; s. d. s., s. d. s. d., 557 s. d., s. s. d. s. d., s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. 558 s. s. l. l. l. l.
 MR. LAWSON  said, the right hon. Baronet had told them that he was of the same opinion to-day as yesterday, and appeared to think that such an assertion would hardly find credit with the House, for he had repeated it twice. He was glad to hear the right hon. Baronet deny that he had any connexion with the Anti-Corn-Law League; but from what they had seen this Session, he thought the hon. Member for Warwickshire had some cause to imagine such a connexion might exist; but as it had been denied, of course he and other Gentlemen were bound to believe there was none.
 MR. DISRAELI  wished, as his name had been very unexpectedly brought into the discussion, to say a few words in ex-
 513
 MR. ADDERLEY  thought, that a separate Committee appointed specifically to inquire into the subject of the annoying notices of objections, would be better than the adoption of the instruction which his hon. Friend had moved to the Committee appointed to inquire into the circumstances attending the manufacture of the Cheltenham petition in the town of Manchester. If his hon. Friend, however, pressed his Motion, he (Mr. Adderley) should support it, because he thought there was some analogy between the two subjects. He, however, was of opinion that legislation would be necessary to cure the evils which were most justly complained of as existing in the registration courts. He knew that a Bill had been prepared by a Friend of his, and would shortly be introduced; but still he (Mr. Adderley) hoped that an inquiry into the subject would be gone into before that Bill came under consideration. If the House would permit him, he would read, very shortly, some extracts from a petition he had received, very numerously signed, from North Staffordshire. The petition he meant to present as early as he could, and to move that it be printed with the Votes. The petitioners stated that although their names had been on the register of voters for North Staffordshire for many years, and that the sufficiency of their qualification was notorious amongst their neighbours, and easily to be ascertained by any person who justly wished to clear the registry of improper votes, they had, to the number of two thousand, been served with most frivolous and vexatious notices of objection, which were signed
 510
 MR. C. BULLER  said, he differed in opinion from hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the House. He did not see the necessity for this inquiry at all. They had arrived at a stage far beyond inquiry. Every person on both sides of the House was quite convinced of the enormity and extent of the evil, and was perfectly prepared to give a favourable reception to the remedy. He did not know whether it would be a proper Amendment to move upon the Motion of the hon. Member for Warwickshire, but he confessed he felt inclined to move that leave be given to the hon. Mem-
 516
 MR. NEWDEGATE , in explanation, begged, in reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Finsbury, to
 509 Cries of
 MR. NEWDEGATE  rose to move—
 "That it be an Instruction to the Select Committee on the Petition from Cheltenham, that they do inquire into an alleged organized and extensive system of fraudulent and vexatious objections to the Votes of a great number of duly qualified Electors for the Northern Division of Warwickshire, the Northern Division of Staffordshire, and certain Divisions of other Counties." 503 504 l. 505 506 507
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he begged to withdraw his Motion.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  wished to say that he had in his possession evidence of the feelings of the tenants, which he thought was scarcely in the possession of any other hon. Member. It had been asserted by the noble Lord the Member for Lincolnshire, that the opinion of the tenant-farmers of this country was in favour of immediate repeal. Now, he had an opportunity that day, within a few hours of coming to the House, of meeting many most intelligent tenant-farmers from various counties; and although he admitted that in the bitter disappointment they had felt at the sudden and unaccountable change of those whom they had trusted, such an expression might have fallen from them, as that they wished the question settled; yet he distinctly de-
 572
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  wished to say a few words before the Committee divided. As some of Her Majesty's Ministers were still without seats in Parliament, he would,
 570
 MR. C. WOOD  said, the hon. Member for Knaresborough had complained of the objections served in the West Riding of Yorkshire; but the hon. Member had been himself as great a sinner in this way as any one. On one occasion a great number of notices of objections were sent, signed by the hon. Member himself, and one of them was delivered to the hon. Member's
 517
 MR. BANKES  said, that the right hon. Baronet, when he spoke last night, had made an allegation, and drawn an inference from that allegation, in both of which he (Mr. Bankes) had reason to believe he was entirely mistaken. The right hon. Baronet had alleged that the hon. Member for Somersetshire (Mr. W. Miles) had said in his place in that House, that he was decidedly in favour of the immediate and entire abolition of the Corn Laws, in preference to the proposition of the Government. He had not been in the House himself when his hon. Friend had spoken; but on hearing of the inference drawn from his hon. Friend's words, he had asked him whether it were
 528 529 l. 530
 MR. BANKES  explained, when he heard what the right hon. Baronet had stated as the opinion of the hon. Member for Somersetshire, he asked his hon. Friend did he say so and so? when he expressed himself thus—"I did not, nor had I any such intention of so expressing myself."
 MR. FINCH  would confine what he had to say to as few words as possible, and would limit himself to the subject then before the House; and in the first place, he wished no doubt to be entertained in reference to his sentiments. He preferred the proposition of the right hon. Baronet to that of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton; but at the same time he had not the slightest desire that that proposition should be passed by that House, although he preferred it to the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman opposite, in case either of the propositions were to be adopted by them. He was in favour of having the protection continued for three years, in order that, before the term expired, when the injurious working of the scheme should be known, and the Legislature would have an opportunity of seeing that the country would be going to ruin through its influence, that they should have time to retrace their steps. He had seen a great deal of the agriculturists of England, and had taken an honest part in their exertions, and he believed that they were the most persevering body of people in the world; and from what he knew of them, he was quite sure that the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had spoken in reference to them under some misapprehension. Agricultural improvement had been going on for forty years. In 1816, to so great a height had agriculture improved, that Lord Brougham stated that no fewer than 1,200 Inclosure Bills had been passed within the previous ten years, which included no less a space of land than 2,000,000 of acres. He also stated that the greatest improvement had taken place in the cultivation of land; not only had large tracts of country that were previously in a barren state been brought into cultivation, but the land under cultivation was very considerably improved, and yielded greater produce, and where there
 535 536 537 538 l. l. l. l. l. l. 539
 MR. HUDSON  said, that he should not have troubled the House but for the appeal which had been made to him by the hon. Member for Stockport. That hon. Member had misrepresented a statement which had fallen from him on a former occasion. What he had stated—and if the hon. Member for Stockport had read all the debates he must have seen it—was, that at the end of the three years, the probable average would be 35 s. s., s. 569
 MR. MOFFAT  considered that the arguments advanced by the noble Lord the Member for London, on the previous night, had been quite conclusive as to the advantage to be derived from an immediate repeal of the Corn Laws—an opinion in which hon. Gentlemen opposite appeared fully to concur. All parties, in fact, seemed quite agreed upon the point, until it came to the part where they were called upon to pass it, and all appeared equally inclined to shrink from doing so. The right hon. Baronet seemed to be afraid to move in the right direction; and the noble Lord was inclined to keep in his wake. He had no explanations to make,
 534
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, with respect to the crimination and recrimination upon this subject, he thought one party had been as much to blame as the other. The only question to be considered was whether they should proceed by inquiry, or by bringing in a Bill. He hoped that the admissions made on all sides would preclude the necessity of a Committee; both sides seemed anxious that a Bill should be brought in. But he warned whoever brought in that Bill not to attempt to tamper with the registration, which would not remedy the abuse. Much might be done by simplifying the suffrage, and more by extending the suffrage; they would do little good if they did not largely extend the suffrage, stopping not much short of household suffrage, He agreed with the noble Lord, that the moment a created vote was actually made it was as good as any other; but supposing the Anti-Corn-Law League—he put the supposition in their case not by way of complaint, but of illustration—supposing that or any other body, with large funds at command, were to employ them in procuring votes to a great extent throughout the kingdom: they did not purchase votes, but they persuaded people to purchase votes. So far, so good; but suppose some great body persuaded people to purchase votes, they would got a set of instruments for their own purposes. Their object might be good or bad: he believed the object of the Anti-Corn Law League to be a good one; but if it might be employed for a good purpose, it might be abused for a bad one. Every voter so made would be,  pro hac vice,
 MR. BRIGHT  observed, in explanation of what been said by the hon. Member for Dorsetshire, that he had fallen into an error with respect to the amount of money paid by the Duke of Rutland for damage done by game upon his estate near Bakewell, in Derbyshire, that the estate in question consisted of 3,700 acres, a great portion of which was land to a great extent uncultivated. Some portion of the farms were arable, and some pasture land, and he said that 916 l. 532
 MR. BRIGHT  desired to assure the hon. Member for Buteshire (Mr. Wortley), that Mr. Ashworth, of the Anti-Corn-Law League, had taken no part in the signature of the objection which it was mentioned had been received by the hon. Member. With respect to the creation of freeholds, he was enabled, with equal confidence, to declare that the Anti-Corn-Law League had not only never recommended the creation of such votes in the way alluded to, but had consistently, both in the speeches of its lecturers and in its authorized writings, given the public to understand that all such votes were untenable, unjust, and in defiance of every fair principle of registration founded upon the
 519 bonâ fide in extremis 520
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, formerly the hon. Gentlemen were the objectors; in his own borough 700 objections had been served, his own vote having been objected to for four years successively. He should be glad to see the system rectified; indeed it had rectified itself to a considerable extent. When it was found by Gentlemen on this side of the House that they could get no redress from the House they adopted the same policy. "When bad men combine, good men must unite." He thought the Anti-Corn-Law League had done much service by the exertion they had made; they had also endeavoured to
 515
 MR. HUME  said his vote had been objected to for three successive years. He hoped the time had come when there was a disposition in both parties to look fairly at the subject, and that they might have as many voters as possible who were honestly entitled to the franchise; for he
 526
 MR. HUME  must say a few words in reply to the hon. Member who had just sat down. The hon. Member for Durham (Mr. Bright) had congratulated himself that protection was dead and buried; but it seemed to have risen again, not exactly like a giant refreshed, in the person of the hon. Member for Evesham. That hon. Member, amongst many other curious observations, had said that not one of the writers upon
 552 s. d., 553
 MR. BORTHWICK  wished, in the first place, to say a word upon the adjournment last night. Hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House had been called factious. Hon. Gentlemen complained of these protracted debates, and stated that commerce and agriculture were suffering alike under these protracted discussions. Now, he would ask the House, and he would ask Her Majesty's Government, to whom was the country indebted for these protracted discussions? In October, 1845, it was acknowledged on all hands that the country was quiet—that the Exchequer was overflowing—that trade was prosperous—that the labourers were employed; in short, that there was no aspect in which we
 546 547 548 "The serious inroad made by taxation on the produce of the land and labour of the country may be further illustrated, by comparing it with the produce either of agricultural or manufacturing industry. Without pretending to minute accuracy, which, on such subjects, is unattainable, the quantity and value of the corn annually grown in England, may be estimated as under:— 
 
 Wheat, 14,000,000 quarter at 50 s. £35,000,000 
 Barley, 5,000,000 quarter at 30 s. 7,500,000 
 Oats, peas, and beans, 12,000,000 16,000 000 
 Oats, peas, and beans, at 25 s. 
 £58,500,000 We incline to think that this estimate is near the mark, at all events it is underrated; and, supposing it to be about accurate, it shows that the value of the share of the produce of the land and labour
 549 550 "Commerce, however we may please ourselves with the contrary opinion, is one of the daughters of Fortune, inconstant and deceitful as her mother. She chooses her residence where she is at least expected, and shifts her abode when her continuance is, in appearance, most firmly settled. Who can read the present distresses of the Genoese, whose only choice now remaining is from what monarch they shall solicit protection?—who can see the Hanseatic towns in ruins, where perhaps the inhabitants do not always equal the number of the houses; but he will say to himself, these are the cities whose trade enabled them once to give laws to the world—to whose merchants princes sent their jewels in pawn, from whose treasuries armies were paid and navies supplied? And who can then forbear to consider trade as a weak and uncertain basis of power, and to wish for his own country greatness more solid, and felicity more durable?" "By agriculture only can commerce be perpetuated, and by agriculture alone can we live in plenty without intercourse with other nations. This, therefore, is the great art which every government ought to protect, every proprietor of lands to practise, and every inquirer into nature to improve." 551
 MR. BORTHWICK  was sorry that he could not say, with the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, that they were all agreed; because he really thought they were not. He would go to the original question—whether an inquiry should be instituted into the highly unconstitutional proceedings of the Anti-Corn-Law League. He thought that the debate upon that question had been turned to another subject, namely, the nature of the Registration Act. He did not mean to say that that was not a question which demanded the attention of the House; but at the same time it was a totally distinct question. The real question before the House was, whether certain acts so unconstitutional as to be subversive in their nature of the entire system of English laws, had been perpetrated by that body which
 522
 MR. COBDEN  said, one part of the speech of the noble Lord who had just sat down went to show how very cheap they might get corn in this country if they allowed it to come in duty free. The other part was in reference to the proceedings of a Committee which had not yet reported to that House. He would not dwell upon the admissions of the noble Lord, or upon the great defeat which the principles he advocated had experienced, further than to say that this was a subject of great exultation to the people of this country, mingled with some little indignation at the immense injustice which had been practised upon them for so many years. But the noble Lord had given us 31 s. d. s., 559 from the Protectionists 560 561 s. d. s. d. 562 563 564 a laugh
 MR. M. MILNES  should be exceedingly glad if a remedy could be applied to the evils which had been the subject of that evening's discussion; and he trusted that when the question again came before them, Ireland would not be forgotten; for he thought it would be altogether contrary to the whole spirit of the administration of the right hon. Baronet if he remedied the evils in England, and left them to continue in Ireland. In saying this, he wished to protest against the assumption of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Liskeard (Mr. C. Buller), who, with his usual amusing ability, had attempted to lay down the position that the guilt of the case, whatever it might be, was perfectly equal between the two parties; or, if possible, if such a thing could be imagined, there was greater guilt on that, the Ministerial, side of the House. Now, he would merely ask his hon. and learned Friend whether, if the landowners were to parcel out portions of their estates for the purpose of making votes, and meet the Anti-Corn-Law League with their own weapons, they would not be able, with the greatest facility, to beat the League out of the field. He was certain that in his county Lord Harewood could, out of his own estate alone, make as many votes as the League. But he rejoiced to say that the landowners of England had not entered into what he considered such an unworthy conflict. He believed that the spirit of the county representation implied the requisite of residence; and that the Members for counties should represent the opinions of the electors resident in those counties. If all the sums collected by the Anti-Corn-Law League were devoted to the purpose of enabling the farmers of England to give anti-corn-law votes, he thought it would be a rather expensive proceeding. Indeed, it would be very difficult for the League to impress upon the mind of the public that their quarter of a million of money was to be spent solely in facilitating votes. Why, everybody knew what "facilitating votes"
 524 bonâ fide
 MR. SPOONER  observed, that the hon. Member for Finsbury had charged the Member for North Warwickshire with unfairly charging the Anti-Corn-Law League with being mixed up with the proceedings. The facts were these. The same witness, appeared in court as a witness for the Anti-Corn-Law League. He was called by the
 512
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he had listened very attentively to the statement which had been made to the House by the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Newdegate), and he agreed with the hon. Member that no light case was suggested to the consideration of the House; for, both perjury and a vexatious system of giving notices of objection to voters, had been attributed to some agent of the Anti-Corn-Law League. But he would ask the House, admitting
 508
 MR. T. S. DUNCOMBE  said, he had already stated that he should give his
 566
 MR. WAKLEY : I regret exceedingly, Sir, to find that the hon. and learned Member for Wolverhampton persists in dividing the House upon his Motion. However much I may approve of his intentions, and however highly I may commend the purity of his motives, I cannot conceive a more inexpedient course can be pursued by any Member friendly to the measure of Her Majesty's Government, than by dividing the House upon this question. I believe that he has taken this step in conformity with pledges given elsewhere, and, therefore, that the hon. and learned Member does not feel at liberty to abandon the course which he is about to pursue. I feel, however, that it is a most unfortunate step, because out of doors it may have the effect of producing an impression that there is on the part of those who are friendly to the measure of the Government a divided opinion on this great question. But, Sir, there is no division among them; and I think that the country will find that those who go out into the lobby with the hon. and learned Member for Wolverhampton are the most earnest, the most serious, and the most strenuous advocates of the measure of the Government. Hon. Gentlemen opposite may imagine that a different opinion will obtain among the people. But how little do those Gentlemen know of public opinion! So mistaken are they upon the bearing of public opinion on this question, that a noble Lord who addressed the House a few minutes ago claimed Westminster as a proof that public opinion was in favour of the party to which he belongs. Why, Sir, there were two candidates for Westminster; one of whom had long been a determined repealer of the Corn Laws; the other, one who had received some new light on this question. Whom did the electors choose? They chose not the man who had taken a transitory view of the question, but him who had for years been the steady friend of a repeal of the Corn Laws. The Whigs, also, have no right to claim that election
 571
 MR. WAKLEY  considered the present system of registration a bad one. Under it the most fraudulent practices frequently took place. But the matter was certainly of too much importance to be incidentally referred to a Committee appointed to consider another subject with which that of the system of registration had no legitimate connexion. He trusted the Motion would be withdrawn. The Government, he was sure, would feel prepared to lend their aid in the correction of the system, which could not be effected in the clumsy way now proposed. The hon. Gentleman dealt very hardly with the Anti-Corn-Law League. He had charged a man with forgery, and yet adopted his testimony as sufficient to warrant him in accusing and condemning the League; and so lightly and delicately had the party of the hon. Member dealt with that man, that though he was charged with atrocious crimes, they had done nothing to bring him to justice.
 MR. FERRAND  said, they did not quarrel with making good votes, but to sending objections to votes known to be good before, which was quite the reverse. The same system of objecting had been carried on in the West Riding of Yorkshire; and the noble Lord (Lord Morpeth) was returned in consequence of the wholesale objections that had been made against the voters of that district. His own vote had been objected to for four years in succession; and he could get no redress till he threatened to bring an action against the objecting party for the costs he was put to. The same system had been carried on in every county; and if the League was permitted to pursue this course, in a few years they would swamp all the  bonâ fide
 MR. FERRAND  begged the indulgence of the House while he replied to the personal attack just made on him by the hon. Member. When the hon. Member talked of what took place several years ago, he should have said that he (Mr. Wood) had just been prompted by some one within the last half minute. [Mr. C. WOOD: I do deny it most distinctly.] The hon. Gentleman had insinuated that he had been objector-general to votes in the West Riding; that he had made objections to a great number of votes. In that division he was, as chairman of the registration committee, called upon, and he did sign notices of objection; but at all times when doing so he had stated distinctly, that nothing should induce him to be a party to objecting to votes unless good grounds were shown for the proceeding. He had objected to the vote of the hon. Member for Bradford, his relative, and he had done so for this reason—that a person who for three years in succession had objected to his vote, had received a silver teapot for his services, towards the payment of which his relative had been a subscriber. He had then, incensed at this, declared that if he received in the fourth year another objection, he would, in retaliation, object to his relative's qualification. It was on that ground alone that he had so acted, and he considered that he was fully justified.
 MR. WYNN ELLIS  said, the system of making objections had been acted on for many years past; he had himself been objected to during the last year; on inquiry it would be found that no less than 2,000 persons had been so objected to in the county in which he had a franchise, and all the objections proceeded from the Conservative party. If the Anti-Corn-Law had adopted the same system, they had only acted on the example of the other party.
 SIR G. CLERK  said, that no return of that kind had been made by the Board of Customs to the Treasury or the Board of Trade; but he apprehended that there could be no difficulty in obtaining the information which the hon. Member required. He would make inquiries on the subject.
 SIR G. GREY  hoped the inquiry, if gone into, would not be narrowed to the facts alleged. It should extend to the whole working of the Registration Act. He had before expressed the opinion that the provisions of that Act exposed voters to very vexatious proceedings. Objections of much force had been stated to the Act; but there was no remedy. He thought it but a just arrangement that those parties who had once established their right to vote, should not be liable to have their right challenged from year to year. The evil had been more felt by hon. Gentlemen on that side of the House. The shoe now pinched on the other side. He trusted this inquiry, when instituted, would be carried out with a view to remove the sources of vexation, which parties of different political opinions availed themselves of not for honest purposes, but for the mere sake of annoyance.
 MR. WARD  said, not one syllabic of the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, with the exception of the last sentence, bore on the question before the House. This was particularly hard on the House. The hon. Gentleman had an opportunity of being heard in the course of the debate; but it would seem that he had then forgotten one-half of his arguments, which occurred to him afterwards, and that he took this opportunity of inflicting the forgotten half upon the House. Some of the hon. Gentleman's commercial principles were so untenable and so unsound, that it was impossible to avoid giving them a reply; but, in referring to them, he should abstain as much as possible from going at present into any other part of the subject. When the hon. Gentleman talked of the repeal of the malt tax as a boon to the agricultural interest, let it be recollected that ninety-nine parts of a hundred of that tax were paid by the consumer at present. But if they repealed the malt tax, they must substitute a property tax;
 540 541 Hansard 542 543
 SIR J. HANMER  said, he had had so many opportunities of expressing his entire satisfaction in the measures introduced by the right hon. Baronet, that he did not consider it would have been necessary to offer any further opinion, unless upon such circumstances as might arise in the course of the debate. He regretted the protraction of that debate, as he considered it prejudicial to the interests of the country, more
 533
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that that part of his hon. Friend's speech astonished him very much, in which he said, that he (Sir R. Peel), in making the few observations which he did last night in reference to the speech made by the hon. Member for Somersetshire (Mr. W. Miles), upon the Amendment
 531 s.
 SIR R. PEEL : When this question was brought under the notice of the House, I stated that in my opinion it was not advisable to devolve on the Committee appointed yesterday any other inquiry than that which had been specially referred to it, but that it would be infinitely better that the Committee should direct its attention exclusively to the alleged breach of the privileges of this House. That opinion I still maintain. It is very easy for the hon. Gentleman to insinuate a collusion between a Minister of the Crown and an hon. Gentleman a Mem-
 511
 SIR R. PEEL  said: I wish to refer to what I did say upon that occasion. The hon. Member for Stockport had stated—
 "In what I said, I intended—and I believe everybody understood what I meant—to speak of the right hon. Baronet as the head of the Government; I used the words 'individually responsible,' as the right hon. Baronet uses the personal pronoun when he says, 'I passed the Tariff, and you supported me.' I treated the right hon. Baronet as the Government." "I am bound to accept the construction the hon. Gentleman puts on the language he employed; but he uses the words in a marked manner, and others put a different interpretation upon them, and thought that by 'individual' he meant 'personal.'" 514
 MR. HUTT  wished to correct an error into which his hon. Friend had fallen, in supposing that corn from Bremen was corn from the Baltic; Bremen being on the Weser, which fell into the North Sea or German Ocean. He could account for the cheapness of freight in the instance alluded to, by informing his hon. Friend that the ship which carried the wheat was engaged upon a voyage of discovery, and was ready to take any cargo offered; and as regarded the low prices at which wheat had been sold at Hull, it was not so surprising as the statement made that evening by the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, that a quantity of wheat had been actually destroyed in the Severn, on account of the high rate of duty, which made it not worth the importer's while to free it. In 1836, wheat in this country was selling so low as 32 s. s.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  rejoiced to hear what had fallen from the hon. Member who just spoken. He had been anxious to state, with reference to the question of
 527
 VISCOUNT INGESTRE  perfectly concurred in the observations of the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard; the question was one far above party; the effects of the abuse were fatal to the constituency at large. He thought a name once placed on the list and properly proved ought to remain there.
 VISCOUNT SANDON  said, the system was an improper one, and he did not care with which party it originated. At present every man was bound to be at his town or country residence a certain time of the year to protect his vote; if absent it was endangered. That was an unconstitutional impediment to the free enjoyment of the elective franchise. In Lancashire, 2,000 objections had been sent, and they all came through the Manchester post-office; they were scattered over a period of three weeks, and the result had been that many gentlemen of undoubted property had been struck off the list. He hoped this system would be put an end to.
 VISCOUNT CLIVE  said, that the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down had treated the question in a very different manner from the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department. The right hon. Baronet having been on the Committee, was willing to grapple with the question, to agree to relaxations of the law, and bring it into a state in unison with the wants of the times; but the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary said he would have nothing to do with the question, he would reject the Bill, and stand upon the experience of the century during which the Act of George II. had been in force, forgetting that in twenty-five years from the passing of that Act its provisions and workings were found so oppressive, and so calculated to put a stop to charitable and good works, that a special Act was passed, exempting Queen Anne's Bounty from its operation; for the building of churches had been stopped by it. Who, in modern times,
 592 ab libitum c'y près uses, 593
 MR. O'CONNELL  said, he should have felt much more grateful to the hon. Baronet if he had condescended to communicate with him before he had made a statement which was unjust to Dr. Meyler. The hon. Baronet had no better proof of the facts he had stated than a newspaper. [Sir R. INGLIS: It was a report of the trial.] The facts were these: The will was deliberately made and proved; the cause was debated on both sides, and was heard before an extremely able judge, Dr. Keating, who pronounced in favour of the will, which was admitted to probate. The very rev. Dr. Meyler had no pecuniary interest whatever in the will; not one penny of the money was left to him—it was all bequeathed to charitable purposes. No community had a more respectable person than the Dean of the Archdeaconry of Dublin. The facts of the case were these. He did not pledge himself to minute accuracy on trivial matters; but it appeared that the lady lived with her brother, not her father. [Sir R. INGLIS: I said her brother.] The hon. Baronet said both father and brother.
 MR. O'CONNELL : From an early period of her life this lady declared her intention to bequeath her property to charity. Her brother knew this fact, and he had the fullest opportunity of endeavouring to change her intention, but she adhered to her intention: the will was deliberatively made; and he asked, where was the evidence of undue influence? The statements of counsel, upon which the hon. Baronet had relied, were not the best evidence against the other party. He wished to set the House right upon another matter. The Statute of George II. was never enacted for Ireland; how, then, could it apply to Ireland? It did not apply to that country; there was no such Statute applicable to Ireland till the Charitable Bequests Act; and what did that do? It did nothing with reference to the law of mortmain. The Lord Chancellor (Sir E. Sugden) declared that the charitable bequests were legal, and there was not a single enactment in the Act to the contrary. Schemes for charitable bequests came before the Court of Chancery, were considered by the Master, and settled by a decree of the Lord Chancellor. The Charitable Bequests Act did not touch the matter at all: it enacted merely that the will or deed must be executed not less than three months previous to the death of the testator or grantor; that was the only limitation. See how the case stood in England. No devise of land in such a case was valid: you could not give the land itself, but you could give the full amount of the value of the land, or make the bequest a charge upon the land. There ought not to be one law for England, another for Ireland, and another for Scotland. He hoped the noble Lord would remember the lesson he had learnt to-day, not to make too great a concession to an adversary. If he had not done so, he would not have seen his concession to the prejudices of others construed into an admission of the soundness of those prejudices. The hon. Baronet said that securities were necessary. Why, a billion of personal property had passed through the Court of Probate in the last fifty years; and what securities had there been for that amount of property? It was time for some alteration, and for some relaxation of the religious rules excluding charities. Had they too much church property? Were they overloaded
 599
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he could not suffer this discussion to close without offering a few observations upon the subject. He believed that the noble Lord had paid the greatest attention to the subject; and it was with very great regret that, after the most careful consideration, he could not consent to the second reading of this Bill. It was necessary to understand the question. They were called upon to decide upon the propriety of repealing the Act 9 George II., c. 36, and to substitute some other provision in lieu of it. The House had been referred to a Report of the Committee of 1844 on Mortmain, for an explanation of all the details of the subject, and for proper information. He had turned to that Report, and he had found a most remarkable inaccuracy in the very outset of it; for he found it there stated that the 9 George II., c. 36, was treated and acknowledged as the existing law on the subject of mortmain. But it was not only not the existing law on the subject of mortmain, but the Act was not at all applicable to mortmain; and if the House looked at the evidence of Sir Francis Palgrave (who had been characterized as the modern Selden) they would find such a clear and distinct explanation of the Statute of 9 George II., c. 36, as should have prevented any mistake. Sir Francis said—
 "In the first place, the term mortmain, in the way in which it is used in common discourse, and generally employed, is in some degree inaccurate. Mortmain, in a legal sense, means simply the acquisition of real property by corporate bodies having perpetual succession; but in common language it is applied to the restrictions imposed by the 9th George II., which prevent the giving of landed property to charitable purposes. It is very important to call the attention of the Committee to this distinction, because the erroneous or conversational sense has been sanctioned by great authorities; for example, by Sir William Grant,
 600 601 "Whereas gifts, or alienations of lands, tenements, or hereditaments, in mortmain, are prohibited or restrained by Magna Charta, and divers other wholesome laws, as prejudicial to and against the common utility; nevertheless, this public mischief has of late greatly increased by many large and improvident alienations or dispositions made by languishing or dying persons, or by other persons, to uses called charitable uses, to take place after their deaths, to the disherison of their lawful heirs." 602 603 "Would you admit it to be a doctrine of your Church, upon which you would practically act, that it would be your duty, in case you found a penitent upon his death-bed, to incline him to leave bequests to charitable and religious purposes, for the advantage and good of his soul?—I never
 604 "My question was, whether such conduct, or persuasion of the penitent, would be considered as dogmatically incorrect?—I think it would not be dogmatically correct." "Is it your opinion that the Catholic clergy have the means of exercising undue influence to procure money from their penitents, to the injury of their families?—If they are so profligate as to avail themselves of it, they certainly have the means; and I am quite certain, in practice, that I could often have got large sums, if I had tried. "Have you any reason to believe that any Roman Catholic clergyman does use that influence?—Yes, I have had reason to believe so; not in very great sums. "Do the Roman Catholic clergy interfere in making wills for their penitents, so as to get property for themselves, or for charitable purposes?—I believe so; and I have heard of instances from such respectable authority, that I can entertain no doubt that it is sometimes done." inops concilii 605
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  would vote against the Bill, as being wholly uncalled for, and opposed both to the principle and the policy of the law of England. His hon. Friend who had last addressed the House, had correctly stated that the difference that existed, was between law that affected real and personal property; but he wondered that it had not occurred to his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. C. Buller) that it would be utterly impossible, consistently with the law of England, to assimilate real and personal property. A distinction between them almost universally pervaded the law. With respect to the disposition allowed by this Bill of real and personal estates for charitable purposes, that which was personal and was devoted to charitable purposes, was not against the policy of the law; but if the same provisions were brought to bear on real estates, they would be contrary to the first principles and the policy of the law. When he looked at the first clause of the Bill, and found that this, its essential provision, enabled any person to dispose by will or deed of real as well as of personal estates to any amount, and without any restriction, he thought it could hardly have occurred to the framer of the clause to what extent its operation would militate against the principles of the law; and it would be impossible to amend this clause without altering the whole principle of the
 611 612 613 forma pauperis.
 MR. HODGSON  also bore testimony to the dissatisfaction which prevailed. The Act was passed in a considerable hurry, and there was no time given to consider its details. He would impress upon the right hon. Baronet, that, in bringing in any amended Bill, he should take care that its provisions were duly considered; and to do this with advantage, he deemed it to be highly expedient that persons who possessed the necessary information should be consulted. In the parish of St. George, there was the strongest feeling of disapprobation as to the present Act; still he would not go the length of asking the right hon. Baronet to propose the repeal of the law, but to introduce an amended Bill at a period of the Session sufficiently early to enable the House to reconsider the whole matter.
 LORD J. MANNERS  hoped the House would allow him to notice a few of the objections which had been made to his Motion. The case of the Marquess of Westminster, which he had previously mentioned, but did not wish to fatigue the House by fully detailing, had been stated by the Solicitor General not to be a case in point. The hon. and learned Gentleman must have arrived at that conclusion without a perfect knowledge of its nature. He held in his hand the fullest details, which, though he had not the permission of the gentleman who entrusted the documents to him to read at length, he would read an extract from one of them, which would put the House in possession of the facts, and show the hardships which the present law entailed. The late Marquess of Westminster, in September, 1844, conveyed certain trusts for the purpose of building a church, a school, and twelve almshouses in Chelsea, setting forth the site, &c. Early in the following spring the Marquess died, three or four months ofter the execution of the deed. In consequence of the estate of the late Marquess being entailed, the present Marquess, although most desirous to fulfil the wishes of his deceased father, could not do so, according to the present state of the law, unless some Bill were brought into Parliament giving the necessary powers. The writer of the above statement added, that he had been looking forward with the most sanguine expectations to the realizations of the intentions of the deceased nobleman; "but all our hopes will be cut short by the cruel law of mortmain." He (Lord J. Manners) thought, where such cases existed as that, there was need for legislative interference. From a wish not to occupy the attention of the House, he had not mentioned another case; but, challenged as he had been to show the inconveniences of the present law, he hoped the House would allow him shortly to state it. The letter was interesting. The writer said—
 "I inherit a small estate from my father—a few acres—a small thing, but mine own. I entertain the same sort of affectionate feeling towards it as the nobleman for the manor which his ancestors have lived in for ages. Every possessor of property must feel anxious about its final disposal. I have no relative except one, who is far advanced in years, and whom, in the course of nature, I must outlive. Under these circumstances, my duty pointed to the poor of the parish in which the property is situated as the nearest heirs. But the law is such that I cannot leave my little patrimony for the benefit of the neighbourhood." 618 619
 LORD J. MANNERS  rose to move the Second Reading of the Pious and Charitable Bequests Bill, which, he remarked, was based upon the Report of the Select Committee appointed two years ago to inquire into the state of the law with respect to bequests for pious and charitable purposes. When first he brought this subject under the consideration of the House, he endeavoured to demonstrate the great public mischiefs which were likely to accrue from the continuance, and the great advantages which were likely to be realized by the repeal of the Statute 9th Geo. II., cap. 36. Nothing had occurred since that time to alter his views upon the subject. On the contrary, each succeeding year, as it increased his experience, produced fresh evidence in favour of the opinions which he had long held in reference to this matter. The State had refused to provide for the
 579 bonâ fide l., l., 580 "'The largest charitable bequests I have ever known,' said Mr. Grove, addressing the Manchester Law Association, in 1845, 'entirely failed, owing to the solicitor who made the will neglecting to inform the testator that they could not be satisfied out of moneys on mortgage, of which his personal property wholly consisted.'" quoad quoad 581 mens sano in corpore sano. "That the whole argument derived from the incapacity of land in mortmain to sustain the feudal, civil, and military incidents obligatory on the land, has for two hundred years ceased to have force, or even meaning, as applied to existing tenures". 582 583 requiescant in pace.
 MR. HAWES  said, when a Bill of so
 615 in toto;
 MR. HAWES  said, that if this Bill were to be passed, he should like to have a distinct understanding that some other measure should be introduced in the course of the present Session of Parliament, for the purpose of removing the multitudinous defects which existed in the Metropolitan Building Act of last year. He did not know a single eminent builder or surveyor who did not say that there was but one remedy for that mischievous Bill, namely, the repeal of it altogether. Every one acquainted with its working said that it was almost impossible to amend it. He had been informed of many of the decisions of the official referees, all of them exhibiting the vexation, annoyance, and expense to which parties had been subjected. One was the case of an individual who wished to alter a pigeon house. A dispute arose between him and the district surveyors, and an appeal was made to the official referees, who gave a solemn decision as to whether the question came within the Act. All those cases which were left to the official referees could only be decided upon the payment of very large fees, and those fees must be paid by the appellants, whether the decision were in their favour or not. For every hearing by one official referee and registrar, the charge was a guinea and a half; and by two official referees and a registrar, two guineas. For every final award, according to the decision of the official referees, the charges ranged from one guinea to twenty-one guineas. [Sir J. GRAHAM: They were
 621
 MR. CHARLES BULLER  said, long as this discussion had been protracted, he would make no apology to the House for trespassing for some minutes on their attention in reference to the subject before them, not only because his name appeared on the back of the Bill, but also because, since the first introduction of this subject to the House, he had always supported the noble Lord upon it, and because, almost without exception, his hon. Friends on that (the Opposition) side of the House had given no support to this Bill. He wished, therefore, to state the reasons which had urged him to give his most cordial support to the proposal of the noble Lord. He would not follow the arguments either of the hon. Member for the University of Oxford, or of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, or the speeches made by other hon. Members, with respect to the minute details of the Bill, as these were points which could best be discussed when the Bill got into Committee, which he did not despair of seeing. That to which he called the attention of the House more directly was the principles of the Bill, and the objects which it had in view. He might say generally that the object of the Bill was to effect a uniformity of the law with respect to real and personal property. That, he should say, was an object which was in all instances desirable to effect to as great an extent as possible, in order that the holders of different kinds of property might not be confused by the conflicting operation of the laws made for their regulation. In the matter at present before the House, he thought that a sufficient case had been made out from the evidence to show that it would be, at any rate, desirable to put the law with regard to real and to personal property upon the same footing; and for this obvious reason, that the distinctions made by the law between real and personal property were not always understood by the lawyers themselves, and were most undoubtedly not understood by the public generally. In proof of this fact, he need only observe, that many instances had occurred in which property, treated as personal property, had been found afterwards to come under the restrictions applying to real property. Now, that was an evil which they had a right to remedy. He would say that in England the law should
 606 l. 607 l. 608 609 610
 MR. T. D'EYNCOURT  had never heard a measure more generally condemned than the Bill of last Session, and there was no doubt that it had occasioned very considerable inconvenience, vexation, and expense.
 MR. COLQUHOUN  said, the noble Lord who had just sat down had referred to the Church Endowment Bill, which provided for the appropriation of a limited amount of land — [Sir J. GRAHAM: A limited amount of acreage]—to the endowment of churches, and had rested on that ground in some measure his support of the present Bill. Now there was the greatest difference between granting small sums or allowing the appropriation of a limited acreage for the endowment of churches and school-houses, and enabling persons to obtain from those who were influenced by charitable feelings large grants of landed property, which, instead of being available for the commercial interests of the country, would be placed under permanent ecclesiastical control. Were they prepared to afford facilities to ecclesiastical or lay bodies for obtaining, by the means which had been referred to by the Attorney General—by taking advantage of the weakness of a man on his death-bed, whose powers of mind and body were impaired, and who was in those circumstances in which it was most desirable to guard against the improper disposal of property—grants of large tracts of soil, the value of which could only be maintained by perseverance in an improved system of cultivation? On these grounds, although fully appreciating the motives which had induced his noble Friend to bring forward this measure, he felt it his duty to oppose the Bill.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that at the time the Bill of last year was before the House, he marvelled very much that Members representing the metropolitan districts suffered it to pass; for no one who attended to the Bill, or rather the parts of the Bill, and the extraordinary alterations that took place in them, could fail to be convinced that the person who framed the Bill had no uniform system in view, and could have little sound information upon the subject. He had always felt confident that the Bill would not work well, and that it would inflict the greatest inconvenience and annoyance upon every body who was so unfortunate as to live within the range of its operation. For his part, he thought the best plan was to repeal the Bill and begin again.
 MR. FORSTER  did not see the necessity of appointing a new referee, if the Bill were to be merely temporary in its duration.
 622
 MR. P. BORTHWICK  denied that all the lands in Scotland which were under the dominion of the present law relating to bequests, were in an unimproved condition. There, for instance, was the land adjacent to George Heriot's hospital, near Edinburgh, which every hon. Member who had seen it must admit was in a high state of cultivation. In fact, where such land was turnip sowed, it arose from other causes. He thought every argument that had been advanced, and every speech that had been delivered against and in support of the present Motion, demonstrated the propriety of going into Committee on this Bill. The right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham), and the hon. and learned Gentlemen the Attorney and Solicitor Generals, had admitted there were evils which required correction. The faults noticed in the Bill, which were, after all, but trifling, would be remedied in
 617
 MR. PHILIP HOWARD  should give to the second reading of the Bill his support, without pledging himself, however, to its details. There was one clause of the existing Act which had been alluded to by his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary, which perhaps would require grave and mature consideration before it was altered, and that was the clause restricting the grant of property for charitable purposes unless the grant should have been made a year previous to the death of the testator. He (Mr. Howard) thought, taking it all in all, it was desirable that a due regard should be had to the interests of heirs and the public by restraining the testator from granting large sums of money during a time when he was in a feeble state of health. Whether the time should be a year or half a year was a subject for consideration; but he thought the principle of that law was sound, and that it would be impolitic to deviate from it. With this qualification, he was disposed to give the fullest praise to the measure. It was to avoid legal chicanery, and to give to charity a due and legitimate channel, that the noble Lord had brought forward his Bill, and he had given to it the most mature consideration; and it came prefaced to the consideration of the House by the labours and investigation of a Committee, and he trusted that the principle at least of the Bill would receive the solemn sanction of the British House of Commons.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  could not agree with the observation of the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary, that the Act of George II. had worked well in this country. He could not agree with him, because he did not see that the Act had effected the great moral purpose of giving to the religious and charitable institutions of the country a full and large share of the superfluity of the wealth of the country, nor on the other hand that it had, by any simple or distinct mode of procedure, prevented a great amount of chicanery or legal embarrassment. The right
 588 589
 SIR G. GREY  would not have thought it necessary to trouble the House with any remarks, concurring as he did with the right hon. Baronet in opposition to the present Bill, had he not been a member of the Committee on the Law of Mortmain to which allusion had been made. He wished to state how far he was responsible for the Report. When that Committee was appointed it was late in the Session; and during the time that he (Sir G. Grey) was in town and attending the House, he had attended the meetings of the Committee, He had heard a great mass of evidence adduced by the noble Lord before the Committee; but he was compelled to leave town before the termination of the Session, and the Report of the Committee was
 590 "What in your opinion would be the practical effect of a repeal or alteration of the 9th George II.?" "That would depend on the extent of the alteration or repeal. If it were absolutely repealed, I think the practical effect would be that a great deal of land would be conveyed imprudently to charitable uses, and that a good deal of mischief which the Statute of Mortmain aimed at would be the consequence; but I think an alteration, if prudently made, so as to give sufficient liberty and a limited extent for the free settlement of such charitable estates as I have mentioned, would be of very considerable benefit; by benefit I mean not merely promoting the particular
 591 "I much doubt whether it would be wise to relax this Statute on the subject of wills. It appears to me that it might give a very undesirable opportunity to ecclesiastics and other persons, of whatsoever denomination they might be, to surround the death-bed with a very improper importunity, producing the evils which this Act sought to remedy."
 SIR J. GRAHAM : I can assure the House that I am disposed to meet the proposition of the noble Lord with all the respect that is due to the attention which he has bestowed upon the subject, to the benevolent motives which have actuated him in bringing it forward, and to the opinion of the Committee which gave its sanction to this measure. Sir, the subject having been brought before that Committee with the consent of the Government, I have had time to reconsider the opinion I formerly expressed; and I am bound to state, that that reconsideration has not led me to the conclusion that I can give my support to this measure. It is not my intention, even if I were able, to enter into those more learned considerations in connexion with this subject with which the noble Lord has invested it; I consider it quite sufficient for me to take my stand on the Act of George II., which, for upwards of a century, has fixed and regulated the law on this subject. On the face of the preamble of that Act, it appears that past experience had shown the necessity of special intervention. The words of the preamble are short, but impressive. They say—
 "Whereas gifts or alienations of lands, tenements, or hereditaments in mortmain, are prohibited or restrained by Magna Charta and divers other wholesome laws, as prejudicial to and against the common utility; nevertheless, this public mischief has of late greatly increased by many large and improvident
 584 de novo, l. l. 585 in extremis primâ facie c'y près, 586 extra commercium; 587
 SIR J. GRAHAM  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the 7th and 8th of Victoria, c. 84, for regulating the construction and use of buildings in the metropolis and its neighbourhood, by authorizing the appointment of a third referee. The object of this appointment was to prevent the inconvenience arising from a difference of opinion among the referees; for, if there were only two, and they happened to be divided in opinion, there was no possibility of arriving at a decision. This addition to the number of the referees would not increase the expense; because one of the present referees, each of whom received 1,000 l. l.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  was extremely sorry that the measure which received the sanction of the Legislature last year should have met with such condemnation; but it should be borne in mind, that in endeavouring to amend the old Act, the Government yielded to the wish of the public, and also, he believed, to the wish of that House. The House would remember that at that period he had a great variety of measures to attend to, and that a subdivision of labour was in consequence rendered necessary. The result was, that this particular matter was undertaken by the Commissioners of Woods and Forests; and his noble Friend directed his most earnest attention to the preparation of the measure. To the best of his judgment he brought it forward as an amended and useful Bill. It underwent a great deal of discussion in that House; and the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Hawes), with his usual assiduity, applied himself to that discussion. He advanced many objections to details; and for the purpose of obviating these, his noble Friend qualified the Bill as far as he possibly could, with the hope that it would work well. He was bound
 623 l. l. l.
 SIR J. HANMER  was surprised at many of the statements of the right hon. Gentleman the Solicitor General. He would not pledge himself to an unqualified assent to all the provisions of the Bill, but would vote for its going into Committee. He did not think landed and personal property ought to stand on the same footing. He would not give full rein to the desire of his noble Friend, but at the same time thought there would be no danger whatever in giving a certain defined and limited application to his Bill. He had great objection
 614
 SIR R. INGLIS : I said she had been
 598
 SIR R. H. INGLIS , while he admitted that his noble Friend who had just sat down, had supported with great zeal and ability this Bill to which his own name was attached, thought his noble Friend did not seem to comprehend the extent to which the measure would go. His noble Friend said that the provisions of the Bill would not extend to Scotland, to Ireland, or the Colonies. Now, to exclude Scotland, and Ireland, and the Colonies from the operation of this Bill, it ought to contain a clause of exception, such as was invariably inserted in all Bills intended to have a special and
 594 l. 595 596 prestige 597
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  wished this bill to go into Committee, though he would not pledge himself to all its details. He considered that, in the present day, instead of too much money being appropriated to charitable purposes, persons were rather disposed to expend money on their own personal comfort and that of their families. He wished to state, not with any view of affording another instance of inconsistency on the part of the right hon. Home Secretary, for that was superfluous, that the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham), when the noble Lord (Lord J. Manners) brought forward a similar measure to the present, last year, expressed his opinion that such a measure ought not to be confined to the Established Church, but ought to extend generally to all denominations. Now, one of the very next measures brought forward with the sanction of Ministers, was the Church Endowment Bill, in which there was a direct interference with the law of mortmain. How was it, he would ask, that the right hon. Baronet, within a few days after making the declaration to which he had referred, could sanction a measure which interfered with the Statutes of mortmain in favour of the Established Church only? He (Lord Ebrington) considered, that if such an interference was sanctioned, the same privilege which had been accorded to the Established Church, ought to be extended to the Roman Catholics and Dissenters.
 616
 VISCOUNT POLLINGTON  said, he trusted that in justice to Mr. Parker this inquiry would be allowed to proceed.
 GENERAL JOHNSON  said, he could not understand on what ground the right hon. Baronet refused the inquiry. All the parties concerned prayed for an inquiry; and yet, without any reason assigned, inquiry was to be refused. True, the right hon. Baronet had not stated that he would refuse inquiry after the Papers had been produced; and if he would give his word that the inquiry would be granted after the Papers had been laid on the Table, the hon. Member for Andover would, perhaps, consent to withdraw his Motion. He was sure the country would, if this inquiry were not granted, think, and with reason, there was something exceedingly black to induce its refusal.
 MR. MILES  said, he had taken a considerable share in the passing of the Poor Law, but held, at the same time, that if any thing wrong took place under its administration, it would be the duty of Parliament to make searching inquiry; and unless searching inquiry were made into the case now before the House, see what a position the poor must be placed in. Great injustice had been done by somebody in the first instance to the poor resident in the Andover Union; and in the next place something mysterious had transpired between Mr. Parker and the Commissioners relative to that Union. Parliament ought to know the facts in both these cases. Mr. Parker had a right to have his conduct thoroughly sifted; and he (Mr. Miles) contended that the House could not enter upon the general inquiry relative to the Andover Union without taking Mr. Parker's case into consideration at the same time.
 MR. COWPER  rose to move for copies of despatches received by the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, containing information about the persecution inflicted
 678 679
 MR. COWPER  said, that after the statement of the right hon. Baronet he would withdraw his Motion; and he trusted, from the right hon. Baronet's statement, that there would be an investigation into the truth of the reports.
 MR. LAW  said, the right hon. Baronet deprecated inquiry because the Poor Law Commissioners were invested with arbitrary powers. Now he (Mr. Law) required the House of Commons to inquire into the conduct of those Commissioners who were so invested with arbitrary powers.
 THE SPEAKER  called the hon. Gentleman to order.
 THE SPEAKER  said, it was perfectly competent to the right hon. Baronet to move an Amendment without giving notice. Having immediately followed the hon. Member for Andover, the right hon. Baronet was perfectly free to move any Amendment, without reference to any priority of notice that might have been given by any other Member.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  supported inquiry, and taunted the Government for being yet wanting in its Members in that House. There was no Colonial Secretary, no Irish Secretary, no Attorney General for Ireland, no junior Lords of the Treasury yet. No constituency seemed willing to take them at any price. Every day, he believed, would show more and more the impudence, the treachery, and the hypocrisy of the Poor Law. He had tried to annihilate the Commissioners; he had tried to annihilate the Assistant Commissioners; and he had tried to annihilate the law itself. In this he might have failed, but he thought the present case was preliminary to that end.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, there had been few questions before the House upon which more general unanimity had been exhibited than upon this. The public thought there was some mystery in this case, and the expressions used by the right hon. Baronet to-night would not tend to dissipate that mystery. They would be inclined to think the Commissioners had made Mr. Parker a scapegoat for themselves. It was alleged that Mr. Parker had been requested to resign, not merely for indiscretion, but insubordination; and in those charges the public were deeply interested. The inquiry should be first into the allegations respecting the Andover Union; and the Motion of the hon. Member for Weymouth should be attached to it, so that the investigation might be made general.
 DR. BOWRING  should vote with the hon. and learned Member for Weymouth.
 676
 MR. FIELDEN  said, the debate appeared to him to have been carried on, as it were, in defence of the Commissioners. Inquiry ought to be made into the administration of the Poor Law in the Andover Union; but he asked for something more. He asked that a fair Committee should be appointed to carry on the inquiry, and not a one-sided one. Unless the right
 673
 MR. HUME  said, the right hon. Baronet had, from his last statement, rendered it absolutely necessary that the inquiry should be made. The right hon. Baronet stated that Mr. Parker had been guilty of other acts of insubordination; but the House had a right to know what these acts of insubordination were. The Legislature had authorized the appointment of Assistant Commissioners, and had given the appointment of these officers to the Poor Law Commissioners, It appeared now that the Commissioners were to have the power also of dismissing them, and that too on a mere allegation of insubordination. It was most important that the Assistant Commissioners should know what their duty was, and when they would be guilty of insubordination. He could not conceive how the Commissioners could have dismissed any man who for ten years had merited their support and approbation, without sufficient cause; and he would ask the right hon. Baronet, would he sanction the dismissal of a public officer who stood so high for his services in the Commission, without some recorded minute of the grounds on which that dismissal had been resolved upon? The necessity of informing the Assistant Commissioners of their duties, was one reason why this inquiry should be granted; but another reason was, that the public demanded the inquiry. The inquiry had been commenced, and the public had a right to be informed whether Mr. Parker or the Commissioners were in the right. The Government might now refuse the inquiry, but the House of Commons would, he felt satisfied, grant it. He therefore trusted the right hon. Baronet would not persevere in attempting to screen the Commissioners from inquiry, more especially
 671
 MR. BORTHWICK  said, if the details which the hon. Member for Andover had presented to the House to-night had been told of some distant or savage land into which civilization had never entered, and where Christianity was unknown, they might have regarded the statement as surcharged, that the picture was over-coloured, but, at the same time, that it was not in human imagination to invent details so horrible. They would have assumed that some foundation must exist for such a representation, and the spirit of English benevolence would have been roused to meet the evil. Public meetings would have been held, subscriptions would have been loyally entered into, missionaries would have been sent forth to reclaim, if not within the pale of Christianity, at least within the pale of humanity, persons who were suffering such wretched privations. Would they then pause in the same good work, because the sufferers were their own fellow countrymen, and the remedy was in their own hands, and could be applied without trouble? The sufferers were Englishmen; the tyranny under which they suffered was a law enacted by that House. On the question of reporting a private conversation he did not wish to enter. Had he been in Mr. Parker's position, he would on no account have been induced to lend himself to the
 670
 MR. P. HOWARD  reminded the House of an occasion on which his hon. Friend below him (Mr. T. Duncombe) had successfully appealed to their sympathies; he alluded to the case of his noble Friend Prince Polignac; and yet the French nation and Government, whose sensitiveness was proverbial, far from resenting our interference,
 684
 MR. ETWALL  regretted that he could not, in deference to the wishes of many hon. Members of that House, postpone his Motion; but he felt that it was one which affected the industrious classes of Andover. He was sure there was but one opinion in that House as to the way in which the Poor Law should be administered—that it should be done with fairness, impartiality, and kindness to the poor, and that those who were the inmates of the Union workhouse should be treated with kindness and indulgence. But that principle had not been acted upon in the case of the Andover
 626 "The Commissioners do not doubt that for the sake of arriving at the truth, you will take care the inquiry is complete and full, and that every opportunity for substantiating any well-grounded complaint is afforded to the inmates." "Sir Edmund appeared to me to be unusually excited by what he had read in the  Times, 627 "When I arrived at the office, I was informed that Mr. Austin, the Assistant Commissioner now in charge of the district comprehending the city of Oxford, was in the office, and accordingly I sought him, and saw him in the presence of Mr. Coode, the Assistant Secretary, and Mr. Sutton. I immediately told him that the object of my seeking him was to ascertain whether he had ever heard anything affecting Mr. Price's character. Mr. Austin replied, 'Why, let me see; no, I do not think I have. Yes, I think there was something; there was some inquiry respecting him, wasn't there?' I replied, 'that I had never heard anything against his character;' and, turning to Mr. Sutton, requested him to get me the papers relating to such inquiry. Mr. Sutton left us to comply with my desire; and after some time he returned and informed me that another clerk had been searching for papers affecting Mr. Price's character, and that no such papers were in existence. Having received this reply, I went to the Commissioners, with whom I found Mr. Austin, who had left me shortly after Mr. Sutton went to look for the papers affecting Mr. Price, when, for the first time in my life, I heard from Mr. Austin, that in July and August, 1844, he had investigated some charges against Mr. Price, whilst master at Oxford; that Mr. Price having resigned his office, he (Mr. Austin) had not sent the papers to the Commissioners; and that he then attended with the papers, having received a note from Mr. Lewis, requesting him to bring them with him." 628 "Mr. Mundy stated, upon oath; that, accompanied by two guardians and medical men, he examined ten paupers; all, with the exception of two, admitted that they were constantly in the habit of eating the marrow and gristle from the
 629 "When a beef bone, or chine bone, was turned out of the heap, there was a scramble for it, described like a parcel of dogs, and the man who got it was obliged to run away and hide it until he had an opportunity of eating the marrow. One man fetched two bones, which he had eaten that very morning in wet ashes; a portion of muscle very offensive was adhering to the ends of the bone. The men said that it was a considerable time before they could make up their minds to do so, but after they had once taken to it they preferred that description of labour to any other, because they could get bones to pick." 630 631 632 The Times The Times. 633 d. 634 635 s., s. d. s.; d. d., 636 l. l. l. l. s. d. s. s. 637 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the administration of the Poor Laws in the Andover Union, and into the management of the Union Workhouse."
 MR. T. S. DUNCOMBE  said, that when the Emperor of Russia was in this country, the Parliament agreed to an Address to Her Majesty, expressing their gratification that the Emperor of Russia had come to this country, at great personal inconvenience, to visit Her Majesty, and expressing a hope that the opportunity would be taken to improve the amicable relations between Russia and this country. The people of England hoped that they should, be able to ascertain whether these atrocities had taken place or not. He was sorry to find that the case of the Andover Union had been mixed up with the atrocities committed upon the nuns at Minsk. The English Parliament had instituted inquiries into the state of the Andover Union; and he hoped that they would hear of the Emperor of Russia instituting inquiries into the atrocities perpetrated upon the nuns of Minsk. He trusted that the House would hear that there was not the slightest foundation for the statements which had appeared in the public organs of intelligence, instead of there being "exaggeration," as the right hon. Baronet called it, in these statements: and he hoped that on a future day the right hon. Baronet would be in a position to give them more authentic information on the subject than it was now in his power to afford.
 MR. T. S. DUNCOMBE  said, he would ask the right hon. Baronet whether he thought, after what he had just stated, either the House, or his hon. Friend the Member for Andover, or the public, would be satisfied unless an inquiry were instituted. The right hon. Baronet proposed now to lay on the Table certain Returns connected with the administration of the Andover Union workhouse, together with copies of Mr. Parker's Report, and of the evidence taken by him, and also copies of the inquiry into the conduct of Mr. M'Dougal, as communicated by the Poor Law Commissioners; but would the right hon. Baronet recollect that the notice of his hon. Friend the Member for Andover had been on the books for the last six weeks? and, however satisfactory it might have been for the right hon. Baronet to have offered the production of these Papers when the subject was first mentioned, it was clear that the public would not be now satisfied unless the inquiry were instituted. A notice of Motion had also been given by his hon. Friend the Member for Weymouth (Mr. Christie), with regard to the treatment of Mr. Parker. It appeared that Mr. Parker considered himself an ill-used man. He (Mr. Duncombe) had read the pamphlet published by that gentleman; and in his opinion Mr. Parker had made out a very good case. The right hon. Baronet said that when the House read the Papers which he offered to produce, they would be satisfied that the Poor Law Commissioners were unimpeachable in their conduct in this matter—that they would be found to be above all suspicion. Now, that was what the House wanted to find out by this inquiry. They wanted to know the facts of the case; and how was that to be done, except by instituting the inquiry? When the question had been first mooted by his hon. Colleague the Member for Finsbury, Mr. Parker was appointed to go down and inquire into the allegation of the petitioners. Nothing could be fairer than the conduct of the Government in this particular; but somehow or other the investigation then entered upon had terminated most abruptly. Mr. Parker seemed to him to be the most unfortunate man that ever existed; for he would appear to have given no satisfaction to any party. In his (Mr. Duncombe's) opinion he had committed a great mistake in resigning his office, as he ought to have
 669
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that in all these cases there could be no doubt that the Poor Law Commissioners were responsible to the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham), and the right hon. Baronet was responsible to that House and the country.
 MR. M. GIBSON  said, that however desirable it might be to abstain from all interference in the internal affairs of foreign countries, such had undoubtedly not been the policy of Great Britain in reference to the slave trade.
 MR. WAKLEY  sincerely hoped the decision of the House would be unanimous. The feeling of the House universally was in favour of inquiry, not into a portion of the case only, but into the whole of it. If the Commissioners did possess that arbitrary and undefined power which the right hon. Baronet had described, in Heaven's name let the House know it. If not, let the inquiry be granted, not only for the sake of the Commissioners, but for the sake of the poor. The right hon. Gentleman had been found "squeezable" on former occasions: the pressure was still upon him; and he (Mr. Wakley) advised him to yield this point whilst he could with something like a good grace. He wished to say that his information had not been derived from Mr. Westlake, the medical officer of the Union. The guardians of the Union had endeavoured to eject that gentleman from his office; and, in his opinion, the right hon. Gentleman was bound to make inquiry into the conduct of that gentleman.
 MR. WAKLEY  believed he was in a position to speak both on the original Motion and on the Amendment. He thought it extremely desirable that the House should be in possession of the Papers referred to; and it appeared to him that if there was no objection, the best way of dealing with the subject under discussion
 642 643 644 645
 MR. WYSE  seconded the Motion, and said that the statement which was the subject of the hon. Member's Motion, had excited considerable attention, not only in Germany and other countries, but in Russia. A statement appeared in the  Frankfort Journal 680
 MR. CHRISTIE  said, he would move, as an Amendment, the addition of the following words to the Motion of the hon. Member for Andover:—
 "And into the conduct of the Poor Law Commissioners, and their late Assistant Commissioner, Mr. Parker, in reference to the two investigations held at Andover, and into all the circumstances under which the Poor Law Commissioners called upon Mr. Parker to resign his Assistant Commissionership." 675
 MR. CHRISTIE  believed that the right hon. Gentleman had, on a previous occasion, regarded and spoken of the subject under discussion in a very different light, and had not even dreamed of terming it a mere "workhouse squabble." The special instructions sent by the Commissioners to Mr. Parker contained an acknowledgment
 646 647 "Amongst the bones supplied to the workhouse by the bone-gatherers, many are fresh from the kitchens of the gentry; and the inmates, as well as persons who have been inmates, acknowledge having picked out such fresh bones, and eaten the marrow from them. It also appears that when there has been meat left on the bones, some of the inmates have partaken of it. All the witnesses, excepting Green, state that the meat was never eaten unless it was fresh and good; but Green declares that Reeves and Eaton, two inmates, partook of horseflesh found on bones purchased from the dog-kennel, and he avows that he has frequently eaten stale and stinking meat from beef and mutton bones. The man Reeves, whose intellects were of the lowest order, died some time since; and Eaton is an idiot of dirty habits and depraved appetite; the character of his appetite is so well known that care is taken to prevent him from gaining access to the bone store and from going to the hog-tub. It is due to the workhouse officers to observe, that immediately it was mentioned to them that horseflesh had been eaten by one of the inmates, the statement was inquired into by the medical officer, and its truth denied by Reeves, the inmate said to have eaten it." 648 "After adverting to the facts disclosed in the depositions, Sir James observed, 'I have stated in the House of Commons that the Commissioners cannot prevent the boards of guardians from employing the inmates of workhouses at this hone-crushing; I was right in saying so, was I not?'
 MR. FERRAND  submitted that it was not competent to the right hon. Baronet to move such an Amendment. He had himself given notice of an Amendment at the sitting of the House, and he therefore claimed priority to the right hon. Baronet.
 MR. FERRAND  most sincerely rejoiced that this quarrel had taken place between the Poor Law Commissioners and Mr. Parker, and that he had written a pamphlet informing them of all the circumstances that had occurred. All he (Mr. Ferrand) wished was, that Mr. Mott had followed his example, and he had no doubt they would have learned from that exposure how it was the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) became possessed of that written document which he drew from his red box. He agreed with the right hon. Baronet in stating that he had been rather ill used that night by the hon. Member for Weymouth (Mr. Christie), who in common justice ought to have given him notice that he intended to use the memorandum to which he called attention. But if he (Mr. Ferrand) were not very much mistaken, when that foul conspiracy was entered into to crush him (Mr. Ferrand), the right hon. Baronet declared in that House that he never had any communication with the Poor Law Commissioners or their assistants. However, it appeared that he held a communication with them at Somerset-house, and that a speech was concocted, which was delivered in the House. He (Mr. Ferrand) thought the day had arrived when the right hon. Baronet, in common justice, ought to inform the House how it was that that written document came into his hands, and from whom he had received it; for, from the hour when he used it
 659 "That in consequence of what had taken place on the subject of rag mills, he had expressed a strong opinion against their use to the Commissioners, who had communicated that opinion to all the Unions, and that such mills should not be used again." 660 661 662 663
 MR. FERRAND  begged pardon for having made use of an expression that he ought not to use. He knew what his opinion should be of the right hon. Baronet and that Resolution. He could say, " Mens sibi conscia recti. 665
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  urged the necessity of a full and complete inquiry. The people would feel there was no justice in the administration of the Poor Law if it were refused—that they were left to the mercy of guardians and Commissioners, with no court to appeal to for redress. Justice, humanity, and sound policy demanded this investigation; and if the Government wished the Poor Law to be sustained, they would not persist in refusing it.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  said, that if the Committee was appointed, he quite agreed with the hon. Member that an inquiry should also take place into the proceedings of the Keighley Union. If the information which he had received was correct, there was something wrong in Somerset-house; and the movement of the straw indicated that there would be some further resignations in that quarter. He knew that Mr. Parker was a most excellent officer of the Poor Law Commissioners; and he thought it only an act of justice to say so. The Commissioners had sent him down to his neighbourhood to institute an inquiry,
 666 667
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he could have wished that the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford had recollected what he (Sir James Graham) had stated when he had last addressed the House. He had been asked by many hon. Members whether the Poor Law Commissioners complained of anything except indiscretion on the part of Mr. Parker; and he had already stated to the House in the name of the Poor Law Commissioners, that they complained not only of indiscretion on the part of that gentleman, but also
 668
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : The hon. and learned Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Aglionby) only does me justice when he says that at all times I am not only willing but anxious to yield to any expression of the feelings and opinions of this House. I mean to do so upon this occasion, but—[ Cheers. 674
 SIR J. GRAHAM : Although not quite regular, I beg to say a few words with respect to that part of the speech of the hon. Member for Weymouth which more particularly relates personally to myself—I allude to that part of his statement with reference to Mr. Parker. It is not my intention to transgress the rules of the House from the circumstances in which I have been placed, or to make an attack upon Mr. Parker in his absence. Suffice it for me to say, that I shall confine myself to that part of the case in which the hon. and learned Member made use of a harsh term with respect to myself, in reference to the statement made by me in this House in answer to a question put to me by the hon. Member for Finsbury. I answered that question upon the last day of the last Session; and, if I mistake not, my conversation with Mr. Parker was either the day or two days before the last of the Session. It is quite true that I had received a written Report made by Mr. Parker, which I have now moved for; but I do not hesitate to tell the hon. and learned Member that I do not think it was for the public good that I should have produced that document at that time. The hon. and learned Gentleman has produced to-night, a minute purporting to have been taken at the time of a conversation held by me officially with a public servant, and says that in his opinion Mr. Parker has not transgressed the bounds of duty in introducing to-night, through his hands, a memorandum of a conversation held by the Secretary of State with an Assistant Poor Law Commissioner in his capacity of a public servant. It is for the House and the public to determine between the hon. Gentleman and me, whether any such breach of propriety has been committed. Now, I hold it to be admitted that I am quite incapable of misrepresenting any conversation held by me; and I am sure it will be very bad for those who have to discharge public duties in this country, when Gentlemen cannot meet upon that ground; but for any one to take a minute of any such conversation, and above all, having taken such minute, without any
 657 658
 SIR J. GRAHAM : I confess, Sir, I cannot help thinking that it is melancholy, at the present juncture, and in the existing state of public affairs, so much of the precious time of this House should have been consumed in a matter which after all is only, I was about to call it, a workhouse squabble in the south of England. But as the hon. Gentleman, notwithstanding the appeal made to him, has thought it right to occupy so much time, by going into the whole facts of the case, it will be my duty very shortly to follow him in reference to some of the topics he has dwelt upon at so much length. And, first, I must observe that I am not here to vindicate the management of the Andover board of guardians, or their conduct with reference to the greater portion of the transactions of which he speaks. With reference, however, to the practices which were alleged to prevail in the Andover Union, it will be recollected that the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley) first stated a transaction which produced the deepest impression on the feelings of the House, with respect to the employment of the paupers in that Union, in the crushing of bones. I need not remind the House, that on several antecedent occasions, I had in my place expressed the strongest opinion opposed to this particular mode of employment in workhouses. More than once I was called on to state my opinion on this point by the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Brighton (Captain Pechell), and repeatedly I have declared I regretted, that in so many Unions throughout the south of England, this particular mode of employment
 638 639 640 641 "To leave out from the word 'That' to the end of the Question, in order to add the words—'there be laid before this House, a Copy of Mr. Parker's Report, and of the Evidence taken by him with reference to the crashing of bones in the Andover Union Workhouse, together with a Copy of all Evidence taken on the inquiry into the conduct of Mr. M'Dougall, and a Copy of all Correspondence between the Poor Law Commissioners and the Board of Guardians of the Andover Union or their Officers, from the 1st day of September 1845 to the 1st day of March 1846, instead thereof."
 MR. JERVIS  said, feeling very deeply on this subject, affecting as it did a member of his profession, and believing that the general impression was that Mr. Parker had not been well treated by the Commissioners, he wished to offer a few remarks before the debate closed. He thought the matter had assumed a far more important character from what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet. Mr. Parker had been dismissed. [Sir JAMES GRAHAM: Had resigned.] Or rather had been induced to resign in consequence of being guilty of what were called acts of indiscretion. It was of the greatest importance that the Assistant Commissioners should have their duties defined, and should know what would be considered indiscretion and insubordination on their part. If the House expected that gentlemen of honour and of competency should discharge the duties of their office, it could not be supposed that they would act on all occasions on the mere dictates of men not more respectable or more honourable than themselves. If Mr. Parker had been indiscreet before this inquiry, why was he appointed to it? and if his indiscretion was only shown in the progress of that inquiry, what objection could there be to have the fact made known? Was it in allowing an adjournment of the cass on the application of the master, who, having serious charges brought against him, required time to prepare his defence? That surely was not indiscreet. He should confess that he did not know what was meant by the term "refractory." He was induced to think that there must have been some instructions from the Commissioners to Mr. Parker, which had not been made public, and which he, perhaps, felt himself unable to obey. The right hon. Baronet would forgive him for saying that the profession was no unimportant body in this matter; and neither it nor the public—a still more important body—would feel satisfied at the vague assertion of Mr. Parker having been refractory, without some inquiry being instituted into the matter. It would not be just towards the guardians, towards the Commissioners, towards the master or the medical officer, and it would not be just towards Mr. Parker, and still
 672
 MR. JERVIS  begged to explain. Notwithstanding what had been said, it was his intention to vote against the Amendment; and he spoke to a certain extent the opinions of the profession, when he said they were satisfied that the conduct of Mr. Parker could be more properly investigated by a separate Committee, than it would if mixed up with the general inquiry. He (Mr. Jervis) was in some measure led to the conclusion, because he was afraid that this measure was to be carried from no conviction of the honesty or integrity of Mr. Parker's case, but from some other feeling in the breasts of the compact body. He was quite satisfied Mr. Parker's conduct would stand more fairly if investigated by a Committee to be appointed after the Committee moved for by the hon. Member for Andover. It was far better to separate the two issues; and on this ground, whether right or wrong, he should vote against the Amendment of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Christie).
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  wished to make a few observations on the apparent hardship of the case of Mr. Parker. He did not defend the indiscretion of that gentleman in recommending a person to the board of guardians at Andover to be master of the workhouse whose conduct was not sufficiently known to him. But admitting this and other indiscretions, he could not help feeling that Mr. Parker had been punished more severely than he ought to have been. He had not the honour of Mr. Parker's acquaintance; he did not even know him by sight; but he had read the pamphlet and petition of that gentleman, and from them he learnt that Mr. Parker was induced to abandon an honourable profession, in which he had a fair chance of rising, to accept the office in question, and that for a mere act of indiscretion it appeared that all his prospects in life were likely to be blighted. He might be told that Her Majesty's Government neither appointed nor removed Mr. Parker, but that it was the Act of the Poor Law Commissioners. He had never either in or out of the House said one word against the Poor Law Commissioners, as he believed that they wished to exercise a sound discretion in the discharge of the duties intrusted to them; but still they were men, and liable to err, and he did not believe that the Poor Law Commissioners were any more infallible than Her Majesty's Ministers. He hoped that it was not yet too late to replace Mr. Parker. Without entering into the merits of the case of the Andover Union, much less following the hon. Members who had brought them into Yorkshire and Sussex, he would confine himself to that point alone, and would respectfully submit that the claims of Mr. Parker ought not to be lost sight of or passed over.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I am not enabled to communicate to the House any des-patches which could throw light upon the painful subject to which the Motion of the hon. Gentleman refers. Her Majesty's Government has not received any report or despatch from the Representative of this country at the Court of St. Petersburgh, and I am, therefore, without any authentic information upon the subject. The only communication having reference to this statement of which we are in possession, is a communication from the British Consul at Warsaw, who is a most respectable and able, gentleman; and he states that, having seen reports in the French newspapers of barbarities (for I can apply no other term) said to have been committed in Poland upon a community of nuns, he thought it his duty to write to the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, to say that he had not been able to ascertain that any such occurrence had taken place in Poland; and he added that it was his confident belief that
 681 682
 SIR R. PEEL  repeated that it was the opinion of our Consul at Warsaw that the report was unfounded, or grossly exaggerated; and that he understood it was the intention of the Emperor to cause an investigation to be made into the truth of the report.
 COLONEL WOOD  said, that he had not as yet taken any part in these long-protracted debates, and he would now trespass for a short time on the House. He was sure that all the great interests of the country, and particularly the agricultural interest, were suffering severely from the great delay that was taking place in adopting the measure of the right hon. Baronet. The whole corn trade was completely paralysed. There was not a farmer who was not waiting to see how this proposal of the right hon Baronet would be disposed of. Who were the parties connected with the agricultural interests who would most suffer from this delay? It was the small tenant-farmers about whom the hon. Gentleman professed to be so much interested. The large tenant-farmers might perhaps be able
 719 s. s. 720 s.,
 MR. STAFFORD O'BRIEN  said, that his gallant Friend had at the commencement of his speech charged him and his Friends with causing great and reprehensible delay by these debates; but in the latter part he challenged them to enter into a discussion with him upon all the Corn Laws which had been passed since 1815. There was, he thought, as much discrepancy between these statements as when his gallant Friend had at one part of his speech said that the measure of the right hon. Baronet would raise the price of wheat, and in another that it would make no difference at all. The right hon. Baronet had said that the effect of the measure would be to raise the price of wheat 1 s. s. s. s. 722 723
 MR. S. O'BRIEN  was sorry to find that the hon. Member for Sheffield had so little confidence in the Members of his (Mr. O'Brien's) side of the House, but he was happy to observe from the manner of the hon. Gentleman, that his confidence in himself was not at all diminished; and he desired further to remark, that when he (Mr. O'Brien) should enter into a statement of his reasons for opposing the measure, it would be for the gratification of those persons who had a better right to question him upon the subject than the hon. Gentleman.
 COLONEL WOOD  said, he had been charged with deceiving or deserting his constituents. Now he believed that his views were in accordance with the opinions of the majority of his constituents. He thought he knew as much of his constituents as any one; and he declared his belief that from the Lord Lieutenant downwards to the tenant-farmer the majority of them concurred with him on this question.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  merely wished to explain that he had not suggested the opening of the ports by an Order in Council, but by a short Bill, to which he believed no one would have raised any objection. As to the introduction of maize, he had recommended not that it should be a separate measure, but that instead of
 725
 SIR J. TYRRELL  could not help saving that he had heard the observations of the hon. and gallant Member for Brecon (Colonel Wood) with extreme astonishment—inasmuch as the hon. and gallant Gentleman had hitherto been regarded as the very Nestor of Protection. Especially was it a subject of surprise to him that, the hon. and gallant Member should be in a state of such excessive ignorance as to the opinions and feelings of his constituents upon this question, because, a requisition was already in a state of very considerable progress calling on the hon. and gallant Member to resign his seat—a requisition which he hoped the hon. and gallant Member, on account of the utter discordance between his opinions on the subject and those of his constituents, would be impelled, by his own high sense of honour, to accede to by resigning his seat as requested, particularly as the requisition was signed by large numbers not, only of the gentlemen of property, but, of the class referred to as so much the object of solicitude by the friends of this measure,  i. e. 726
 MR. CURTIS  said, seeing the hon. Member for Sunderland in his place, he wished to set him right as to a statement the hon. Member had made the other night.
 MR. CURTIS : Well, then, Sir, I will just state, it has been said that the wages paid to agricultural labourers in Sussex are only 8 s. s., s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s.; s.;
 MR. ACLAND  would not enter into the question, but he wished to say that he was one of those who had been exposed to considerable odium for refusing to pledge himself to a course which was most impolitic. If they were going to suffer they had to thank those who had made unreasonable demands; and he had refused to pledge himself to the unreasonable proposition of not being content with less protection than they then possessed. He had not given his vote the other night without much consideration of the course he was taking.
 MR. STAFFORD O'BRIEN  would second the request to his hon. Friend the Member for Pontefract not to divide the House on this Amendment. His hon. Friend the Member for Somersetshire had said that all who voted against the proposition of the Government had pledged themselves to maintain the existing Corn Laws. Now, he thought he should speak for himself; and he begged to say that he expressed no opinion of the kind on that subject. He found a proposition of the Government before the House on this subject—he felt it his duty to oppose that proposition—and he should do so without stating what were the particular views he entertained on the maintenance or surrender of protection. He had seen enough of the process of  Hansardizing Hansardee,
 VISCOUNT POLLINGTON  said, that as the right hon. Baronet had invited the hon. and gallant Colonel the Member for the city of Lincoln to accept the Chiltern Hundreds, that he might afford an opportunity of a contest on the part of Lord Lincoln, he (Lord Pollington) as a voter for the county of Nottingham would ask the right hon. Gentleman, whether he was not satisfied with the defeat which the noble Lord had already experienced?
 MR. O'CONNELL  said, that the strongest
 * 760
 LORD J. RUSSELL  remarked, that no one could refuse to the hon. Member for Somersetshire the credit of believing that he was influenced by feelings of humanity on this and other subjects; and he must also add, that he was not surprised that to the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman the hon. Member should have made some objection. He did trust now, however, that the hon. Member would consent to the proposal; adopt these Resolutions in Committee that night, and take the discussion on Monday. The whole difference in the matter must be, that by adopting this course, they would take the discussion a few days sooner than it would otherwise come on. These articles were contained in the Tariff; but the Tariff might be delayed from various causes. As he understood the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman, it was that these articles might be admitted immediately at a low duty. He had also to add that he thought the Government had exercised a sound discretion in ordering a supply of Indian corn; for if they had purchased the oats in the markets in Ireland in the name of the Government, they would have raised the price of food; whilst now they had, without raising the price, added to the quantity of food in the country. But then came the question whether such Indian corn should be admitted free to meet an emergency, or be permitted to be introduced permanently? That was a proper question to consider, and it would be quite competent for the hon. Gentleman to move an Amendment to the effect, that Indian corn should be only admitted for a certain period, or for the recommittal of the Resolution. He trusted that when the question was discussed, it would be debated with calmness, and with a due consideration for the present state of Ireland. The hon. Member for Somersetshire was fully justified in seeking for discussion, and he saw no objection to its being taken upon the Report of the Committee.
 The EARL of MARCH  hoped, after what had fallen, from the noble Lord the Member for London, that his hon. Friend would withdraw his objection for the present. He was surprised, however, to hear the right hon. Gentleman at the head of Her Majesty's Government say that the state of Ireland now required the immediate passing of these Resolutions. The right hon. Gentleman knew of that state when he brought forward his Tariff;
 766
 LORD WORSLEY  recommended the withdrawal of the Amendment, as a division would be a useless waste of time, with no prospect of success.
 MR. W. O. STANLEY  rose for the purpose of moving the following Amendment—
 "There be paid a fixed Duty of five shillings per quarter upon Wheat." s. s. 718 s. s. d. s. s. d., l. s. s.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had proposed this Amendment had said that it would lead to a tranquil settlement of the question. He, however, could not flatter the hon. Member with the hope that a 5 s. 724 s. s. s. s. s. s.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  would not make any apology for the few observations he was about to address to the House. He could assure, the hon. Member for Sheffield that there was no "shaking" on that side of the House, in their determination of upholding the interests of agriculture, and the other branches of domestic industry. He did not mean to say that the present system of protection was to remain permanent for all time and under all circumstances. If, for example, his hon. Friend the Secretary for the Home Department were to come down to the House, and fulfil all the promises and recommendations he made to the country in 1826, and offer full compensation to agricultural interests; if he were to come down on the part of Her Majesty's Ministers, and propose to deduct 30 per cent of all payments out of the Exchequer for that purpose, commencing with the Civil List, and going through all the annuitants on the public purse, and when he had got a reduction of 15,000,000 l. 744
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said: Sir, I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government, whether or no he has made up his mind as to what will be the probable operation of the Bill which he has introduced? I think that when the right hon. Baronet introduced the measure, he said he was unable to form any calculation as to its effects upon the price of home-grown corn. He then said, he had made no calculation whatever. A considerable time has since elapsed; and it surely must have struck the right hon. Baronet that the country is most anxious for the solution of the question, and to hear the opinion of Government upon the subject. I cannot avoid saying, Sir, that I think the right hon. Gentleman is bound to tell the country what his opinion is—what he calculates will be the practical effects of the changes. So short a time ago, Sir, as the 10th of June last, the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department predicted, with the greatest confidence, that if the total repeal of the Corn Laws took place, the average price of wheat could not exceed 45 s. 748 s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s.
 LORD G. BENTINCK : My right hon. Friend has not answered my question. I did not ask the right hon. Baronet to protect us from the influence of seasons, but a simple question, to which I think I have a right, on behalf of the country, to demand an answer before we go into the second reading. We have a right to know what the right hon. Gentleman estimates will be the difference, occasioned by the removal of protection as it now exists in the price of corn. I say again, the country has a right to know what the opinion of the First Minister of the Crown is on so important a subject—what difference the removal of protection will make in the price of corn. Let my right hon. Friend select any year—that year to which he adverted, 1836—when the average price of corn was 39 s. 753 s., s., s., s., s., s., s.
 LORD G. BENTINCK : Sir, I cannot quite concur in the necessity which is alleged to exist for taking this maize out of bond; inasmuch as, practically speaking, I do not myself see the difference, in point
 763 764
 MR. DISRAELI  wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman what quantity of corn had been imported by Her Majesty's Government into Ireland?
 MR. DISRAELI  considered that it was clearly the duty of the House to inquire whether the First Minister, who had recommended this measure, took the responsibility of passing it through the two Houses of Parliament. The gallant Officer had referred to some circumstances which occurred in 1835, and which were of great notoriety. He did not suppose the noble Lord, who was connected with those circumstances, could deny their accuracy. He would recall to the right hon. Gentleman a precedent with respect to this question, which he thought would be entitled to a more direct answer than that which he had given to the question of the gallant Officer. When the Master General of the Ordnance, Sir George Murray, was deprived of his seat in that House, the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Russell) rose and
 758
 MR. DISRAELI  understood, then, the right hon. Baronet to say that he approved of Mr. Gladstone being a Member of, and attending Cabinet Councils, although, in the year 1835, the right hon. Baronet did not approve of Sir George Murray attending those Councils, he not being at the time a Member of the House of Commons.
 MR. DISRAELI : I have no intention of trespassing on the House, but I feel bound to say that the right hon. Baronet has not answered the inquiry of my noble Friend. My noble Friend inquired whether the right hon. Baronet had, during the last six weeks, formed any opinion as to what extent the measure would affect the price of agricultural produce, and what the probable price of corn would be under the proposed measure? What my noble Friend said as to the opinions of Members of the Government three years ago, the right hon. Baronet has likewise passed over. I do not wish to enter into the general question. After what has fallen from the right hon. Baronet, it would be neither becoming nor courteous to do so, until the second reading of the Bill; but I cannot avoid saying that I think the inquiry of my noble Friend a perfectly fair and legitimate one. I think my noble Friend has a right to ask if the Government has not, during the six weeks which has intervened since the introduction of the measure, formed an opinion as to how it will affect the price of agricultural produce. If the Government have not formed an opinion, we will accept that reply at the value which we choose to place upon it—it may guide our future conduct, and the opinion of the country. The inquiry does not trench on the general merits of the question; within these limits my noble Friend has confined himself; he has not received an answer, though I must say I think he was entitled to it. After what has fallen from the right hon. Baronet, it would be unbecoming to press on him any general considerations. I am glad to congratulate the House on their deliverance from a great evil; and that henceforth there are to be no more quotations from
 752 Hansard. Hansard
 MR. C. BULLER  said, as the hon. Gentleman and his Friends were united, he presumed they were united for some purpose or other; and as they objected to the Motion for an alteration of the Corn Laws, it was but a fair inference that they were united in favour of the existing Corn Laws.
 MR. C. GORING  suggested to the Government that in Committee of Supply they should propose a vote of 100,000 l.,
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  understood that the hon. Member for Durham, who was fond of imputing motives to his opponents, was a prominent character in the Anti-Corn-Law League; and then there was the hon. Member for Bolton, who was the chaplain in ordinary, or the extraordinary chaplain of the League; and he wished to know from both, when they talked so much of their humanity, why they did not give 50,000 l.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  ventured on two or three occasions to express his astonishment at the position of the present Government — a Government which was once strong in every way, not only as regarded their own individual position, but also strong in the aid they received from their late supporters. He had taken the liberty to put some questions to the right hon. Baronet on former occasions. He asked, where were certain Members of that Government? he asked why were they not in that House? He received no answer; the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government was silent, and so also was the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department. Perhaps they delayed their answers waiting for precedents; perhaps they thought there were no precedents on the subject. But he was not without a precedent, and he could refer to Parliamentary records for the accuracy of which he might vouch: they were records to which the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, as well as the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, had themselves referred. He put questions to know where were certain Members of Her Majesty's Government who were always esteemed important men in that House? He now repeated the question, why certain Members of the Government were not present in the House? Where was the Secretary for the Colonies? Where was the Secretary for Ireland? Where were the Irish Attorney and Solicitor Generals? And where were two Lords of the Treasury? [An HON. MEMBER: A new writ has been moved for one of the Lords of the Treasury to-night.] There was one still vacant; but  ubi mel, ibi apes. 755 "Lord Darlington said, I wish to ask the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether Lord Palmerston is to be created a Member of the British Peerage, and thereby obtain a seat in the other House of Parliament? Or, whether any vacancy is likely to occur in this House, so as to enable him to procure a seat here? The public know nothing upon the subject, except that Lord Palmerston has been gazetted as Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs; and it is highly important that the fact should be understood." "If the noble Lord answer in the negative, I wish to ask, whether it be intended that the noble Lord should continue to hold the situation as Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs? I believe it is perfectly unusual, and almost unprecedented, for an individual not in Parliament to hold a Cabinet situation." "The noble Lord has asked me several questions, all of them of rather an extraordinary and novel nature. One is, whether it is the intention of the Crown to confer the dignity of the Peerage upon a certain individual? Next, whether it is the intention of any Member of this House to vacate his seat for that individual, or, as my right hon. Friend suggests, to vacate in that individual's favour by dying himself? The question then arises, whether, in that case, any particular body of constituents would be disposed to elect the noble Lord, who has heen referred to, as their representative in this House, or whether they would choose some other representative? There then arises a fourth question, or a fifth, whether, supposing none of those things to happen, it is intended that Lord Palmerston shall then continue Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs? Really these questions are of so extraordinary and novel nature, that I can only entreat the noble Lord to bring forward a distinct Motion on the subject." "Perhaps the noble Lord will allow me to ask him another question? The noble Lord talks of novelty; is it novel or is it not for an individual holding the office of Foreign Secretary to have no seat either in this or the other House of Parliament?" suaviter in modo "I can only say that if the state of things of which the noble Lord complains had continued for
 756 non est inventus,
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that with regard to accepting the Chiltern Hundreds, he believed that was an office for which application must be made to Government. Then he never would make that application. He would never disgrace himself so far; but he would tell the right hon. Baronet this, that if he would dissolve Parliament, he cared not even if the right hon. Baronet were himself to come to Lincoln, and with all the expectations that he might hold out to the citizens of Lincoln, he (Colonel Sibthorp) was quite prepared to meet him. He never bribed any man. He had no Treasury seats to offer; he had nothing but his own conduct—his principles and consistency to rely on. But with all this disadvantage he would invite the right hon. Baronet to the contest. Let him dissolve Parliament to-morrow, and send whom he liked, he would try a contest for the city of Lincoln, which he had had the honour of representing for twenty years, and his ancestors before him for a century and a half. With the support he could command, he would set the right hon. Baronet at defiance. There should be no tricks, no Anti-Corn-Law League manœuvres. He defied the right hon. Gentleman. He would stand upon his own character, his own consistency, his own conduct. Let the Anti-Corn-Law League men—let the Secretary for Ireland try; he would meet them, and would see whether they would dare offer such an insult to the citizens of Lincoln. He relied upon their consistency, and their Conservative principles.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  invited Sir R. Peel to meet him next Friday at the corn market in Lincoln. He would entertain the right hon. Gentleman generously, and give him the best bottle of wine he had
 759
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  thought that, as hon. Gentlemen opposite turned to that (the Opposition) side of the House as if they deemed all the responsibility of the repeal of the Corn Laws was there to be attached, it was only fair that they should learn what was the view there taken of the probable effect of the withdrawal of protection. The answer might be illustrated by an analogous case. A person who had
 754
 MR. FINCH  regretted that a more satisfactory answer had not been given by the right hon. Gentleman. Every body knew that the price of wheat varied with the seasons and other circumstances; but the right hon. Gentleman might state what average he expected. When you took away a duty varying from 1 s. s.,
 MR. FINCH  would meet one case with another. He knew a farmer in the same county, Essex, who, not long since, in answer to his landlord, who was a free-trader, and who attempted to persuade him that, as the shackles of trade were about to be removed, he ought to take a new lease, said that, but for the capital he had already sunk in the farm, nothing would induce him to take a lease at the same rent, foreseeing the injurious effect which the removal of protection would have upon agriculture. The circumstances which might have induced the farmer to whom the hon. Gentleman alluded, to increase his rent were twofold: first, the land might have been greatly enhanced in value; secondly, the farmer might have been sanguine that the Government measure would have been
 747
 MR. HUDSON  would assure the House that, in his own neighbourhood, numbers of small proprietors, who had in their occupancy one hundred acres of land and upwards, found it very difficult, under all the advantages which the present law afforded, to maintain their position. He would ask what must their situation then be when the proposed measure would come into operation? If it became law it was his firm conviction, and the conviction of the landed interest in his county (Yorkshire), whether Whig or Tory, that certain ruin would be the result. With reference to the subject alluded to by the hon. Member for Cockermouth, and spoken of by the First Lord of the Treasury, he thought that to enfranchise copyholds by a compulsory law would be to do an act of injustice to the lords of the manors,
 743
 MR. HUDSON  said, that he had never alluded to the wages in Sussex, and was gratified to hear they were so good, though he was not at all surprised to hear it, believing that most, unfounded statements had been made as to agricultural labour; and he trusted that what had been stated would weigh with Her Majesty's Ministers.
 MR. AGLIONBY  wished to call the attention
 731 732 "Your Committee have come to the conclusion that the abolition of the copyhold tenure would not only be a great public benefit, but that it should be made, if possible, a national object."
 MR. BURROUGHES  wished to advert shortly to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Cockermouth. At a time when it would be necessary to call into operation all the productive powers of the soil, he thought it was the duty of the Government to remove every obstacle that was in the way of improvement; and he did not think that the right hon. Baronet was correct in his view of the Copyhold Enfranchisement Act, when he said that a commutation under that Act converted a fine certain into a fine arbitrary. He spoke with diffidence; but his opinion was, that upon the enfranchisement of copyhold land, under that Act, which was effected by the payment of so many years' purchase, as the case might be, no fine remained, and the tenure was altogether changed. That appeared to him to be an analogy between the mode in which the Highway Act was about to be dealt with, and the mode in which he would have the Copyhold Enfranchisement Act dealt with. And he could assure the right hon. Baronet he did not think a compulsory clause in the Copyhold Act would be half so unpopular as the compulsory clause which was about to be added, for the appointment of district surveyors, in the Highway Act. He wished to be understood as approving that intention, however unpopular it might be. He thought the appointment of district surveyors desirable; but what was the state of the law now with regard to copyholds? There was an Act for the voluntary enfranchisement of copyholds; well, what was the consequence?—a copyright tenant complained that the fine was too high, and that the fees were forty times worse. The tenant would state that there was now a Copyhold Enfranchisement Act, under which proceedings were voluntary, certainly, but it would, in all probability, before long, be made compulsory. The value would be calculated upon the fines of preceding years; and so, he doubted not, out that since the passing of that Act, fines had been higher than before; and he knew that, like the district surveyors' clause in the Highway Act, the Act for the voluntary enfranchisement of copyholds had been almost a dead letter. The right hon. Baronet had said, that the purchase of small estates was much checked on account of the expense. Now, nothing increased
 738
 MR. BRIGHT  wished to say a few words with regard to the permanent duty to be levied on Indian corn. The duty of 1 s. 767
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he should have been greatly surprised at the speech of the hon. Member for Somersetshire, if he had not recollected the extraordinary objections raised by him on a former occasion. He was quite sure that the hon. Gentleman must see on a little consideration that he would be not only consulting the wishes of the House, but also those of the country, if he acquiesced in the proposition of the right hon. Baronet. No doubt the protectionists would not object to allow maize to come in, if, by so doing, they could only keep out wheat; but surely in the present day it could not be made an objection to the introduction of maize, that human beings would get a portion of it, and that it would not be confined exclusively to brute beasts. Considering the state of Ireland, he hoped hon. Gentlemen opposite would withdraw their opposition to the present proposition; or else, if they went on at this rate, they would not only lose their Corn Laws, but their character.
 MR. HUME  thought few measures would tend more to the development of the productive powers of the soil than making the enfranchisement of copyholds compulsory. The more our tenures were simplified the better. He hoped measures would be adopted to carry out the recommendations of their own Committee on the subject.
 MR. BORTHWICK : Under the existing circumstances of the country, the measure proposed by her Majesty's Government was totally uncalled for; indeed, any measure on the subject of the Corn Laws was at present uncalled for, and unnecessary. Nor could he take into his favourable consideration any amendment which would imply any alteration in the Corn Laws at this time. He was, however, far from saying that circumstances would not
 742
 MR. P. HOWARD  said, he had placed on the Order-book a Motion in reference to the question which had so long occupied the attention of the House. It was to give to their Colonies and Canada time to prepare for the great change that was proposed in reference to the Corn Laws, as he knew that they could not keep pace with the rapidity of the alterations, and would be unable to compete with the United States. He also considered, in reference to the farmers of this country, that existing contracts should regulate the councils of great nations. With regard to tenants-at-will, it was not necessary to come to any arrangement; but with leaseholders it was very different, and by withdrawing protection from them, they would inflict upon them a very great injury; yet his wish was not to interfere further than would merely protect existing rights. As hon. Gentlemen who had preceded him, had considered it advisable to withdraw their Motions, it was probable he should follow their example. He saw many reasons for an immediate cessation of the existing protective duties, in order to meet
 745
 MR. M. MILNES  considered what had fallen from the hon. Member for Cockermouth had as much to do with the question under discussion as if he had delivered a dissertation on the state of New Zealand. He would not, after the House had listened to what had been said by the several Members who had addressed the House, ask them to retrace their steps for the last few hours, and go back to what he had laid before them. He still believed that he did right in making the proposition, not concurring in the opinions of hon. Members who had referred to it; and notwithstanding his own impression as to the advantage it would be to the public, he would withdraw his Motion, at the same time expressing his hope that at a future time he should have an opportunity of again bringing it under the consideration of the House, when it would be more favourably received.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  rose for the
 727 "To more the omission of all words in the Resolution respecting the importation of Corn, referring to the cessation or alteration of duties to be paid in 1849." 728 l. l. 729 s., 730
 MR. GREENE : It is not competent to the hon. Gentleman to refer to speeches delivered on a former occasion in this House.
 MR. GREENE  (the Chairman) then proposed the First Resolution, which reduced the duties on corn, grain, meal, or flour, which put and agreed to. *
 MR. ALDERMAN COPELAND  expressed his hearty concurrence in the measure of the right hon. Baronet, but thought that it would have been more complete if the repeal of the Corn Laws had been total and immediate; for the effect of its being only gradual would be to keep the farmers of the country, for the next three years, in a state of uncertainty and agitation. Till this question was settled by a total abolition of duty, it would never be settled; but it would be annually discussed. He was last Monday in the county of Hants,
 746 l. l., l. l.,
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  considered that the Government had acted wisely in not interfering with the price of oats in Ireland; for, by their not doing so, many in Ireland were now able to supply themselves with oats, who could not have purchased them had the price been raised upon them. In this matter, then, he was bound to say
 765
 MR. W. ELLIS  assured hon. Gentleman that, in consequence of the delay which had taken place, and the uncertainty which prevailed with regard to the measures before the House, a great check to employment was experienced in the manufacturing districts.
 SIR A. BROOKE  would, at that stage of the proceedings, address some observations to the House, explanatory of his reasons in giving his opposition to the measure introduced by Her Majesty's Government. He would principally confine himself to the operation of the measure as regarded Ireland; for however the interests of England might be involved, he maintained it would ten times more affect Ireland. It appeared to him very extraordinary that, during the whole of the debate, there was so little said as to the effects the measure might produce on Ireland. And of all the Irish Members who voted in favour of the Bill, only two attempted to justify that vote; and of those two, one was the follower of the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. O'Connell), while all of them assumed to themselves the exclusive privilege of watching over the particular interests of the poorer classes of Ireland. None of those Irish Members had good reason for the course they had taken — a course in opposition to their former sentiments and votes. Some reason ought to have been given for a change of conduct so extraordinary; for had there been any reasons adduced throughout the debate which were calculated to satisfy his own mind as to the propriety or the necessity of the measure before the House, or that it would tend, even in a comparative degree, to benefit the condition of the lower classes of the people of Ireland, it should have his cordial support. In considering the measure with reference to
 739 l. l. 740 "I am now anxious that the Association should distinctly understand the position we are placed in. The Association is most anxious to have the country free from the horrors of the wholesale murders of the clearance system, and of the often retaliatory and hideous assassinations. The Coercion Bill does not even purport to give any remedy for the crimes of the landlords; and it is more likely to provoke additional assassination than to check the progress of crime, or bring to punishment those who are already stained with the guilt of perpetrating those crimes." 741
 MR. WARD  said, he had hitherto looked upon the right hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. S. O'Brien) as the pink of consistency, the very mirror of agricultural chivalry. He was therefore astonished to hear the hon. Member, the Chairman of the Publication Committee of the Protection Society in Old Bond-street, who were pledged never, under any conceivable circumstances, to adopt any measure by which the agricultural interest would receive less than their present amount of protection—he was astonished to hear that hon. Member come forward with such a  Mysteries-of-Udolpho
 SIR R. PEEL  hoped the hon. Member for Pontefract would not think he was guilty of any disrespect—a feeling which he entirely disclaimed—if he abstained on the present occasion from entering into a consideration of the arguments which the hon. Member had urged with very great ability. Such a course would have the effect of reviving the whole of the debate which had taken place on the Amendment moved by the hon. Member for Somerset. In the course of that debate, he stated the reasons which induced him to think that it was for the permanent benefit of all classes of the community, that a foundation should be laid for the complete adjustment of the Corn Laws. To that sentiment he deliberately, and on the fullest consideration, adhered; but he could not enter on the explanation of it without opening up the
 733 734
 SIR R. PEEL : It would be most unjust to contend that, because the Resolutions were permitted to pass without a division, or the expression of much dissent, any compromise was entered into. They were necessary as the foundation of the Bill, which the hon. Gentleman said was to be contested in its future stages; and it would be impossible justly to assert that those who acquiesced in the Resolutions, had abandoned their opposition in the slightest degree. But he could not compliment the hon. Gentleman on the clearness of his explanation. The hon. Gentleman hoped he had satisfied him (Sir R. Peel) that he had not derogated from his principles, most completely; he (Sir R. Peel) had never thought so: nothing was further from his intention than to impute to the hon. Gentleman any opinion that he wished the present amount of protection to be in the slightest degree abated. On the contrary, he thought the hon. Gentleman differed from the hon. Members for Huntingdonshire and Nottinghamshire, in being unfavourable to any modification of the Corn Laws. He thought the hon. Gentleman said, if we must incur the inevitable evil of a change in the Corn Laws, then he should decidedly prefer the proposition for an immediate repeal to that proposition brought forward by the Government. The hon. Gentleman decidedly preferred the maintenance of the existing Corn Law; but, he said, on the hypothesis that something must be done, and an extensive change
 736
 SIR R. PEEL : I think my noble Friend will see that I could not answer his question as to the price of wheat under the proposed measure, or its effect upon the tithepayer
 749 s. s. s. Hansard; Hansard, 750 s.; s. s., s., s., s., s. s. 751
 SIR R. PEEL : The hon. Gentleman asked me for an answer which I had already given. I stated that it would be utterly impossible for me to estimate what the price of wheat would be whatever the state of the law was—that it is influenced by other circumstances. I cannot enter further into the question.
 SIR R. PEEL : It is because of my courage in 1842 that I hesitate now. But it is not that I ever gave a guarantee that the prices of corn would vary from 54 s. s. Hansard, s. s., s. s. s.
 SIR R. PEEL : The duty was, in fact, a merely nominal one; and considering the very extensive reductions proposed on other sorts of grain, he hoped the hon. Gentleman would not oppose this part of the measure.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he did not propose to include buck-wheat and maize in the Corn Bill. The Corn Bill, which provided for the admission of rye, beans, barley, oats, and wheat, he proposed should be read a first time on Monday next, and he would fix the second reading for Monday week. It was not proposed to include the other articles which had been referred to in the Corn Bill; indeed rice never was included in the Corn Bill. The proposal which he made to the hon. Member for Somersetshire was, that he should permit these Resolutions to be voted in Committee to-night, and that the discussion should take place upon the Report of the Resolutions on Monday next, and should have precedence. He would make one remark in reply to his noble Friend (Lord G. Bentinck). The noble Lord said that the Government ought to have purchased Irish oats in Ireland, and the effect of that would have been to raise the price of oats in that country. That was very true, but then a great part of the population of this country — the manufacturing population of the west of England, derived their supply of oatmeal from Ireland. He referred to the west of Scotland and the west of England; and he would ask the noble Lord, whether he thought it just, that by an unusual intervention of the Government in purchasing Irish oats, and thereby raising the price, they should raise the price of the main article of subsistence in the west of Scotland, Lancashire, and Wales; and at the same time have refused any alteration in the Corn Law. That was one of the causes which he foresaw. There would have been complaints in those parts of the country where the price of food had been raised, not only that there was no alteration in the Corn Law, but that by the intervention of the Government they had raised the price of the chief article of their consumption. That was one of the points which they foresaw would make it difficult to refuse an alteration of the Corn Laws.
 SIR R. PEEL  replied, that orders had been given to purchase Indian corn and rye to the amount of 100,000 l.;
 SIR R. PEEL  said, it had been suggested by the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Russell) that buck-wheat, Indian corn, or maize, should be included in the First Resolution, instead of standing among the miscellanous articles in the Second Resolution. He therefore proposed to embody in a distinct Resolution those articles, and he hoped there would be no objection to this. [Mr. MILES: I object to that course.] The suggestion of the noble Lord was, that the duty should be immediately relinquished on those articles (buck-wheat, maize, or Indian corn); but he (Sir Robert Peel) having entered into an engagement that with regard to articles which were to be included in the new Corn Law he would not exercise on the part of the Treasury the power which they usually exercised, of remitting the duty immediately after the Resolution passed the House, but that the duty in respect to those articles should not be remitted until the Bill should have passed the House of Lords and have received the Royal Assent, he could not include buck-wheat, maize, and Indian corn in the First Resolution. He however, had hoped that there would have been no objection to the exercise of the power which the Treasury possessed in respect to these latter articles, should the House pass the Resolution proposed. The whole amount of duty would thus be remitted at once. He regretted that the hon. Member for Somersetshire should oppose this. He moved—
 "That in lieu of the Duties of Customs now chargeable on the articles under-mentioned, imported into the United Kingdom, the following Duties shall be charged, viz. 
 
 s. d. 
 Buck-wheat, the quarter 1 0 
 Maize or Indian Corn, the quarter 1 0 
 — Meal, the cwt. 0 4½ 
 Rice, the cwt. 1 0 
 — of and from a British Possession, the cwt. 0 6 
 — rough and in the husk, the quarter 1 0 
 — of and from a British Possession, the quarter 0 1
 SIR R. PEEL  must, in justice, say that he had directly called the attention of his hon. Friend to the proposal, hoping it would answer his views. Some time since his right hon. Friends had taken upon themselves the responsibility, to lessen the pressure in Ireland, of ordering a large quantity of Indian corn from the United States, for which act they must ask for the indemnity of Parliament. He had reason to believe that many benevolent individuals looked upon it as a substitute for potatoes, of which he assured the House there were alarming accounts, and that if Indian corn were admitted duty free, individuals would at once spend a large sum in the purchase of Indian corn as a substitute for potatoes. He agreed with the hon. Gentleman that Indian corn properly prepared might make excellent food, and when the existing pressure was overcome, might make the best substitute for potatoes. He asked the hon. Gentleman whether he might not allow the Resolution to pass through Committee to-night, on the understanding that it should be reported the first thing on Monday, on which occasion it would be competent for the hon. Gentleman, if he so chose, to raise his objection. He thought that this arrangement might be satisfactory to the hon. Gentleman, who would then have an opportunity for consideration in the interval, and perhaps would see the advantage of admitting Indian corn, not only for the purpose of feeding cattle, but also for the purpose of feeding the people in the present emergency in Ireland. With respect to the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman, that Ministers might admit maize duty free by an order in Council, that would be a most unconstitutional proceeding while
 762
 SIR R. PEEL  could not help remarking that the hon. and gallant Officer always forgot when he rose to ask a question, before closing his speech, to put the question. With respect to the offices to which the hon. and gallant Member referred, that of the Chief Commissioner of Woods and Forests had been filled up by the appointment of Viscount Canning; and the other office, that of one of the Lords of the Treasury, would be filled up by Monday next. These were the answers to the first inquiries of the hon. and gallant Officer; but if he further insisted upon an answer to his question as to when the Secretary of State for the Colonies and the Secretary for Ireland would obtain seats in that House, he must honestly confess that he could not give the hon. and gallant Member any positive answer. He would only remark that if the hon. and gallant Officer should think proper to accept the Chiltern Hundreds, he could assure him that his noble Friend (the Earl
 757
 SIR R. PEEL  did not recollect under what circumstances Sir G. Murray, at the time the hon. Gentleman referred to, did not attend the Cabinet Councils, nor did he recollect that the reason he (Sir R. Peel) assigned for the right hon. and gallant Officer not attending those Councils was that he was not a Member of Parliament. Until he referred to the Parliamentary records, he could not speak upon the subject.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that he believed there had been no Cabinet Council held since his right hon. Friend Mr. Gladstone had been appointed Secretary to the Colonies, which he had not attended. His right hon. Friend was a Member of the Cabinet, and attended the Cabinet Councils, although he was not a Member of that House.
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  was of opinion, that the proposition of the Government would have an injurious effect upon the country. He did not agree with the opinions expressed by the hon. Member, that the proposed Bill would give any security that protection should exist for the term of three years; for in case corn should rise to "famine, prices," he did not believe that the right hon. Baronet would retain even the 4 s.
 MR. W. MILES  said, he had meant to state that the farmers would prefer the proposal of the noble Lord for immediate repeal. But he had not intended to say anything contrary to what he had always proposed; he merely gave the out-of-doors opinion. With respect to the statement of the right hon. Baronet as to the opposition he had given to the Tariff in 1842, he attributed the rise in the price of meat to the immensely increased consumption of labourers employed on railroads, as well as to the disease among the cattle. Though he might be supposed to be a false prophet, he would still tell the House, that whether they took the duty off cattle or not, they might expect an annual increase from the Continent, which would work exceedingly well, not injuring any one, so long as the demand for labour continued. But when the demand ceased, that instant the
 737
 MR. W. MILES  agreed that they should throw no kind of delay in the way of passing this measure, after having fully considered and come to a decision on its principle. Amongst the different Amendments on the Paper, he could not see any in which he could concur; and a discussion on any of them would, of course, have the effect of opening the whole question of the Corn Laws. He thought, therefore, the disposition of the House would be best consulted by abstaining from unnecessary discussion. The intention of the party to which he belonged was, having discussed the subject fully and fairly, and placed their opinions before the country, to leave the country to speak for itself, when it should come to that election which they hoped was not far distant, and decide whether their view, or that of the right hon. Baronet, was the most advantageous for the country. With respect to this Amendment, he completely dissented from it, considering the principle of the existing Corn Laws as the best that had been proposed up to the present time. He wished to retain the law of 1842; and to all the Amendments he should give his decided opposition. Hitherto the varying systems of Corn Laws had entered comparatively little into the discussion; but there would be subsequent opportunities of showing that there would be such a declension of prices as would render it impossible for the present holders of the soil to maintain their position. He wished, before he sat down, to correct a misapprehension of the right hon. Baronet, with reference to a speech he had delivered on the Motion for going into Committee. The right hon. Baronet conceived that he had
 735 pro formâ;
 MR. MILES  said, that though it was not his intention to throw any opposition in the way of the Resolution immediately, he, at the same time, wished to tell the right hon. Gentleman, that when they came to take maize from the Tariff, and deal with it as if it were in the Corn Bill, they would materially affect the agricultural interest, not only as regarded the price of wheat, but also the price of barley and oats. His hope and trust was, that the right hon. Baronet merely wished to take the vote on it to-night; but what description of vote would it be? Was it that it should pass under the shilling duty immediately? If the Committee came to that conclusion, he for one would at once give it a decided negative. If the Government pleased on their own responsibility to take maize from the Tariff, it was necessary at once to take the objection. It was quite impossible for him (Mr. Miles) to bring forth all the arguments which justified his objections, as he did not know that this question was to come on. He wished that they should have some discussion on the subject. Notice of Motion was given at the very end of last Session, when no one was in the House, that there was an intention to move this Session for a total repeal of the duty on the article of maize. He believed that no observation was made on the subject at that time. It was said by the right hon. Baronet, that maize was used in America for fattening animals. He represented in the House of Commons that it was food fit for pigs; but the American papers said that those who were the authors of such a statement very much resembled swine themselves. The papers also confirmed the statements made by the noble Lord the Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire, who said that from his long residence in America he was well aware that what were there called "Johnny Cakes," went far to supersede the Yorkshire cakes. This maize then must come in direct competition not only with wheat,
 761
 MR. MILES , though perfectly prepared to discuss the subject, yet knowing that certain objections were raised in the country to the introduction of maize, he thought it his duty to get up and to state shortly what those objections were. Hon. Gentlemen, when discharging their duty, should not be lectured so severely even by Corn Law repealers. He thought, though in opposition to the hon. Member, he had always given the hon. Member credit for honest motives, and he trusted that his own motives would not be impugned. He ought not to be held up to disapprobation, as expressing opinions which he felt to be inconsistent with reason. The Government had provided a large quantity of Indian corn for the consumption of the Irish people. He did not think that anything could be more legitimate than that, before a famine occurred, fearing that it might occur, the Government should take Indian corn out of bond duty free. But when it came to a question of having our markets inundated with this maize from America, it became quite necessary to interfere against any such proposition; and, at all events, their conduct in so interfering should not be thus impugned.
 MR. W. MILES  said, that for the purpose of showing his desire to relieve the distress which was threatened, he was willing to add a proviso to the Resolution or to-night, empowering the Government to take out of bond or to import maize, buck wheat, or Indian corn, free of all duty, for the next three months.
 MR. O'CONNELL,  in rising to put the question to the right hon. Baronet opposite
 781 in forma pauperis.
 SIR J. TYRRELL  said, he trusted that he should not be unnecessarily occupying the attention of the House whilst he read a letter which he then held in his hand. He did not wish to delay the business of the evening, and he would best consult the convenience of the House by at once reading the letter. But, in order to explain its contents, he must state that the worthy Alderman the Member for Stoke-upon-Trent, had the other night stated, that, as a member of a corporate body, he had
 786 "I see my friend, Mr. Alderman Copeland, mentioned in the House of Commons on Friday"—
 SIR. J. TYRRELL : Well then, it has been asserted by Mr. Alderman Copeland, that
 —"he, 'as belonging to a corporate body, had lately let a farm in Yorkshire, containing nearly 900 acres, to a farmer from Essex, at an increased rent of 200 l. l., l., l. l., l, 787
 MR. MILES  had been in hopes, from the observations of the right hon. Baronet, that a few words would have been introduced with respect to this article, to make it more palatable to the agriculturists of the country. The right hon. Baronet had said, that he would limit the period for the operation of the Treasury order, by which the farmers of England would at once be exposed to the competition of rice and buck-wheat. He objected, upon principle, to the reduction of this duty; but it would withdraw no small share of his opposition if the words, "for a period of three or four months," or of some stated period, were introduced to limit the operation of this reduction. The right hon. Baronet would see that that section of the House were desirous of offering no opposition to the introduction of produce, for the relief of Ireland; but they wanted that a temporary remedy alone should be applied to a temporary evil. Perhaps the right hon. Baronet would state his intentions upon this point, before he proceeded with any general observations he had to offer upon the subject.
 MR. MILES : Will there be any personal security?
 MR. MILES  trusted that the right hon. Baronet would forgive him for not having distinctly understood the answer which he had given; but it was most desirable that the matter should be made clear both to the House and to the country. He would now refer to the subject more directly before the House. The properties of Indian corn, or maize, were little understood in this country; but he trusted that the agriculturists of England would now begin to understand them. Maize was in itself, as to its quality, in cereal crops next to wheat. If they took a bushel of maize it was equal to 1¾ bushels of barley, and to three bushels of oats. As to nutritive properties, that was the relative proportion between Indian corn and oats and barley. But how did it stand as to wheat? There could be no doubt Indian corn would be used largely instead of barley and oats. He understood from a friend of his, that Indian corn could be brought to the port of Liverpool under 20 s. 789 s. 790 "Corn meal is the flour of which I send you a specimen, and when mixed with water, and made into stir about, it is called mush; and done stiff, it is called hommany. Now we pay at New York 100 cents,  i. e. s. d. s. 791 s.
 The EARL of MARCH  remarked that it had been stated by the hon. Member for Montrose that the disease in potatoes was not only prevalent in America, but also in Scotland; he begged to inform the hon. Member, that he was able to state, upon the authority of letters received by himself, that in Morayshire and Ayrshire there never had been a more abundant crop, and that there was not the slightest appearance of disease.
 MR. PIERCE BUTLER  observed, that several remarks had been made in the course of this debate which led him to believe that there was a very erroneous impression in the minds of certain hon. Members with respect to the rate of wages usually awarded to Irish labourers. He begged leave to remark, for the information of the House, that in the southern counties of Ireland able-bodied labourers were usually paid at the rate of 5 s. s.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  suggested that, as the Act for the establishment of international copyright had only been so very recently passed, and as the Government were on the point of concluding treaties with two great Powers upon the subject, it would not be advisable to throw away the advantage that might be derived by the literary men of this country, by proceeding to a step which would have the effect of rendering the negotiations that had taken place nugatory.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he was quite delighted with the speech of the hon. Gentleman, for he now wished to deal with the question in a  primâ facie
 MR. B. HOPE  could not see that this question had anything to do with copyright. He was anxious to see the elaborate and splendidly illustrated foreign works introduced into this country, partly, perhaps, from a selfish motive, for he had been purchasing several such works lately at a great expense; but partly, also, with a view of shaming our own literati, whose attempts in this way were utterly disgraceful as compared with those on the Continent. He should support the Motion of the hon. Member for Dumfries, if he made it clear before they went to a division, that his proposition did not extend to the introduction of the piratical editions of English works.
 MR. WILLIAMS  admitted the principle involved in the proposition of the hon. Member for Dumfries; but he did not think the reduction would be any great advantage, because it was only the richer classes who bought foreign books, to whom a saving of 2 d. d.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Treasury to explain the principle on which he has acted in this Tariff. When the question of the Corn duty was discussed in 1815, Lord Grenville, as was well known, made a memorable protest against the imposition of any duty upon that article, when Lord Grey said, "If you let the manufacturer have his corn cheap, why not let the farmer have his coat cheap?" To which Lord Grenville answered that the request was perfectly reasonable, and that he meant to do away with the protection upon woollen cloth as well as with the protection upon corn. I observe, however, that in the present Tariff it is
 828 s.,
 LORD J. RUSSELL  quite agreed that, making so great a change, they ought not to affect the revenue materially, contrary to the opinion of the Government; but if he looked at these articles, he found that they only produced 600 l. l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the system of which the hon. Member spoke might be good or might be bad; but it was not the system which he (Lord J. Russell) had spoken of. He had spoken of articles of which the duties had been imposed for the sake of revenue. He saw that 625 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  observed, that the noble Lord could hardly pronounce what would be the effect of the abolition of the duty of 10 per cent. at the end of three years, since he could not yet tell what would be the effect at the end of three years of reducing the 20 per cent. duty to 10 per cent.
 MR. DUNCAN,  as the representative of a considerable manufacturing constituency, begged leave to assure the House, that so far from the manufacturers being desirous of retaining any protective duties for three years, or even one year, they did not desire their continued existence for one moment.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  regretted that a spirit of compensation to the agricultural interest had been so completely neglected in the formation of the present Tariff, and recommended the reduction of duties on tin, and the abolition of the malt tax, as likely to prove of essential service to the farmers.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  said, that he had that day been informed by market gardeners residing in the neighbourhood of London, that the "rot" was showing itself to a considerable degree amongst the young potatoes; and within the last few days he had read a letter, written by a large landed proprietor of the county Clare, which stated that great distress prevailed, and cases of fever had occurred in consequence of the diseased condition of the potato. Under these circumstances, he suggested that a temporary law for the purpose of preventing the exportation of potatoes might be adopted with advantage.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  was understood to say, that he thought if proper steps had been taken in time, a great deal of the mischief that had occurred in the potato crops in Ireland might have been remedied. He had received a report of a number of experiments that had been recently made by the gardener to the Duke of Portland, which, with the permission of the House, he would read for the benefit of those who might hereafter have their potato crops affected by disease. His Lordship read as follows:—
 "No. 1, kiln-dried according to the recommendation of the Government professors—nearly all rotten; a few eyes have sprouted, but very weak. No. 2, and according to the plan recommended by Mr. Reece, of Piccadilly,  i. e., i. e. 806 "The following was the result of the magnesian lime upon two loads of the very worst potatoes they could pick out at the farm—they were spread out on the floor of a peach house, and the stench was quite disagreeable, a great many being in a state of putrefaction. Having dusted them all over with a coat of lime newly slacked, next day the lime took nearly all the smell away, and brought a deal of water out of the worst. We kept dusting some fresh every day, till the rotten part was converted into starch, the solid parts dried and turned quite green. I put them all into a ridge, and on looking at it yesterday I found the eyes of many had sprung, and were forming fine healthy shoots, some of them four inches long, and quite white." d. s. d. s. d. s., s. s. s.
 MR. DISRAELI : The question was, was it proper to admit foreign literature free of duty? He should like to know what was the whole amount of revenue derived from this tax, and whether that amount would justify legislative interference. He rather thought there was no duty on English works when they entered France. He thought the very fact of introducing the question of copyright showed a great immaturity of thought. It had, he repeated, nothing to do with it. He wanted to know, taking a  primâ facie primâ facie
 MR. DISRAELI  was not surprised that the right hon. Gentleman should have been satisfied with the moral victory upon which he had congratulated himself; and he only hoped that Her Majesty's Government would consider that there was very little chance of their being in a minority until the "great and comprehensive" measure was passed. It might be accident the other night, when the House was interested in a subject of great national interest, that, for a moment, feeling there were duties without the walls of that House of a paramount nature, they fulfilled their office, and Her Majesty's Government were in a minority. He was sure that would not happen again. He was sure that hon. Gentlemen opposite would instantly rise and assure Her Majesty's Government there was not the slightest apprehension until the "great and comprehensive measure" had passed, of Her Majesty's Ministers ever being in a minority. He therefore relied upon it that in Committee they would be spared the sacrifice of the right hon. Baronet, who, at the last moment, when the battle was lost, had put on his armour, and, like a Paladin, rushed to the fray, bringing Ithuriel's spear to the combat, as his only weapon, saying that his Government was not a Government that subsisted for party but for posterity. "Posterity" would prove a very grand principle, until the "great and comprehensive measure" was passed. Yet there were persons out of doors who would
 820
 MR. DISRAELI  thought the hon. Secretary of the Treasury had put the question in a fair light; but he thought he had not properly stated the case. He, for instance, could understand the principle that Molière should be introduced into Dover, and Shakespeare into Boulogne, both duty free. But he was still of opinion that nothing could be more indiscreet than to mix up the question of permitting Molière to come into England with a guarantee to English authors that their works should not be printed in foreign countries in the English language. There was not the slightest analogy between the two cases. He would say for himself, not arrogantly, for he was scarcely an English author—but it was just and right that an English author should be protected in his own country. He had the same claim to that which other gentlemen had to be protected in their lands and houses; undoubtedly, therefore, it was right to give protection to English authors in their own country. But hon. Gentlemen entertained ulterior views of increasing the enjoyment of his property to an English author. Now he thought, as he had always thought, that
 815
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that with respect to reciprocity, of which the right hon. Gentleman had spoken, he would accept the  tu quoque.
 MR. HAWES  said, the Motion of his hon. Friend (Mr. Ewart) distinctly referred to the admission of foreign books published in foreign languages, and the question of piracy of the works of British authors did not at all arise under it.
 MR. B. ESCOTT  thought that the people of Ireland should be provided with cheap food, but it was necessary care should be taken that there were no legislative acts in force by which the food so much wanted was limited. If wages were so low that it was impossible for the best disposed to give more than 5 s. 800
 MR. C. BULLER  could not see why the question of copyright should be mixed up with the Motion of his hon. Friend, whose object was to obtain a remission of the duty upon foreign books. He approved most fully of the provisions of the Act referred to by the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Clerk), which provided that copyright should be made the subject of international treaties, so as to afford security to authors in this and other countries. He considered the tax on foreign books pressed very heavily upon a class of the community who were, from their situation in life, very
 811
 MR. NEWDEGATE,  with reference to the observations of the hon. Member for Montrose, did not consider a saving of 500,000 l. 832 in absurdum.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he had no wish to interrupt the arrangement proposed for the benefit of Ireland; but he wished to disabuse the House of the impression that maize, or Indian corn, would become a substitute for the potato. As to its coming in competition with oats, he could only say that, in the United States, it was universally used in preference.
 THE SPEAKER : It is against the rule of the House that any hon. Member should read any letter which takes notice of anything said in this House.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that the Irish landowners were to blame for the extremely low rate of wages in that country. With such wages as had been alluded to, no wonder that discontent there prevailed, though the people were naturally kind-hearted and peaceable. The best remedy for the distress of Ireland would be a fair day's wages for a fair day's work, and re-
 796
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that no doubt the hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr. Ewart) was very much disappointed that the two clerkships for the Treasury were filled up. If, however, the hon. Member persevered and continued to act as he had just done, he might yet perhaps succeed to one of them.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he did not see why there should necessarily be any confusion arise from two distinct ideas being considered together. It was quite true that the duty on the importation of foreign books, and the question of copyright, were two distinct matters. The former was interesting to foreign countries, and the
 814
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that he was extremely glad to hear the hon. Member for Somersetshire declare that it was not his intention to divide the House upon this subject. He was sure nobody who had heard from his hon. Friend in the course of the speeches which he had delivered on the propositions of Her Majesty's Government—declarations couched in the strongest and most emphatic language—of his sincere sympathy for that part of the population who were dependent for food on the potato—nobody, he said, who had heard those declarations could have failed to see that they were made in perfect sincerity, and in entire accordance with the general character of his hon. Friend's feelings and conduct. And he himself placing the most perfect reliance upon their sincerity, was extremely glad that, on reflection, his hon. Friend did not think it necessary to divide against the proposition now before the House. For what was the present position of the question? His hon. Friend was influenced by fears which he believed to be exceedingly exaggerated. Notwithstanding the high authorities which his hon. Friend had quoted, he believed it to be incorrect that 700,000,000 bushels of Indian corn were grown in the United States. He would not now enter into particulars—he did not
 792 s. "The straw makes excellent fodder; and the grain as a bread-corn is liked by some; but, though it abounds in mucilage, it contains little
 793 "We have to obtain favour for this new food at the beginning, which in the end will be the greatest possible boon to Ireland; for I apprehend, as a food, the potato will never be what it has been, nor can the people ever place the same confidence in its growth. It will in time resume its proper station as a vegetable, and cease to be a staple article of food. Thus it appears to me there can be no reasonable competition between corn, meal, and oatmeal." 794
 MR. FINCH  said, that however true it might be that the population of the country should not look to the Government for a supply of food, that abstract principle must be thrown aside when necessity demanded a supply; and he considered that the Government were perfectly warranted and justified in importing a quantity of Indian corn to meet the emergency. With respect to that commodity becoming a substitute for wheat or potatoes, that was, in his opinion, perfectly absurd, as they did not know but before the end of the present year they would be at war with America; and in case that should occur, of course their supply would be instantly stopped. Therefore, he said, it would be an unwise policy to attempt to induce the population of the country to give up their usual food, and depend upon a supply of a different description, that might be stopped at any moment. With respect to what had been
 805
 MR. HUDSON  said, that although there had been an increase on the article of glass, and that such increase would most probably continue, the question was, whether any protection was to be continued to manufactures, when it had been totally withdrawn from agriculture? The right hon. Baronet had not announced his intention to abolish protection on manufactures at the end of three years; but the country would expect that if protection were removed from agriculture, it would also be taken off manufactures. The country, he repeated, would look for justice in this respect; and if even-handed justice was to be dealt out, protection ought to be taken from manufactures as well as agriculture. Whether the present tax could be considered a protection to manufactures or not, the country would think it a tax of 10 per cent., and would demand its removal. He hoped the right hon. Baronet would well consider whether he could not confirm the entire principle, and say, "Protection to all classes shall cease at the expiration of three years." Protection could not, with any degree of consistency, be withdrawn from agriculture while the taxes on tea, sugar, and malt were retained. The principle, in his opinion, ought to be applied to all classes or to none.
 MR. G. PALMER  said, that it would be impossible for those people to buy Indian corn who could not afford even to purchase oats. The Indian corn would be entirely grown abroad, and paid for by the produce of this country. It was a material point in the question, that every thing would require to be paid for. If they could persuade people to take their goods all would be well. But manufacturers were increasing abroad every day; and they would still, therefore, have to look to the home supply for the maintenance of the people. He thought there were more Members on his side of the House ready and willing to support the people of Ireland, than there were on the Opposition benches and among those who wished for a repeal of the Corn Laws. He was quite satisfied, that if Indian corn were imported into this country, it would be all owing to the alteration of the Tariff of the right hon. Baronet. He was sure every Member of that House would agree to afford relief to the Irish people. How could the labourers in that country provide for their families upon two shillings and sixpence a week? It was hardly possible for them to buy even straw to lie upon with so small a sum. He thought that, were they to construct railways through Ireland, it would improve the country directly. Any alteration must be for the better. There would be no fear of the people wanting food if proper employment were found them.
 MR. AGLIONBY  agreed with the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Treasury (Mr. Cardwell), that there was no confusion arising from the two subjects being considered conjointly. What he wanted to know was, whether the principle which they had followed on this subject two years ago were to be still acted upon? He thought the policy of this Session was entirely different from the principles of reciprocity for which the Government contended in regard to this question. If his hon. Friend the Member for Dumfries did divide the House on his Motion, he (Mr. Aglionby) would certainly vote with him; though it was, perhaps, a question whether it would be wise or discreet to proceed to a division upon it.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that no question raised during these discussions was more deserving the attention of the House than the allusions made to the present condition of the people of Ireland, and to the prospects eventually before them; and if there were no other arguments to show that the Government, in the present circumstances of the country, had adopted the wisest policy in abolishing all restrictions on the introduction of provisions into the country, that argument would be found in what had been stated by hon. Gentlemen as to the condition of the population in Ireland; Indian corn was likely to afford valuable subsistence for them, and to raise the people from the lowest condition, caused by their habitually living on potatoes. He would not make any predictions of what might be the result; but experience showed how the habits of a people might change by a more generous diet. So far as maize should be adopted for potatoes, it must be a beneficial substitute as well in England as in Ireland: though when wheat was at a reasonable price, he did not think it would be superseded by Indian corn. Having been in the Western States of America, he should say that, though maize was palatable and liked by the people, yet when he got to the wheat-growing districts, the general diet was not Indian corn. Upon that occasion he was only anxious to say one word as to the measure of Government in laying out, as he understood, 100,000 l. 804 Thoughts on Scarcity,
 MR. CURTEIS  was astonished that one of the professed advocates of free trade should have brought forward these harassing Motions; and he could only say, if he was the right hon. Baronet, and he was put into a minority on this question, he would throw up the whole concern at once. The hon. Member was a member of the Anti-Corn-Law League, and it was inconsistent in him now to bring forward a Motion which would probably place a free-trade Government in a minority.
 MR. CURTEIS  suggested that half the protection being about to be removed from the English hop grower, it was only right that the excise duty should be reduced in
 822
 DR. BOWRING  regretted that French wines had not been included in the Resolutions. French wines could be bought at 2 d. d. s. s. d. s.
 DR. BOWRING  said, if ever there was
 816
 DR. BOWRING  was rejoiced to hear a Gentleman connected with an establishment known to the ends of the earth express opinions so favourable to free trade, and declare his desire to have what might so justly be called "the burdens" of protection removed from the manufacturing classes.
 DR. BOWRING  suggested that measures should be taken to ascertain from consular returns what was the state of the crops in the countries to which we might look for a supply. As there were countries in which the use of Indian corn was universal, it might not be impossible to obtain some information as to the various methods in which this very important article of food was prepared.
 MR. W. PATTEN  said, he had been directed to make an inquiry of the Vice President of the Board of Trade with respect to the very important question of the amalgamation of existing Railway Companies. The Railway Committee of which he was a Member experienced great difficulty in the cases of amalgamation which came before them. He was induced to ask the question which he was about to put to the right hon. Gentleman, not only for the purpose of enlightening the Railway Committees, but also the public at large, because it was one which involved circumstances of a very serious nature. He wished, then, to know whether the Government intended taking any measure this Session with the view of settling the different amalgamation Bills now before Parliament. The Committee had directed him to put the question before they proceeded any further with the subject. One or two plans had been submitted for the settlement of the question; but he thought he might state that the opinion of the Committees was, that a question of such vast importance to the country would be much more satisfactorily determined upon by the Government, and if not by them, at least by some Select Committee to be appointed by the House. He therefore wished to ask
 780
 MR. HUME  said, he had recently conversed with a gentleman who had travelled in every part of America, and who stated that, notwithstanding every effort had been made there to stop the potato disease, it had gone on for three years; and there was great reason to fear that we should have it for the same period in England. If there was anything he hoped for, it was the very reverse of what was desired by the hon. Member for Somersetshire. He hoped that the Indian corn would come in competition with home-grown corn, and that the people might thus obtain a cheap and wholesome nutriment. He regretted that any opposition should be made to the measure, with the present appearances, not only in Ireland, but along the whole of the west of Scotland, and in the Highlands. It was a most fortunate thing that there was likely to be a quantity of this Indian corn sufficient to avert what might otherwise be a most serious famine; and on that ground he concurred in the desirableness of remitting even the shilling duty.
 MR. HUME  suggested that his hon. Friend should withdraw his Motion, at the same time expressing it as his intention to vote for it if it went to a division.
 MR. HUME  was surprised to hear such doctrines from the hon. Gentleman (Mr. T. Baring). The hon. Gentleman seemed to be retreating to times which he (Mr. Hume) hoped would never return. The hon. Gentleman's doctrines were unaccountable, except on the supposition that he had not read the Papers already on the Table. He would have found from the Report of the Import Duties Committee, that of 1,150 articles of taxation, 1,000, as they showed, might be struck off, at a loss of not above between 500 l. l. 831 l. l.
 MR. FORSTER  said, that the question of copyright had nothing whatever to do with the repeal of the duty on foreign printed books in living or dead languages. He did not see why it should be mixed up with the Motion. There was no earthly reason why the foreign student in this country should be debarred from the necessary books, not even that of protection to existing establishments.
 MR. BORTHWICK  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not informed them whether the duty was to be imposed for the sake of protection or of revenue. He thought the question of protection had been disposed of by the hon. Member who had just sat
 813 l.,
 MR. BORTHWICK  believed that the principles of the question had been placed on a clear and intelligible basis by the noble Lord the Member for London; and
 833
 MR. P. HOWARD  considered that the Legislature should be much indebted to the Member for Winchester, for having directed attention to the advantages which would be conferred upon the population of the country by the introduction of Indian corn. He found that Father Mathew had also approved of it as an article of food for the people of Ireland. It was very extensively used in Italy, and especially in Tuscany, the peasantry of which were the best fed and most comfortably clothed in Europe. As to the palatable nature of the food, very much would depend upon the manner of its preparation for use; it would require extreme boiling. He considered Indian corn
 801
 MR. P. SCROPE  considered that some measures ought to be devised by which they might give to the poor of Ireland the right to relief in the districts in which they resided. He could not help observing that there could, by no possibility, be a scarcity in Ireland, if the food grown in Ireland were left in Ireland. Even since the time that it had been formally announced by the right hon. Gentleman that famine was impending over that country, immense quantities of provisions had been exported from it. Oats might be wanted in Scotland and in the west of England, but assuredly those who had the first right to them were the people by whom they had been produced; they knew that on a former occasion when the people of Ireland were starving, that oats were exported from Ireland to this country, sold here to pay the rents of the Irish landlords, and then returned back to Ireland, when paid for here, to feed the tenants of these same landlords. If the
 799
 MR. P. SCROPE  stated that it had been observed by some hon. Member that no foreign books were printed in this country, and that, therefore, there was no competition to fear; but a great many English books were printed abroad at a much less price than they could be in this country, in consequence of the charge of copyright. If they repealed the duty on foreign books altogether, there would be no inducement to pass those reciprocal treaties for the protection of copyright and for the prevention of the printing of piratical editions of English works.
 MR. FITZGERALD  begged to state that the deficient payment of the labourer in Ireland did not arise from a want of good will on the part of the landlord, but from the number of people out of employment. He considered that railways in Ireland would be of vast and almost permanent advantage in removing this evil; and he felt no doubt that the country would be most grateful for any benefits bestowed upon them. He did not consider that it would be fair that the whole burden of relieving the poor of their districts should be cast upon the landlords of the absentee estates, as it had been suggested by an hon. Member; but he did consider that they ought to be made to pay their just proportion, and he felt that this visitation of Providence would be the means of restoring the Irish people to their proper position.
 MR. T. BARING  said, if the House were to adopt the noble Lord's proposition, they should be sacrificing altogether the revenue derived from indirect taxation. The reduction of duty proposed would not, he believed, render these goods one farthing a yard cheaper to the consumer. On the plan that the noble Lord advocated, of taking off all duties, they would not only not benefit the consumer, and not benefit the manufacturer, and not enlarge their trade, but they would be making the whole of the Customs duties fall on a few — twelve or fifteen—articles, which would make it a taxation on population; but if the population of this country once saw that articles in which they were mainly interested were made the principal objects of taxation, he thought they would never be content to let tea, tobacco, and coffee be taxed, when agates and articles down to vellum were not taxed. The country must have direct taxation in that case; and, if so, he would leave the noble Lord to say how he, with such a taxation on capital, could help driving capital out of the country. That was
 830
 MR. GISBORNE  thought the proposition of the hon. Member (Mr. Ewart) too crude to divide the House upon it, and that he would better consult the interests of free trade by resting satisfied with the credit of the present discussion. He therefore advised the hon. Gentleman not to divide, but withdraw the Motion.
 MR. WYSE  said, it was the duty of the House to give every inducement to the introduction of foreign literature; and he remarked that he had often derived more information upon our own learning and literature from German writers than from our own. It was nearly the same as to Italian. With the exception of Dante, Pe-
 819
 MR. ALDERMAN COPELAND  observed that if he could have obtained as much labour as he required, he could have carried on an immense trade. The public had not benefited by the right hon. Baronet's alteration of the duties on glass so much as they would have done, if there had not been a scarcity of labour.
 MR. EWART  was impressed with the conviction that it would be impossible to oppose this reduction for along period; and being convinced that it must come under the consideration of the Government in the course of next year, and that at the present moment he should be able only to carry a portion of it—considering also that he was a friend to the general measure of the right hon. Baronet—knowing, too, that it must be carried next year if not this—and fully satisfied that this question had now gained a victory, he would postpone the Motion.
 MR. EWART  said, that the duty on foreign books was a subject in which he felt a very deep interest, since it was intimately connected with the diffusion of literature in this country. The duties at present levied on foreign hooks were of a very anomalous description. In the first place, a distinction of duty was drawn between books printed before the year 1801, and hooks printed subsequently. The former were admitted at a duty of 1 l. l. s. l. d. 808 Biographic Universelle, L'Art de vérifier les Dates. s.; s. s., s. d. s. s. 809 l. l. "Books printed in any modern foreign language be admitted duty free."
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  said, in explanation, that the report made by the Land Commission was the authority on which he founded his belief, that the average wages of the agricultural labourers did not exceed 2 s. d.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  wished to remove the impression of hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House, that this was a mere temporary infliction which had to be provided for. There were several facts which induced him to believe the contrary. In one neighbourhood, he understood, the potatoes had been diseased ten or twelve years; the disease had appeared in different forms; but, in the year before last, it had assumed that which it now presented; and there was no reason to apprehend that it would be removed speedily. It had always been found that, whenever there was a deficiency of the potato crop in one year, in the next the people were induced to dig them too soon, before they were ripe, and that created this year's scarcity. For this and other reasons, it would be very unwise in the House to expect that they were not called upon to provide for future scarcity. But be that as it might, the greatest blessing that could be conferred upon the people of Ireland would be to furnish a food which would lead them not to look to the potato as their sole resource; nothing would add so much to the prosperity of that country as a supply of food which should be a substitute for the potato. Independently of that, the greatest boon that could be conferred on Ireland would be to give cheap food to the people. If this were not done, the people could not be employed at such wages as would give them the means of purchasing food. They must both employ the people, and furnish them such food as they could not obtain by the result of their labour alone. Plentiful employment and cheap food were the greatest benefits that could be conferred on the people of Ireland; and he anxiously wished to see the
 795 d. d. d., s. s. d. s. d.
 SIR A. BROOKE  denied that the Irish peasantry were so badly paid for their labour as was generally supposed. There were few of them that did not receive 3 s. d., s., s., s. d. d. s. s. s. 797 l. l. 798 l.
 SIR G. CLERK  admitted that it was extremely desirable that the object of the Motion should be accomplished; but there were other consideratins involved as well as the loss of revenue, which would be 10,000 l. s. 810
 SIR G. CLERK  said, that how far and under what circumstances the amalgamation of existing railways should be permitted, had been fully considered by the Railway Department of the Board of Trade last year; whose last Report was exclusively upon the subject of the amalgamation of railways, entering fully into the subject, and laying down general rules under which they thought amalgamations might be permitted. It was impossible for him to say that under no circumstances was it expedient for two or more railways to amalgamate; because there was no doubt that great advantage would arise from having the traffic on lines in the same direction under one general control. Great public inconvenience might arise from amalgamation of parallel lines, because that deprived the public of the benefit of competition. These principles were laid down in the Report of the Board of Trade last Session; and it also showed how they were to be applied to the schemes then in agitation; but the House judged differently, and allowed the amalgamations. It was not in the power of the Government or the Board of Trade to state more fully the principles upon which amalgamations should be conducted; but they must be applied according to the particular circumstances of each case. He thought it would be expedient that the question of all amalgamations should be referred to one Committee, and that the lines amalgamating should not be placed in different groups. They were generally not opposed, and the Committees directing their attention principally to those Bills which were opposed, did not attend to these amalgamating lines. The Committee which sat in 1839, and of which the hon. Member for Liskeard was Chairman, and that of 1842, over which his right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Colonics presided, had entered on this question, and directed attention to the inconvenience of allowing these Bills to pass as matters of course. He did not think, however, that any rule could be laid down beyond that mentioned in the Report of the Board of Trade, unless the expedient of referring all these Bills to one Committee was adopted.
 SIR G. CLERK  said, the hon. Member for Stroud (Mr. P. Scrope) had very fairly stated the principle on which the Government proposed to act. It was extremely desirable for the interests of literature that this country should take every possible means to secure for her authors copyright in foreign conntries. This country could not produce pirated foreign works, as they could not be published cheaper here than in foreign countries, and therefore the entire benefit of an international copyright regulation would devolve on this country alone. Consequently the only equivalent which England could offer to foreign countries for such an arrangement would be the admission of their works at a duty amounting merely to the excise duty on the paper used; and if the Motion of the hon. Member were agreed to there would thus be but little chance of inducing foreign countries to agree to the arrangement which they proposed.
 SIR JOHN RAE REID  observed, that there was no portion of the Ministerial project of which he did not cordially approve; and it would, accordingly, afford him the sincerest pleasure to support it. He had always held the doctrine, that the interests of the agricultural and manufacturing classes in this country were identical; and it was because he knew this to be the fact, that he gave to the propositions of the First Lord of the Treasury his warm and unhesitating assent; for he was confident that those propositions, if carried into operation, would prove in the highest degree beneficial to the best interests of agriculturists as well as of the manufacturers. He implored of hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the House not to protract this discussion by unnecessary delays; for he spoke advisedly when he assured them that he had the highest possible authority for asserting that trade had in many districts of England suffered most injuriously from the state of uncertainty in which this question had been permitted to rest for such a length of time. He besought them as they valued the welfare of the agricultural and commercial interests — in both of which he had himself a deep personal concern—to come to a decision at once. By the vote which he had given on this question, he was well aware that he had made for himself many enemies; but he was far from regrettting the course he had taken, for that course he had adopted under the strongest possible conviction that he was doing what was best calculated to promote the wealth,
 803
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  wished to ask another question in connexion with the present one. The right hon. Baronet had stated that as soon as a Bill founded on the Resolutions should have passed, the duties would cease and determine. Would it not be desirable that a separate Bill should be introduced to admit the introduction of those articles of food which now could be brought into immediate use, such as Indian corn, buckwheat, and rice? To such a measure there would be little or no opposition. He hoped the right hon. Baronet would state such was his intention.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he had stated that it was not proposed to include rice, buckwheat, or Indian corn. None of the duties included in the Tariff would be remitted by a Treasury order; he should wait till the Bill was passed. But these duties on Indian corn, buck-wheat, and rice, would be included in the general Tariff; and it was proposed by a Treasury order to admit the introduction of these three articles, buck-wheat, rice, and Indian corn, as soon as the Resolutions should have passed; but, in order to prevent the possibility of any jealousy on the subject, he was perfectly prepared to declare that the Treasury order should admit them for a limited period only—that a bond should be taken in the case of every remittance, providing that the whole amount of duties should be paid in the event of the Bill not receiving the sanction either of the Lords and Commons. He trusted that the Tariff was of that nature that it would not be necessary to propose a separate Bill, because it was quite clear that the authority of Parliament to reject the Bill would be maintained by the
 785
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I am sorry to say that the statement made by the hon. and learned Gentleman does not fall much short of the impression first formed in my mind with regard to the pressure that might be expected in some districts, and the difficulties of the inhabitants of those districts. From the accounts received in the months of October and November last, I certainly did anticipate that the fears then expressed would be in a great degree realized; and the hon. and learned Gentleman is aware that the first act of Her Majesty's Government was to propose some measures that would be calculated to have the effect of mitigating the impending distress, by providing the best mode of relief—the supply of employment for the people. The hon. and learned Gentleman must feel that the best mode of relieving a people, with a view to their moral position, is by enabling them to supply their own wants by obtaining payment for their labour. In justice to
 782 783 l. 784
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that he had received communications from benevolent persons in the United States, and in some parts of France, where Indian corn was very extensively used. He was in possession of ample information as to the mode of pre paring Indian corn. At a very early period Government addressed an order to all the Consuls in Europe to send returns. He believed that in every part of Europe the potato crop had been affected, with the exception of some parts of Italy, where a small quantity was grown, and in Spain. Speaking generally of the north of Europe—Sweden, Holland, Belgium, Denmark, Hanover—there was scarcely a part where the potato crop was not affected. In Prince Edward's Island, Nova Scotia, and many parts of the United States, the potato crop had also been affected. No dependence could be placed on any import of potatoes from abroad. He believed that many individuals had given orders for considerable quantities of potatoes for their own use; but the quantity required was so enormous, and there was so much risk during the voyage, that no great dependence could be placed on the import of potatoes.
 SIR R. PEEL : No Indian corn will be admitted without the bond of the importer to pay the higher duty, if the change is not sanctioned by Parliament.
 SIR R. PEEL : I wish to explain what my proposition is. I propose that by law there should be a permanent reduction of the duty upon Indian maize and corn, and upon buck-wheat and rice; that the duty shall be reduced to a mere nominal amount; and that this shall be the permanent law of the land, and shall take effect as soon as this Bill shall have received the consent of the Legislature and the Royal assent. With respect to buck-wheat, rice, and Indian corn, however, I propose, when the Resolution respecting these articles shall have been reported, to issue a Treasury order, remitting the present legal amount of duty to a nominal rate; such Treasury
 788
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, I am much obliged to the hon. Gentleman for the spirit in which he has spoken of me; but at the same time I beg to assure that hon. Gentleman, that I knew well, in undertaking the task which I have undertaken, that I would have many difficulties to contend with. At the same time, it is a great object to bring these matters to a conclusion; and if I am in a minority to-night, the hon. Gentleman may depend upon it that I will not be influenced by such considerations. Neither that nor any other minor difficulty shall induce me to relax my exertions to bring these great questions of commercial policy to a satisfactory issue. That, Sir, is the main object which at present I have in view. At the same time, I do hope that those hon. Gentlemen who concur generally in the policy of the course pursued by Her Majesty's Government, who wish to see these great and comprehensive measures fairly carried out, will support me on this occasion. It would now be wise in them not to insist on their own views. I can easily conceive that in dealing with 300 articles many persons may be of opinion that on this or on that article the Government have gone too far, or not gone far enough; but if you are satisfied, first, that there is extreme difficulty in dealing with so many articles, and second, if you generally approve of the whole measure as
 817 l. l. l. s. s. l. 818 Life of Condé.
 SIR R. PEEL  did not think that the falling off in the consumption of wine to which the hon. Member alluded was attributable to the duty alone. There had been a great change in the habits of the people of this country. Much might, no doubt, be said in favour of reducing the duty on French wines; and so there might in favour of a reduction of the duty on tea; but there must be some limit to the re-
 827
 SIR R. PEEL  wished he could, with due regard to the revenue, considerably reduce the excise duties; that, however, was quite separate from the question, whether the English hop grower required a greater protective duty against the foreign grower than 2 l. s. l. s. l. s., l. s. l. s.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that at present on the chief articles of manufacture entering into the clothing of the poorer classes, there was an absolute and immediate reduction of duty. The noble Lord would recollect that 10 per cent. was all the duty now leviable on the articles to which he had referred. On cotton, woollen, and linen goods there had been a total repeal of the duty, not at the end of three years, but instantaneously. The noble Lord might as well ask him why, if he adopted a total and immediate repeal of the duties on cotton, woollen, and linen goods, he at the same time retained the duties on corn for three years? He (Sir R. Peel) should have just as great difficulty in answering that question, as in answering that which the noble Lord actually asked. The total amount of revenue received on the articles to which the noble Lord referred, amounted to not less than 2,300,000 l.; 829
 SIR R. PEEL  intended to-morrow to move for a great number of Returns, to which he hoped the attention of the House would be directed. They would refer to the effect of taking off the duties on wool, flax, linen, and shipping; in many points it would be of great importance the House should be acquainted with them before proceeding on the subject the hon. Member behind him (Mr. T. Baring) and the noble Lord had referred to. He should move for these Returns; and if any hon. Gentleman thought they were incomplete, though unintentionally so, and that any supplemental information was required, he should be perfectly ready to give any other returns that might be thought calculated to afford information on the subject. Reductions last year were made upon the glass duties and the duties on auctions. One of the grounds on which he invited the House to consent to that reduction was, that it would enable them to make a reduction in the Excise establishment; the saving in the salaries of officers in the Excise alone, mainly owing to the auction duty having been repealed, and the reduction of the duty on glass, was 52,636 l.;
 MR. WILLIAMS  said, that in submitting to the House a Motion to address Her Majesty to institute an inquiry into the state of education in Wales—he might truly say
 846 847 848 "It should be borne in mind that an ill-educated and undisciplined population, like that existing amongst the mines in South Wales, is one that may be found most dangerous to the neighbourhood in which it dwells, and that a band of efficient schoolmasters is kept up at a much less expense than a body of police or soldiery." 849 s. s. s. s.; 850 l., l. l. l. l. "It would be improper to pass unnoticed amongst the causes which affect the social condition of the people, the ignorance of the English language which pervades so large a portion of the country—the facts which have come to our knowledge preclude us from regarding this circumstance in any other light than as a great drawback upon the advancement of the community. It practically presents obstacles to the efficient working of many laws and institutions, particular instances of which have been brought under our notice; we need hardly advert to the difficulties which it has long opposed to the Established Church, and to the administration of justice, as an impediment to social intercourse. It excludes a large portion of the community from the career of advancement or change of occupation; and it prevents the development of their minds by restricting them to those very scanty sources of information which their native language affords. We have no reason to believe, however, that any feelings of national jealousy or prejudice exist, which would prompt the uneducated classes to resist the attempt to
 851 The Times The Times "Before I bid adieu to the Principality, about which I have written so much, and where I have sojourned so long, let me recur to a subject to which I also alluded in a recent letter—the lamentable deficiency of education amongst its people. During a residence of five months in Carmarthenshire, in which period I have been over every portion of it and the adjacent counties, I may be presumed to have seen much of the population. Amongst them in a period of excitement, perpetually mixing and conversing with large bodies of them, I have had opportunities rarely possessed of observing their character, their capabilities, and their usual attainments—con-
 852 "But how is this to be remedied? By education; an extensive, a sound, a feasible plan of education, where English is the oral means of communication; teach the people a knowledge of the useful sciences through its medium. The principle which is at the bottom of the acquisition of knowledge, is a motive of self-interest to attain it. The Welsh have this; every farmer desires, if he can only obtain the means, to teach his son English, because he knows that in every branch of industry, it is the language of promotion; but increase this motive of self-interest by giving increased facilities to inter-communication, give an impetus to the spread of the English language, and to a diffusion of the knowledge of the arts and comforts of civilized life amongst the poor Welshmen, which, while it improves the face of their beautiful country, will make them a more happy, a less servile—a superior people." "To no department of your office are these remarks more applicable than to that which is connected with the education of the children of the poor. In no other way may so much be effected with such slender means. It is not with this, as with some of our other institutions, that they are commonly least valued in proportion as they are least needed. It is, I believe, very rarely indeed that the poor are found to be insensible to the benefits of education, even when they have received none themselves. They are anxious, sometimes the more so on that account, that their children should be better instructed; and many, we have reason to hope, are the cases in which the parents have been indebted to their children for religious knowledge and principles, which they would never have acquired without their assistance and example. This is a consideration which opens a clear prospect of an almost unlimited extension of the most salutary influence to those who are able and willing to wield this powerful instrument." 853 "In a late debate it was said, in alluding to the wide-spread spirit of agrarian turbulence in this part of the country, that such a violation of the laws as South Wales is the scene of betokened a general uneasiness, the cause of general disaffection. Now we will venture to affirm, without reference to any periodical written in the. Welsh language, that if the people had been acquainted with the English language, had had proper instruction provided, instead of being as they now are a prey to designing hypocrites, with religion on their lips and wickedness in their hearts—a prey, at the same time, to ignorance of their rights, and to the penal consequences of anarchical proceedings,—they would be at this moment, from the geographical and other peculiar advantages of their position, the happiest as well as the most peaceful and most prosperous population in the world." 854 855 856 l. l. l. l.; l., l. 857 l. s. d. l. l. s. d. l. l. l. l. l. l. 858 859 l. l. l. l. 860 l. l. "The people's ignorance of the English language, practically prevents the working of the laws and institutions, and impedes the administration of justice." "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, that She will be graciously pleased to direct an Inquiry to be made into the state of Education in the Principality of Wales, especially into the means afforded to the labouring classes of acquiring a knowledge of the English language."
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I have no wish, Sir, to enter into the present debate; I have only risen for the purpose of pointing out to the hon. Member for Finsbury, and those Members who have taken up his views, the necessary consequences of the course they are pursuing, and the results of this discussion. My hon. Friend finds fault with the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Bute (Mr. Wortley) for having, in his speech, stated circumstances which seem in his opinion, and most probably in that of the House, adverse to a favourable consideration of the case before us. But is it competent for us to come to any opinion on the case without considering the offence committed by the guilty persons? Is it possible that hon. Members could enter into a debate on this subject, and not state the circumstances which they think serve to extenuate the guilt of these persons, on the one hand, or those which, on the other, would make it inconsistent with the duty of the advisers of the Crown to extend mercy towards them? It cannot be a desirable or a profitable course to avoid discussion because it would bring into view the unfavourable circumstances of this case. It surely is not desirable that the House should appear to advise the extension of mercy which the Crown does not think proper to grant. The hon. and learned Member for Bute has, to the best of my recollection, stated the circumstances of the case most accurately and distinctly; and I feel myself bound to bear him out in the truth of his statement, that except for a difference of opinion among the Judges on a purely legal and technical point connected with the trial, the Secretary of State of that day saw no reason whatever why the punishment of death should not be inflicted on Frost and his companions. As it happened to be a great question of State, and not a mere ordinary case in criminal law, the Secretary for the Home Department thought it right to take the opinion of his Colleagues on the point; and I do not recollect that there was any difference of opinion among us—except in so far as the difference among the Judges was concerned—as to the punishment recorded against the prisoners. I think it right to state that fact, because the hon. Member for Bute has been censured for his expressions of opinion respect-
 919
 MR. C. O. MORGAN  begged to correct that portion of the hon. Member's statement which referred to the wound of Sir Thomas Phillips. He could assure the hon. Member, that instead of a cut finger from broken glass, Sir Thomas received a gunshot wound in the hand when in the act of opening the window to call for military aid.
 MR. J. S. WORTLEY  said the hon. Member who had last addressed the House (Mr. Disraeli), had taken the opportunity of vindicating his own unerring
 902 903 "As the jury have in each case pronounced you guilty of the crime with which you have been charged, I should be wanting in my duty if I did not declare that the verdict which they have pronounced meets with the entire concurrence of all my learned brethren and myself." "It has been proved in your case that you contrived to lead from the hills, at the dead of night, into the town of Newport many thousands of men, armed in many instances with dangerous weapons, in order that they might take possession of the town, and supersede the lawful authority of the Queen, as preliminary to a more general insurrection." "The guns were to go first, the pikes next, and then the people without arms. Frost said that he was going to take Newport, and that he would break down the bridge, and prevent the passing of the Welsh mail, the non-arrival of which was to be the signal for the attack in Birmingham, in the north of England, and to the whole nation." 904
 LORD F. EGERTON  entirely concurred in the opinion of the noble Lord. If the House was of opinion that the Government had caused to be inflicted an unjust sentence, or improperly withheld the extension of the prerogative of mercy on the part of the Crown, then the proper course would have been to have moved a vote of want of confidence in the Government in the exercise of its powers. In the case of the Dorchester labourers, the argument of
 920
 LORD J. MANNERS  proceeded to address the House. The noble Lord commenced by observing, that, in spite of the speech just delivered by the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley), in which the hon. Member had stated that the continuance of the discussion could come to no good, and as it had been stated that the petitions of the people who had no representatives in that House were treated with scorn and indifference, he wished to interpose a very few observations before the House came to a division on the question now before it. He thought that the whole tone of the present debate must serve to convince, not only persons in the House but also out of doors, that there existed no indisposition on the part of the present House of Commons to listen calmly, fairly, and dispassionately to the cases submitted by those classes who, it was said, had no direct representatives in the House. Among other points which had arisen in this discussion, he (Lord J. Manners) wished to correct a mistake which the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley) had made, with respect to what had fallen from the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. Inglis). He was sure the hon. Member never meant to say that the hon. Baronet had stood up as the champion of the Church, to vindicate intolerance, and to interpose between the exercise of the prerogative of mercy. He was sure that the hon. Member would, in his calmer moments, give the hon. Baronet credit for the possession of as much humanity as that which actuated the hon. Member himself. His hon. Friend (Sir R. Inglis) might properly think, as a consistent member of the Church of England, that he was justified in promoting the laws of the land, and in
 912
 LORD J. MANNERS  thought there was but a very little difference between them. In the case of the Duke of Monmouth's rebellion, the sentence was that the rebels should be hanged, drawn, and quartered; the sentence on Frost, Williams, and Jones was, that they should be hanged, drawn, and quartered: while the particular punishment carried out was, that the rebels in the former case were transported to the plantations; while Frost, Williams, and Jones, had been transported to the Colonies. He thought the right hon. Gentleman had not by his explanation made any material difference in respect to his case. The right hon. Gentleman had asked the House to look at the motive which had induced Frost to set himself up and to levy war against Her Majesty. What was Frost, it was asked? A linendraper, who wished to become a dictator, had been the reply. Now he could not forget that the House, by its vote on a former occasion, had determined to celebrate the name of Hampden. And who was he but a private gentleman, who also levied war against the constituted authorities of the kingdom? But it was said that the cause in which Hampden had been engaged was genuine, while that of Frost was not. That was a mere question of opinion. There were
 913
 MR. DISRAELI : I am very glad the right hon. and learned Member has vindicated his letters. It is always, to me, at least, and I believe to the House, so agreeable to listen to the right hon. and learned Gentleman, under any circumstances, that we must have been all gratified to-night that he has found it necessary to vindicate that celebrated epistle, which produced at the same time an effect that has not been forgotten; and I wish that hon. Members in a position as eminent and distinguished as that of the right hon. and learned Gentleman, would also rise and vindicate those other letters which have influenced public opinion, and produced likewise very great effect during the last six months. If they were to do that, the present debate would, I believe, be able to show a comparison in interest with any debate that has occupied our attention for a considerable time. I trespass on the notice of the House to-night with great reluctance; but I have reason to think that the House will acknowledge the necessity of my doing so, when I state that five or six years ago I was, on this very subject, in one of the smallest minorities that ever divided the House—namely, a minority of four, on a Motion identical, I believe, with that which now attracts our attention; and I certainly have not the moral courage to refrain, in the present instance, from coming forward to express an opinion similar to that which, on that occasion, I vindicated by my vote. I think it impossible to aggravate the crime of which these individuals were convicted. It is, as was said to-night by the right hon. and learned Gentleman, in probably better language than it was ever expressed in before—a crime which includes all other crimes; and I am bound also to say that I think, and have ever thought, that the punishment to which they have been subjected is as lenient as any punishment could be under the circumstances. When the crime was so enormous—when the judgment was so merciful, you might well say that it is not the part of this House to come forward either on the present or on the previous occasion; and when you have decided in all public transactions on the mere merits of the case as placed before you, then I admit it will be very difficult to meet
 897 898 899 900 901
 MR. C. BULLER  moved that the debate be adjourned.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  would adopt the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  rose to submit his Motion.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  felt it imperative to bring the subject before the House, and if hon. Gentlemen objected to the proceedings at that time of the night, there might be an adjournment; but if not, having already done so much to meet the wishes of all parties, he would proceed—
 "To move the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into an alleged organized and extensive system of fraudulent and vexatious Objections
 929
 MR. DAVIES  said, that he was acquainted with a large number of parishes in Wales, in which schools had been established by the landowners, though he
 866
 MR. G. W. HOPE  rose for the purpose of noticing a single point in the speech of the hon. Baronet the Member for Oxford. That hon. Baronet had stated that the persons who had been found guilty of being engaged in rebellion in Canada, had been promoted and treated with honour by the Government of this country, acting through the representatives in Canada. He could assure the hon. Baronet that such was not the case; that no person who had been found guilty of being engaged in that rebellion had been employed at all. The leading person in that rebellion undoubtedly had now returned to his native country: but he had returned under no especial pardon of the Crown; but, under a flaw, if he might so call it, in the mode of proceeding; and the result had been that his conviction was found no longer available against him. But no pardon had been asked, and none had been granted to him. It was entirely in consequence of a technicality that he had been remitted from the consequences of his conviction. As respected those who had not been so prominent in the rebellion, he admitted that pardons had been issued; and the course taken by his noble Friend (Lord Stanley) who presided over the Colonial Department was this—he declined to issue any general pardon, but said he would consider each case as it presented itself, and he did so. The case of each of
 911
 MR. AGLIONBY  regretted the speech which had been just delivered by the hon. and learned Member for Bute (Mr. Wortley), which rendered it necessary that his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury should pursue that course which, under other circumstances he (Mr. Aglionby)
 905
 MR. AGLIONBY  protested against going into the discussion at so late an hour.
 MR. P. HOWARD  trusted that the hon. Member for Finsbury would not go to a division, but would rest satisfied with having brought the case before the House. He was confident that the hon. Member would not advance the cause he advocated by forcing the House to an adverse decision. The working classes, who had presented petitions in reference to that case, had acted with the greatest decorum and good order; and it was but proper to receive their petitions with attention and respect, particularly as their opinions were not directly represented in that House; but believing as he did that it was not right for a popular assembly, except in extreme
 918
 MR. R. SCOTT  was also in favour of the Motion. He said, Mr. Kinder's claim had not been decided against him by the courts of Mexico; but that an Act had been introduced into the Legislature, the effect of which was to deprive him of a large portion of his property, and render him incapable of meeting his engagements. This law was passed by the most corrupt means for particular purposes, and the end being obtained, the Act was immediately repealed. There was no doubt but that the passing of this Act had inflicted a serious injury upon Mr. Kinder. He (Mr. Scott) thought
 927
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  felt that great responsibility was thrown upon his course on this occasion. From some of the speeches that evening, one would think that no case of the kind had ever been submitted to the House before. Why did not the right hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Macaulay) exhibit the same indignation when the hon. and learned Member for Bath (Mr. Roebuck) brought forward his Motion for a free pardon to the Canadian rebels? Not one word was said then by the right hon. Member as to the impropriety of interfering with the prerogatives of the Crown. The right hon. Baronet said, that nothing was so wrong on the part of the Government as to retire from a discussion of this sort with an understanding express or implied as to the course that might hereafter be taken with respect to the convicts. But in the case brought forward by the hon. and learned Member for Bath there was an express understanding; and the hon. and learned Member at the close of the debate; said, he was perfectly content and satisfied that his clients would be released, and released they were. All he asked was, that the same weight and measure should be used for these unfortunate inhabitants of Wales as were used to the Canadians on that occasion. He had been unfairly used in this, that he had never rested the case on its merits; he had stated at the outset that he would not do so, and that neither he nor any of the petitioners attempted to justify the conduct of Frost or his colleagues; he said that they were guilty of a high crime and misdemeanor, but that they had endured punishment enough. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Mem-
 921
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, what he had stated was, that he believed that Frost had come down from the hills in order to make a moral demonstration in favour of Vincent, who was then in confinement in London.
 MR. T. S. DUNCOMBE , previous to bringing forward the Motion of which he had given notice, for an Address to Her Majesty, praying the extension of the Royal prerogative of mercy to Frost, Williams, and Jones, thought it right to apprize the House that he was charged with the presentation of 249 petitions, signed by no less than 1,400,000 persons, praying that the House would be pleased to interfere on behalf of those ill-advised and unfortunate men, with a view to procure their restoration to their homes and families. He would not weary the House by particularizing the names of all the towns in England and Scotland from which those petitions had emanated; but he would take the liberty of reading the names of a few of the places, that the House might understand that the petitions in question embodied the feelings of the inhabitants of some of the most important localities in the Empire. He was entrusted with petitions from the following localities, independently of others far too numerous to specify by name: Exeter, Lambley, Nottingham, Clayton (York), Manchester (two petitions), Crewkerne (Somerset), Ashburton, Birmingham (two petitions), Halifax, Reading, Dundee (two petitions, one 2,418), Huddersfield, Darlington, Plymouth, Edinburgh, Stainland, Leeds (two petitions), Bradford (two petitions), Radford (Notts), Haworth (Yorkshire), Stanhope, Linlithgow, Bowden, (Roxburgh), Paisley, Bocking and Braintree, Bacup (3,000), Wigton, Stoke-upon-Trent, Oxford, Old Basford, Shoreditch, Sudbury, Preston, Whitechapel, Derby, Redditch, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Bury, (Lancashire), Clackmannan, Cleckheaton, Hull, Bradford (9,000), Manchester (40,446), Salford (10,710), Tavistock, Newport (Town Council), Hanley, Collumpton, Devizes, Milborne Port, Chorley, London (two petitions), Radford, Staley Bridge, St. Luke's, Newton-upon-Ayr, Crayford (253), Warwick, Hamilton, Glasgow, Wigan (3,370), Ayrshire, Haslingden (Lancashire), Prescot, Chepstow, Tower Hamlets (760), Mr. Howitt (author), Thomas Cooper (ditto), Sheffield (13,000), Bradford (Wilts), Nuneaton (Warwick), Stafford, Kidderminster, (1,003), West Riding, Todmorden (3,040), Warley, Bexley, Leeds (32,500: Dr. Hook, the vicar, twelve
 868 869
 MR. DUNCOMBE  said, that after what had fallen from the hon. Baronet, he had no alternative but to submit to the House the Motion of which he had given notice:—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to take into Her Majesty's most gracious consideration the Petitions of the People presented during the present Session of Parliament, in favour of a restoration to their native land of Frost, Williams, and Jones." 870 871 instanter, 872 873 "If the majority of the Judges at the trial had decided, upon being pressed for their decision, they must needs have instantly been acquitted. It was an objection fatal to the whole proceeding — it applied to every one of the witnesses. The jury were empannelled—the plea had been pleaded—nay, more than that, again they could not have been tried. That was the first and principal ground he wished their Lordships to consider, and the other was altogether independent of the former. The counsel for the prisoner had a right to press for judgment at the trial, and it now turned out—because they knew what the Judges had done—it turned out, too, that two out of those Judges were in favour of the objection made at the trial, and of the party waiving the objection until after the arraignment and plea pleaded. It consequently followed as a matter of absolute demonstration, that if they had exercised their right of pressing the objection at the trial at Monmouth, it consequently followed, as a certainty, that the objection would have been sustained and the trial at once put an end to. He (Lord Brougham) knew, in point of fact, that that was not an opinion taken up after the arguments in town, but it was their opinion at Monmouth, at the trial. A stronger case—but infinitely strengthened by the bargain made with the counsel—a stronger case for absolute acquittal, in the whole course of his professional experience, he confessed he had never known. He
 874 875 876 "But rely upon it, there will be insurrections enough if turbulent and designing men are apprized that the penalty of raising a civil war is henceforth to be less than the penalty of robbing a hen-roost. Thinking this, I cannot hold out any hope that I shall vote for any Address in favour of those criminals." "They raised a rebellion which you admit to have been unjustifiable, led thousands of ignorant labouring men into guilt and danger, fired on the Queen's troops, wounded a magistrate in the discharge of his duty, caused the deaths of several unhappy creatures." 877 "I believe that the non-electors are as deeply interested as I am in the security of property and the maintenance of order; but I believe that a very large portion of them do not understand their own interest. That it is so I have proof under their own hands. I refer to the petition which Mr. Duncombe presented to the House of Commons in 1842. In that document some hundreds of thousands of Chartists asked for the franchise, and told us how they meant to use it. They avowed that their objects were national bankruptcy—confiscation of the soil—of canals—of railroads—of machinery, in short, the destruction of all property." "I was firmly convinced, and am firmly convinced, that such measures would produce indescribable misery to the great majority of the petitioners. I refused them the franchise as I would refuse a razor to a man who told me he wanted it in order to cut his throat." 878 "That your petitioners deeply deplore the existence of any kind of monopoly in this nation: and whilst they unequivocally condemn the levying of any tax upon the necessaries of life, and upon those articles principally required by the labouring classes, they are also sensible that the abolition of any one monopoly will never unshackle labour from its misery until the people possess that power under which all monopoly and oppression must cease; and your petitioners respectfully mention the existing monopolies of the suffrage, of paper money, of machinery, of land, of the public press, of religious privileges, of the means of travelling and transit, and a host of other evils too numerous to mention, all arising from class legislation, but which your hon. House has always consistently endeavoured to increase instead of diminish." "And that your petitioners, desiring to promote the peace of the United Kingdom, security of property, and prosperity of commerce, seriously and earnestly press this their petition on the attention of your hon. House." 879 880 881
 MR. GIBSON  wished to state, that the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs justified his decision on the Report, and on nothing else. [Sir R. PEEL: The Queen's Advocate sanctioned that decision.] Mr. Kinder did not ask the House for any opinion: all he sought for was the Report of Mr. Pakenham; and he denied that substantial justice was done to Kinder by the Mexican tribunals, in consequence of the system of bribery which was carried on, and which deprived him of all fair play. Those tribunals being tampered with was a case which demanded the interference of Her Majesty's Government, nor could he see why that interposition on their part could be refused.
 MR. M. GIBSON  supported the Motion of his hon. Colleague. It appeared to him that the reason why this Government did not interfere in this matter was, in consequence of some report upon the subject which had been received from Mr. Pakenham, Her Majesty's Minister in Mexico. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State did not tell Mr. Kinder that he had no claim against this Government, because he had had a decision pronounced against him by the Mexican Court, but interference was refused because of Mr. Pakenham's Report. Now, all that was asked from Government was, that this Report, which had guided the Secretary of State in his decision, should be laid before Mr. Kinder.
 926 primâ faciæ
 MR. MACAULAY : I would not, Sir, say a single word on this question, if my hon. Friend had not brought forward my name in the course of his speech, and if in doing so, had not, he must permit me to say, fallen into some mistakes. There exits no such connection as my hon. Friend appears to think between the letters which he introduced to the attention of the House and his Motion. Those letters were written by me at different times and to different persons. One of them was in answer to a private letter from one of my constituents, informing me of some scrupulous feelings which he and others entertained respecting the proposed calling out of the militia; and the other was written in answer to the secretary of a committee, asking me to support the Motion of the hon. Gentleman on this matter. I had no notion that either of these letters would have been published, though they were published at the same time; and perhaps I have some reason to complain of their publication, and especially that they should have been published together. They were published without my consent or authority, and not only that, but by persons taking the same view of this question which the hon. Gentleman himself takes, by persons who conceived that the publication of these letters might possibly be acceptable at the place which I have the honour to represent, but certainly not with any view to prejudice the persons whose case is now under discussion. With regard to the first of these letters, I mean to pass over all that has been said by the hon. Gentleman respecting his Motion in 1842, for an extension of the elective franchise, as I think it would be very much out of place were I, on this occasion, to go over all the grounds that he went through on the subject. There is not one word in
 889 890 891 Tom Thumb, 892 893 894 895 896
 MR. MACAULAY : The noble Lord will excuse me. What I said was this, that if the severity of the punishment in this case had resembled the severity of the punishment by which Monmouth's rebellion had been put down, that then I thought there might be some ground for Parliament to interfere.
 MR. WAKLEY  did not know how the hon. Baronet who had just sat down, was to be satisfied. He commenced by complaining of the manner in which the hon. and learned Member for Bute had addressed himself to the remarks of the hon. Member for Shrewsbury. He (Mr. Wakley) thought, therefore, that the hon. Baronet was so overflowing with the milk of human kindness, that he was about, in the most energetic manner, to support the Motion of his hon. Colleague (Mr. Duncombe). But the hon. Baronet went on with his criticism till he came to the speech of the right hon. Baronet opposite, and of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Edinburgh; and both those speeches pleased him, with the exception of one portion—and what portion was that? Why, that in which there was intimation of a merciful and humane feeling on the part of the Government. Was that the position which the Representative of the University of Oxford—of the Church of England—ought to assume in that House? He must say, that he was confounded at the spectacle which he witnessed; for he should have supposed that the hon. Baronet would have been the first man to have advocated the merciful Motion of his hon. Friend and Colleague. However, as he had been mistaken in that supposition, he should wish to carry the House back to the impression
 908 909 910
 MR. WYSE  was very happy to hear that there existed in Wales a desire for increased facilities of education, and he was equally pleased to learn that there existed, on the part of the Government, a feeling of anxiety to administer to the requirements of the Welsh people in this respect. It was impossible to overstate the value and importance of education. His own experience of Ireland enabled him to bear testimony to the great improvement which of late years had taken place in the tastes, habits, and feelings of the Irish people; and much of the advantage which resulted from that improvement he attributed to that organized system of education which had been recently established amongst them, and which might indeed be termed, with the utmost propriety, "national," inasmuch as that it was gradually extending its influence through the length and breadth of the land, and that its operation had proved in the last degree beneficial to the best interests of all classes of the community. It was not as yet, however, that the full benefit of the system of education pursued in Ireland, under the sanction of the Government, could be properly understood or appreciated; but when ten years more had elapsed, and when those who were now the boys, would be the men of Ireland, then indeed the advantages of a proper system of mental culture would be perceptible, not alone in the increased amount of information possessed by the people, but in their greater order, their juster regard for life and property, their improved habits both of action and thought, their more refined feelings, and above all, in that higher degree of perfection which they would assuredly be found to have attained in those moral and religious virtues which ought to be the basis of every system of education, and without which all knowledge was of little avail. The habits, tastes, and feelings of the entire population would be seen to be in the highest degree improved, and in that improvement would be found the best possible security for the future prosperity and happiness of the country. He most cordially concurred in the hope expressed by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, that the day was not far distant when a system of national education would be established in England on a scale com-
 867
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  was perfectly willing to consent to the arrangement proposed by the right hon. Baronet. The right hon. Baronet had referred to the amount of public money expended on schools in Wales. Now, it was proper to observe that during the last seven years no less than 285,000 l. l. l.
 SIR G. GREY  said, if the discussion were proceeded with, he should move as an Amendment, that the inquiry should be of a more general character.
 MR. M. PHILIPS  moved for—
 Copies of all Reports or Representations, by Richard Pakenham, esquire, Her Majesty's Minister in Mexico, on which Her Majesty's Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs has founded the decision he has given on the applications of Mr. Thomas Kinder." 924
 MR. M. PHILIPS , as the representative of a place from which petitions, signed by a very large number of his constituency, and praying for the remission of punishment to Frost, Williams, and Jones, had emanated, thought he would not be justified if he did not rise during the present discussion, for the purpose of denying that he had any inclination to treat with scorn or contempt the petitions of his constituency while giving his vote against the Motion. He believed he was right in the opinion he had formed on that subject, and could not act contrary to it out of regard to the opinion of others, who believed themselves to be right, but whom he was convinced were in error. He denied that in opposing the Motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury he could be accused of acting as a personal enemy to Frost, Jones, and Williams, as had been said, and repudiated the notion that personal motives should be attributed to the Members of the House in discharge of their public duties.
 SIR J. GRAHAM : I understood the hon. Gentleman to say that the purpose of Frost, in going on the night in question to Newport, was to make a moral demonstration. I must observe, in justice to the hon. Member, that he frankly admitted that those persons were convicted of a
 884 885 "The charge against the prisoner at the bar is, that, having broken the faith and true allegiance which he owed to his lawful Sovereign, he has levied war against Her within Her realm; that is, in one word, a charge of high treason. I observe that the learned Attorney General stated the case on the part of the Crown against the prisoner to be this—that the prisoner at the bar had brought down to the town of Newport a very large multitude of persons, armed and arrayed in a warlike manner; and that the plan was, to get possession of the town of Newport, to break down the bridge, stop the mail, and that, the mail not having arrived at Birmingham for some time, it would be a signal for a general rising in Birmingham and Lancashire, and the Charter law would become the law of the land. The learned Solicitor General, who has summed up the evidence, has stated the outline of the case, which has been proved pretty nearly in the same form, omitting, with great propriety, that part of it upon which no evidence has been offered, namely, that which related to the general establishment of Charter law. The Solicitor General stated, that the plan of the prisoner was, to get together bands of armed men, with intent, by surprise and terror, or by force, to take Newport, to exercise power there, to supersede the magistracy, and thereby raise a general rebellion within the kingdom. Now, there can be no doubt whatever that if either of the propositions which have been so stated by the law officers of the Crown is made out to your satisfaction, there is full proof of the commission by the prisoner of the crime of high treason." "It has been proved, in your case, that you combined together to lead from the hills, at the dead hour of night, into the town of Newport, many thousnnds of men, armed in many instances with weapons of a dangerous description, in order that they might take possession of the town, and supersede the lawful authority of the Queen, as a preliminary step to a more general insurrection throughout the kingdom. It is owing to the interposition of Providence alone that your wicked designs wese frustrated. Your followers arrive by daylight, and, after firing upon the civil power and upon the Queen's troops, are, by the firmness of
 886 887 888
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, he should be exceedingly sorry to be misunderstood by the hon. Gentleman, and therefore he begged to be allowed to explain. The House would remember that he deprecated interference with regard to this prerogative of the Crown. He stated the exercise—the spontaneous exercise—of it ought, in his opinion, to be guided by time and circumstances; and he went on to say he could not be responsible at the present time for any advice to Her Majesty to remit the sentence, but at the same time he thought it right to presume there was no limit to the prerogative of mercy in the Crown.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said: I should be extremely sorry if one word which fell from me on the present occasion were tinctured with the least degree of passion or acrimony, for I entirely agree with the hon. Member for Finsbury, that it is most desirable we should dispassionately and deliberately consider the proposition he has brought before us, without the slightest regard to party differences or feelings. I must say, on that ground, that I regretted some of the topics introduced by the hon. Gentleman when he weighed the probabilities of a question of this nature, immediately and exclusively connected with the administration of justice, being regarded more or less favourably by any parties who might happen at the moment to be the responsible advisers of the Crown. I readily admit that the number of petitions presented on this subject, and in favour of the Motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury, has been very large. I admit also that the memorials which it has been my duty to present to Her Majesty in the course of the last year were not only numerous, but signed by a very large portion of the working classes of this country. I must also add that the decision of Her Majesty's Government has been adopted after duly weighing all the circumstances of this case, with reference both to the nature of the crime, and the circumstances under which it is our duty to regard it. I do not deny to this House the competency or the right of interference on such a question; but I may say that I think interference ought at all times to be tempered with discretion, that it ought not to be lightly undertaken, and that upon the whole it is most desirable to maintain strictly the line of demarcation between the functions of the legislative and executive Government. It must always be borne in mind that the brightest and noblest prerogative enjoyed by the Sovereign is exercised under the advice of the responsible Ministers of the Crown; and I shall not shrink from my responsibility, as one of the advisers of Her Majesty in the present case. The hon. Member for Finsbury
 882 883
 SIR J. GRAHAM  thought that it would be the better course for the hon. Member to make his statement. He would then take occasion to explain what were his views on the subject.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said: I shall not on this occasion occupy much time in making the few observations which the speech and Motion of the hon. Member for Coventry have rendered necessary; and I beg, in the first place, frankly to state, that though
 861 862 "The Committee of Council, being anxious to give immediate effect to their wish to provide the means of an efficient elementary education for this population, are desirous to encourage the erection of school-houses, and the settlement of well-instructed and religious men as teachers of elementary schools, throughout this district; and, feeling assured that you concur with them in considering such measures as highly important to the future welfare of the labouring population by which you are surrounded, and not less to the security of property and to the peace of society, are disposed to offer you and the other persons locally interested, who are disposed to co-operate, their assistance for the establishment of a school in your immediate neighbourhood. "If, further, the means can be provided for defraying the annual expenses of the schools, so as
 863 "Considering the peculiar circumstances of the district, my Lords are disposed to exceed the usual limit of the grants made for the erection of school-houses, provided they can be assured, by the nature of the plan selected, the form of the trust-deed, and the amount of the annual income provided for a teacher, that the school will be permanently supported and efficiently conducted." l., 864
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, that his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Wortley) had called the speech of the hon. Member for Shrewsbury a speech distinguished by acrimony and party feeling. He denied that the speech exhibited any party rancour; and certainly no personal acrimony. There were two leading points to which the hon. Member had directed attention. One was, that the criminals in the case now submitted to the House had been misled by the speeches of persons high in
 906 907
 SIR R. PEEL : If anything could tend to strengthen my conviction of the impolicy of discussing a question of legal punishment, like the one before us, in a popular assembly, the speech of the hon. Colleague of the Gentleman who brought forward this Motion would have that effect. He says, the impression of millions of persons in this country is, that the sentence on the prisoners was illegal, and that if they had been rich enough to carry it before the House of Lords, the result would have been different—that they would have obtained a different degree of mercy from that which had been awarded, from their wanting that advantage. Surely if the question be one as to the legality of the sentence, this House is not the place in which it can be decided. Such a question ought to be decided by a different body altogether—by men of authority, eminent for their legal knowledge, capable of deciding whether
 914 "See what is the result of it. Several speeches have been made, the object of which was to throw impediments in the way of the Crown showing leniency to these prisoners." 915 916 917
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he certainly could not undertake to present the Papers to which the hon. Gentleman referred. The hon. Gentleman said that Mr. Kinder had had no reason assigned to him why Her Majesty's Government did not interfere, and insist upon the Mexican Government giving him reparation. The facts were these: Mr. Kinder had applied to the Mexican courts of justice; their decision was unfavourable to him; and, according to all the principles of international law, when the decision of a competent tribunal, appealed to by a British subject, was unfavourable to that subject, there was no ground on the part of his Government to interfere. The principle on which the Government had acted was laid down in the clearest manner by the highest authority of all the writers on international law—Vattel. He said—
 "As the administration of justice necessarily requires that every definitive sentence, regularly pronounced, be esteemed just and executed as such, as soon as a cause in which foreigners find themselves interested has been decided, the Sovereign
 925
 SIR R. PEEL : Lord Aberdeen's question was, "Am I, by the laws of nations, entitled to interfere and to demand redress from the Mexican Government?" The answer of the Queen's Advocate was, that "If there were evidence of palpable injustice being done on the part of the tribunal of a foreign country, the other country had a right to demand an interference; but I can find no evidence of evident injustice, and therefore, in my opinion, you cannot interfere."
 SIR R. PEEL  said: I thought the hon. Member for Manchester merely intended to put the question and receive an answer, yes or no, as to whether Her Majesty's Government would lay the Papers which he wished for before the House; but now I find that he has thought it proper to take a different course. He has in effect called upon us to sit in appeal and reconsider the decisions of the Mexican courts of justice. Now, with the leave of the House, I propose shortly to state the facts of the case. I know that there is nothing more inconvenient and objectionable than reading in this House the reports of law officers of the Crown upon legal questions; but yet I think the statement given to us by the Queen's Advocate cannot fail to be of some service in the decision which we are called upon to pronounce. This, as I have already said, is a question whether or not we shall sit as a court of appeal upon the adjudications of a Mexican court of justice. All the facts of this case were brought under the consideration of the Queen's Advocate, who states in his Report that a long and expensive litigation had been entered upon and prosecuted by Mr. Kinder before one of the Mexican tribunals. The Report of the Queen's Advocate is in the following words:—
 "Long and expensive litigations, involving questions of a very difficult and complex nature, have been carried on in the Mexican tribunals, whose decisions have not been favourable to the views and interests of Mr. Kinder. During the progress of the proceedings in the Mexican courts, Mr. Kinder sought more than once the interference of Mr. Pakenham, Her Majesty's Minister, in his behalf; but Mr. Pakenham considered, and, in my opinion, justly considered, that he was not at liberty to accede to the wishes and solicitations of Mr. Kinder in this respect. The despatches of Mr. Pakenham, upon which I have before reported, afford a complete justification of his conduct." 928
 SIR R. PEEL  recommended the hon. Member for North Warwickshire to adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman (Sir G. Grey), and make the inquiry general. He thought such an inquiry, if conducted in a proper spirit, would be of great value; for if the House came to legislate upon the subject of the registration they would find great difficulty in proceeding without some such preliminary inquiry. If the House would then permit the hon. Gentleman to have a Committee to inquire into all interferences with the right of registration, the whole question would be opened. If there were abuses they ought to be inquired into. The Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman was for a Select Committee to inquire into the alleged facilities afforded for vexatious and fraudulent objections to votes by the present system of registration.
 MR. WILLIAMS WYNN  said, he should be most happy to support any proposal which was calculated to encourage education
 865
 MR. O'CONNELL : The Roman Catholics were not obliged to take any oath which contained such objectionable clauses as that which required Roman Catholics to swear that they would not be privy to the commission of murder.
 MR. O'CONNELL  said, he could not help feeling some surprise when he beard the hon. Member opposite defend the oath of supremacy, although the oath had practically been repealed as regarded all persons who wished to avail themselves of that provision which, concerning that oath, had given relief to the Catholics. He likewise felt considerable surprise when he heard the hon. Member who last addressed the House, saying that he had resolved to oppose the present Bill. The general impression certainly was, that such opposition could hardly be considered consistent with the language held by the hon. Gentleman on former occasions. Perhaps the reports of his speeches were not correct; but he believed that the hon. Gentleman had been a supporter of the Free Church of Scotland. As the hon. Member did not contradict that statement, he concluded that there was no mistake in the matter. Now, it was well known that the Free Church asserted ecclesiastical supremacy in all matters ecclesiastical; and he could not avoid noticing the fact that a Gentleman who supported that principle should, nevertheless, he found voting against the present measure.
 MR. O'CONNELL  resumed: He expected that the hon. Member would have
 962 963 964
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , the sum of 8,000,000 l.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  thought that if any unpleasantness was attached to the subject of religion, it was entirely owing to the remissness of Government. The result of the Bill's being brought forward in its present form was, that extravagant encomiums had been passed by several hon. Gentlemen on the order of Jesuits. He did not think, however, that the Bill would pass the House of Lords.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  moved the Second Reading of this Bill.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, the principal object of this Bill was to simplify the mode in which the pensioners received their pay; and, so far from its inflicting any hardship upon them, it was proposed for the express purpose of promoting their interest. He begged to inform the hon. and gallant Member that naval pensioners were now enabled to receive their pensions while serving on board Her Majesty's ships. This Bill would not remove pensioners from the control of the Admiralty, but would place, the arrangements for their payment in the hands of the Secretary at War. The naval pensions would still be granted and withdrawn by the Admiralty; but the pensions would be paid by staff officers, who at Portsmouth, Plymouth, and other naval stations, would generally be marine or naval officers. He begged to inform the hon. and gallant Officer who had adverted to the receipt of pensioners' pay by boards of guardians when they became inmates of workhouses, that at one time a great number of the pensioners dissipated their pay within a few days after they received it, and then threw themselves upon the poor rates until their pensions were again due. Not long since no less than 6,000 pensioners were in this situation; but since the arrangement was effected enabling the guardians to defray the expense of maintaining such persons from their subsequent pensions, the system was nearly at an end. He would, however, propose that the guardians, instead of being empowered to attach the whole pension in such cases, should only be enabled to take such portion as was necessary to defray the expenses of maintaining pensioners who were inmates of
 975
 LORD J. MANNERS  thought his hon. Friend near him had asked questions to which his own speech had given an answer. He said the penalties on the Statute-book were never enforced, that they were obsolete; and then asked why they should not be maintained? He would answer in the words of his hon. Friend, because they were inoperative and obsolete. His hon. Friend had spoken of these restrictions as safeguards; but he could not see what safety was in enactments never enforced, and if enforced, would be so grievous, that even his hon. Friend himself would consent
 967 The Spectator, "There are two sets of Jesuits—the Jesuits of fact, and the Jesuits of fiction; and as there are more readers of romances than students of history, the latter are more familar to the public. The Jesuits of fiction will be admitted on all hands to be terrible fellows; but their proper place is in the circulating library, not in polemical and far
 968 "During the year 1845 we have given lodging to 2,758 poor distressed travellers and workmen. We have given portions of food to 18,887 in distress during the same year."
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  did not wish to enter into any further argument upon the Bill. He merely wished to make a few observations with regard to the penalties to which Roman Catholics had been subjected by former enactments. There was some doubt upon the question whether the penalties which formerly attached to the holding of any intercourse by subjects of these realms with the See of Rome had
 972
 MR. HAWES  said, the hon. Member (Mr. Duncombe) wished to include in his Bill every society not illegal. The right hon. Baronet said, that was liable to some abuse; but at the same time he proposed most materially to relax the law, so as to include a much larger number of societies. It was evident from the proposition of the right hon. Baronet that the law would be relaxed. This was an advantage; considering that a material relaxation had been
 935
 MR. ESCOTT , regretting the absence of the hon. Member for Kinsale (Mr. Watson), moved the second reading of the Roman Catholic Relief Bill. The object of this Bill was, to remove the evils still permitted to exist under the legislation by which, in darker ages, the rights of conscience had been invaded, and of which these remnants still disgraced the Statute-book of the United Kingdom. He acknowledged his deep sense of the honour conferred on him by those of his fellow subjects who had committed this work to his hands. Whatever objections might be taken to the Bill, he did not expect to hear it opposed on the ground that penalties on the free exercise of conscience in religious matters were necessary for the maintenance of the Established Church. The greatest danger, indeed, of that Church in these times was, that persons of high character and sincere piety should have room to say that the religion of the Establishment was only to be preserved by penalties for the sake of conscience, or that its edifice was still to be defaced by the legislative rubbish which
 936 937 938 939 940
 MR. B. ESCOTT  said, that an opinion had been lately taken upon the subject mentioned by the noble Lord, and it appeared that those penalties could not be levied. However, if it should appear that such, were not the case, or that too much doubt existed upon the subject, he (Mr. Escott) should be happy to introduce in Committee a clause to effect their total repeal.
 MR. B. ESCOTT  replied. He said that in this Act he wished to introduce a clause which would prevent Roman Catholic clergymen from celebrating any religious ceremony in any public place, and which would also prohibit any processions of Roman Catholics in any public street or way. He thanked the House most extremely for the manner in which the Bill had been generally received; and he also felt thankful to those hon. Gentlemen, particularly the Member for the University of Oxford, for the arguments which they had brought forward against it. Those hon. Gentlemen begun by saying that those Acts which were obsolete should be repealed; and then they said that if there were any statutes which were of serious inconvenience to any persuasion, they ought to be repealed. He fully agreed with them so far, and thought those penal statutes which were in existence were either obsolete or inconvenient, and therefore ought to be repealed. If they were obsolete, then they were of no use, and ought to be abolished; and if they were penal, then that was a still stronger reason for their repeal.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that, in order to form a correct estimate of the principles of the Jesuits, the House ought to know something of their specific acts, and of their members, and where they existed. He could not agree in the eulogy which some hon. Members had passed on the Jesuits; that some credit might be due
 966
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  could adopt, in reference to this measure, but one course, and that was the consistent course, and the same that he had pursued in reference to the grant to the College of Maynooth. He did hope that the hon. Member for Oxford would take a division on his Amendment. He would say that the Protestant Church was much indebted to the hon. Member for the great ability, great exertion, and consistency which he had evinced in defending it. With regard to this measure, he would support the suggestion of the hon. Member for Oxford, because he feared that, to leave the Amendment of the right hon. Baronet unsupported, would have the effect of undermining the Protestant religion in this country.
 MR. FINCH  said, that the copy of the oath had just been put into his hands; he was, therefore, not responsible for the error. But be the oath as it may, he objected to do away with all restrictions as to the doctrine of Catholic supremacy in temporal matters. He knew that the doctrine was disclaimed in every chapel where the Roman Catholic worship was performed; but a future period might arrive—and he could conceive the possibility of its arrival—when this doctrine of the temporal su-
 948 949 Hansard; 950
 MR. FINCH  did not wish to utter a single word that would be painful to the feelings of any Roman Catholic. He did not intend to go into the details of the Bill, because he was free to confess that some of the existing enactments required to be abolished; and he thought that remark would be applicable to the case complained of respecting schoolmasters. A great deal had been said in reference to the dark ages, and they had been told that the dogma of the supremacy of his Holiness the Pope had been confined to that remote period; but he entirely denied that such was the fact; for, however hon. Gentlemen in that House might repudiate any such principle, they had good reason to believe that it existed still in the minds of many. He could tell them where, as well as the authority he had for saying so. The late Charles Butler had informed them that that doctrine was entertained by every person residing within the Vatican and its immediate precincts. The late Cardinal Bellarmine had openly avowed that the Pope retained supreme temporal, as well as spiritual, power; and he, therefore, contended, that many persons of the Roman Catholic Church had the same opinion upon the subject. The hon. Member read from the 31st of George III. the words of the oath to be administered to Roman Catholics in reference to the subject of supremacy.
 MR. COLQUHOUN  rose amidst cries of "Order." He said, he thought that he had some right to complain; while he sat silent an erroneous construction was put upon his silence, and when he attempted to speak he was assailed with a cry of "Order." He felt that he should be out of order if he interrupted the hon. and learned Member for Cork; but now that his silence was misconstrued, he begged to disclaim such sentiments as had been imputed to him. He had no connection with the Free Church of Scotland.
 MR. COLQUHOUN  was anxious to explain the grounds upon which he should support the Amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford. He had not the slightest objection to those parts of the measure which repealed enactments that were characterized by bigotry, or that partook of the spirit of persecution. He did not agree with his hon. Friend that those enactments should remain on the Statute-book, in order that they might be evaded; which imposed penalties that were not practically enforced, because they were both unjust and impolitic. But he entertained some very strong objections to the Bill; nor did he think, because it might contain some wise provisions, that that was a sufficient reason, while entertaining those objections, that he should support its second reading. He thought the paramount part of the Bill—its purport and its design—was contrary to the spirit of the Constitution, and to that wise policy which ought to prevail, more especially at this time, in the legislative councils of the country. He would not go back to the reign of Queen Elizabeth, distinguished as it was. That reign could require no defence, for any man who valued his rights, and was a lover of liberty—any man who knew and read Spencer, or Shakspeare—any man who had studied Bacon, or the works of Coke, must feel that the reign of Elizabeth stood not in need of any defence. But his objection to this measure rested upon what he consi-
 958 "It is enacted, that if any person or persons dwelling or inhabiting within this your realm, or in any other your Highness's realms or dominions, of what estate, dignity, or degree soever he or they be, after the end of thirty days next after the determination of this Session of this present Parliament, shall, by writing, printing, teaching, preaching, express words, deed, or act, advisedly, maliciously, and directly affirm, hold, stand with, set forth, maintain, or defend, the authority, preeminence, power or jurisdiction, spiritual or ecclesiastical, of any foreign prince, prelate, person, state or potentate whatsoever, heretofore claimed, used, or usurped within this realm, or any dominion or country being within or under the power, dominion, or allegiance of your Highness, or shall advisedly, maliciously, and directly put in use or execute anything for the extolling, advancement, setting forth, maintenance, or defence of any such pretended or usurped jurisdiction, power, preeminence, and authority, or any part thereof, that then every such person," &c. 959 960 961
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  merely rose for the purpose of saying, that he had had the happiness of spending several years in the early part of his life in the company of Jesuits, as he had been educated in the Jesuit College at Clongowes, and he had never heard a word or sentiment from them that was unworthy of a Christian, an enlightened gentleman, and a loyal subject.
 MR. BORTHWICK  said, he had risen to seek the Speaker's eye with an eagerness, he feared, disproportioned to the importance of anything he had to say. His object, mainly, in rising, was to explain a word by which he had, he hoped not discourteously, interrupted a part of the speech of his hon. Friend the Member for Newcastle-under-Lyne. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Colquhoun) was at the time arguing from evidence given before a Committee of that House, that the Church of Rome authorized the interference, on spiritual grounds, of her clergy in the election of Members to that House. He believed, for his part, that such interference was contrary to the doctrines of the Church of Rome, as it was, indeed, to those of every other Christian church; but if it were sanctioned by the practices of priests in Ireland, he could only say that there was nothing in the present Bill which would either prevent or encourage it. The point was, therefore, irrelevant. Now, he would decidedly vote for the Motion before the House. He believed the Bill to be founded on that large and liberal charity which was the child of Christianity, and the mother of the Church of England. He believed he had correctly, though by a figure, expressed his view of the case. Christianity had introduced into the world a charity more universal and purer than was known to any other religion; and that charity had given birth to, as it sustained, the pure and reformed Establishment under which it was our happiness to live. But when he had said this, he had said all which he felt was likely to be very well received by the series of speakers who on either side had continued that debate. He liked liberality and charity; but he owned he was not partial to the somewhat illiberal—he would
 970 "In his port as meek as is a maid, He never yet ne villanie had said In all his life unto no manner wight, He was a very parfit gentle knight." Juif Errant
 MR. P. HOWARD  wished to correct an hon. Member opposite, who was wrong in his idea of the existing law in France regarding the Jesuits. The law did not expel them; but each community was limited to twenty in number.
 MR. MILNES  said, that so far as he was concerned he should have preferred that the discussion had been taken on the Bill proposed by Her Majesty's Government, because the present measure might perhaps be regarded in a false light by some out of doors. He should, however, support the second reading of the Bill now before the House, which he thought would not promote Catholic interests exclusively, but would conduce to the benefit of the whole community, by giving a large measure of toleration to all Her Majesty's subjects. He had resided for many years in Catholic countries, and had attended at the celebration of the worship of the Es-
 971
 MR. ESTCOURT  could not consent to abrogate those safeguards for the faith of the country which the Act of 1829 established. It might be said, that those enactments were inoperative, but at the time when that Act was passed they were looked upon as being of very considerable importance; and during the discussions which took place upon the subject his right hon. Friend at the head of the Government dwelt very forcibly upon the offence which Protestants would justly feel at
 969
 MR. T. S. DUNCOMBE , in rising to ask for leave to bring in a Bill to limit the hours of night labour in all factories where bobbin net and warp lace machinery is employed, begged first to present a petition on which the Bill was founded. It was signed by 3,420 workmen engaged in the lace trade; and he should add, that his hon. Friend the Member for North Nottinghamshire had already presented a similar petition signed by the masters; so that he was happy in being enabled to cite the present as one of the few instances in which the masters and workmen agreed in their opinions. The petitioners prayed that the hours of labour might be limited to from six o'clock in the morning until ten at night; that no children under eight years of age should be permitted to be employed; and that no person whatsoever should be allowed to work before six o'clock in the morning, or after ten o'clock at night. As he (Mr. Duncombe) understood from the right hon. Baronet opposite that there would be no objection to the introduction of such a measure at the present (although the right hon. Baronet held himself free as to the course he might find it necessary to adopt subsequently), he hoped he need not then occupy the time of the House longer than by barely stating the nature of the measure. It would be, perhaps, better that he should go more fully into the reasons for its introduction on the second reading.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he would not put the House to the trouble of supporting his Bill on the present occasion. He would accede to the proposal of the right hon. Baronet, to allow the Bill to go into Committee  pro formâ, pro formâ, 932 933
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  thought the difficulty of the right hon. Baronet, with regard to savings banks, might be easily overcome if the Bill were allowed to stand as he had introduced it, with the introduction of an exception into one of the clauses, saying that savings banks should not have the same advantage as benefit societies. He knew there was an extraordinary provision in the existing law with regard to the rate of interest, whereby savings banks received only 3 l. s. l. s. l. s.
 MR. WAKLEY  observed that his hon. Colleague (Mr. Duncombe) justly said, the Bill which he proposed was entirely gone. It was altogether dissipated, and a monster had risen in its place, which would affright the parties who had induced his hon. Friend to appear before the House. He (Mr. Wakley) was afraid the provisions of the altered Bill would be unpopular among the friendly societies; and he thought the right hon. Gentleman should not attempt to go into Com-
 934
 MR. WYSE  would for his own part have rather left the introduction of such a measure as the present to the good sense and sound policy of the Protestant members of the House, than that any alteration in the existing law should have been proposed in consequence of any unworthy complaint on the part of the Roman Catholics themselves. He could not help thinking that for the sake of the honour and character of the Protestant members themselves, they should remove from the Statute-book the remnant of that disgraceful code which had already been condemned by the general opinion of Europe. He would appeal to the hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Inglis), putting his conscience and his opinions out of view, whether, having surrendered so much of toleration to the irresistible demands of justice, it was worth while to retain these miserable old fetters hanging upon our arms, serving only to remind us of the wrongs of the past, and doing no good, but rather preventing the cordial co-operation of all classes to advance the general improvement of the age. The hon. Baronet had somewhat mistaken the stage of the debate. The House was not now in Committee on the Bill. It was not a question as to this or that clause that they were now discussing. The real matter under discussion was a question of public policy; namely, whether it were wise that any barrier should exist between one portion of Her Majesty's subjects and another, and thereby preventing a union of interests and of feeling arising out of the common rights and common enjoyments of the whole community. If one single grievance enumerated in this Bill existed, he thought the hon. Baronet (Sir R. Inglis) was bound by his own admission to remove it; at all events, not to oppose the second reading of this measure. For the hon. Baronet had stated that there were several cases of practical suffering on the part of the Roman Catholics; and he mentioned, as an instance, the case of Roman Catholic schoolmasters. But the hon. Baronet paused in his admission, and called upon the Roman Catholic Members in that House to point out instances of injustice having actually occurred. But he would submit to the hon. Baronet that the question was not whether any grievance had really occurred, but whether any such grievance might occur. In fact, the ques-
 954 955 956 957
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  briefly expressed his dissent from the principles of this Bill, as its operation was by no means calculated to benefit the interests of, or to give satisfaction to these veterans. He objected to the transfer of the payment of the pensioners of Greenwich and Chelsea from the hands of the Admiralty to the hands of the Secretary at War. These pensioners never would consent to be placed under the authority of the Horse Guards. It was
 974
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  said, that the Bill about to be introduced was in direct opposition to the rules which had always been laid down, of not interfering between the adult labourer and his employer. It was going in the teeth of all they had been doing during the last twelve years. He had another objection to this Bill, for it appeared that it would allow children of tender age to be engaged during the excessive hours of from six in the morning till ten at night; and he thought, therefore, that it would be but wise in the hon. Gentlemen who were about to bring in this Bill to attend to this particular point.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  had always had an objection to interfering with the hours of labour. The hon. Gentleman had stated, very fairly, that he had not refused his assent to such a Bill as this being brought in, particularly as that step would not hinder him from pursuing any course he might think fit on a future occasion, and as before the second reading he would have an opportunity of reading all its provisions, and of seeing what was objectionable. He
 976
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said: I will detain the House but a very short time in assigning the reasons which induce me to give to the proposed Bill my most decided support. I differ entirely from the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down. I support the second reading of this Bill because I am favourable to the spirit of it, because I believe that it is conceived in the spirit of toleration. I think the title of the Bill claims our support. The title declares it to be "for the repeal of Enactments imposing pains and penalties on Her Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects in consequence of their religion." Now, if there
 951 952 953
 SIR J. GRAHAM  by no means wished to disturb an arrangement which was so advantageous to friendly societies as receiving a higher rate of interest. He was most anxious that friendly societies should be encouraged, and that the advantages which they enjoyed should be maintained. All that he wished was to impose certain limits strictly in accordance with their objects, and for this purpose he had conferred with the Attorney General, the Solicitor General, and Mr. Tidd Pratt, upon whose advice he acted. Any societies not enumerated or specified in the Bill might apply for enrolment.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, he certainly thought that if no other change whatever had been made in the Bill brought in by the hon. Member than the introduction of a clause providing for the settlement of disputes by arbitration, which would save the expense and delay of going into the Court of Chancery for that purpose, a very great advantage would have been gained. The hon. Member had stated that the great object of the measure, as he introduced it, was to enrol all societies not illegal; but the hon. Member must be aware that the extension of friendly societies not illegal was not materially checked by the Bill as proposed to be amended. The House must remember that benefit societies had one advantage. The rate of interest allowed out of the public funds to savings banks had been reduced to 3 l. s. l. s. eo nomine,
 SIR J. GRAHAM  wished to say that the clause of enumeration in the Bill, as amended, might include all the societies now in existence. Mr. Tidd Pratt went further, and said he was perfectly willing to receive, from any quarter, suggestions as to the improvement of any clause of the Bill, fairly offered in the spirit of the measure. Any such propositions he (Sir J. Graham) would be happy to consider, and if, after consulting with the law officers, he found them useful, he should be disposed to consent to their incorporation into the Bill.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that since
 930 pro formâ, ejusdem generis 931 pro formâ,
 MR. PAKINGTON  said, he could not refuse his assent to the second reading of this Bill. He estimated the blessings of religion, freedom, and liberty of conscience, as highly as any one; but he thought it
 965
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that the experience he had had in the House justified him in saying that it was much more pleasant to make concessions than to resist them. Concession, however, he had not made, and was not prepared to make, on the present occasion. Whether it were to liberate the captive, or to aid our fellow subjects at the expense of the nation, or to remove obstructions to the enjoyment of certain civil privileges—in all these cases it was far pleasanter to give than to refuse; but he trusted he might be permitted to add this also, that whilst he admitted the pleasurableness of concession, he felt the higher duty of resistance on which he had hitherto acted, and was now prepared to act. His hon. and learned Friend had said that this measure was intended to
 941 942 943 Agnus Dei Corpus Christi? 944
 VISCOUNT MORPETH : As the hon. Member for the University of Oxford has anticipated that some Catholic Member will rise during the debate, I presume he has an expectation that some of his positions will be controverted. But as a Protestant Member of this House, I rise to express my regret that any attempt has been made in this stage of the Bill to resist a laudable endeavour to get rid of the last rags and remnants of bigotry and intolerance. The hon. Baronet objects to these enactments being styled relics of the dark ages; but at all events every liberal and well-constituted mind will admit that, if not contemporary with a very dark age, they evince a very dark spirit of bigotry. The hon. Baronet states that the object of the Bill is to repeal a series of measures that have been enacted ever since the Reformation. I suppose the hon. Baronet would confine the term "dark ages" to the years preceding the Reformation; but it is hardly to be expected that we should find these enactments of disabilities against Catholics at those periods when King, Government, and country were alike Roman Catholic. But,
 945 946 Corpus Christi 947
 LORD J. RUSSELL  apprehended that the right hon. Baronet would be able at once to answer the question he was about to put. In the Papers presented as the correspondence with Spain, Lord Aberdeed stated that it was intended to make a proposition to the Government of Spain on the commercial relations of the two countries, but he added that it was not intended to touch the question of the Slave Trade. The question he had to ask was, whether it was proposed, or not proposed, to admit the sugars of the Spanish Colonies as those of the most favoured nations?
 Mr. O'CONNELL  could not agree with the noble Lord (Lord G. Bentinck) that the best plan would be to purchase provisions in Ireland; for that would be to raise the price of provisions to those who wanted to purchase them, and make them generally dear. No: he could not but think the Government had done much more wisely. They had brought in a quantity of maize to replace the damaged potatoes, and caused it to be transported to Ireland under the Government auspices. Thus they certainly had added to the quantity. But he agreed with the suggession which had been offered by the hon. Member for Wycombe, in reference to railroads. Let it be remembered that these had to pay their deposits; he would not advise the Government to lend any money beyond the amount actually subscribed by the shareholders. If the shareholders in some instances had subscribed as much as 100,000 l., 985
 The EARL of MARCH  said, that though he disagreed from the general policy of Her Majesty's Ministers, he thought it incumbent to rise and state his opinions on the subject under discussion. The hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. S. O'Brien) had told them to-night, in the name of the people of Ireland, that he would not throw himself upon the generosity of that House. He entirely repudiated and repelled with indignation the very idea that hon. Members on that side at least were actuated by the feelings that they were "generous" towards Ireland in supporting the measures which had been introduced for the alleviation of distress in that country. On the contrary, they felt that they were doing nothing more than their duty. In the year 1822 a sum of, he believed, 250,000 l. l.,
 LORD CLAUDE HAMILTON  rose to make some observations with reference to the speech of the hon. Member for Limerick. He concurred in what had been stated by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government with respect to the duty which devolved upon Irish landlords of making local exertions with a view to alleviating the distress which was impending over the Irish population. He represented a county which possessed the advantage of a resident proprietary, and he had not the slightest doubt but that the landlords in that county, and indeed in Ireland generally, would discharge then-duty in a becoming manner, and act up to the advice given by the First Lord of the Treasury. He must vindicate the Irish landlords from the aspersions cast upon them by the hon. Member for Limerick—taunts which came with a peculiar bad grace from such a quarter. The hon. Member had tonight, for the first time this Session, made his appearance in the House. He had neglected his own duties, both as a landlord and a representative, and had devoted his undivided time and attention to the task of fostering a system of agitation most pernicious to the best interests of his country. And yet the hon. Member now came over here to cast censure on the landlords of Ireland; whereas the real state of the case was this, that if all the Irish landlords were like himself, all the legislatures in the world could not save Ireland from utter ruin. The hon. Member feigned a great anxiety about the Irish people; but he was acting a part hostile to their interests, by lending himself to that baneful system of agitation by which Ireland was convulsed, and prosperity rendered unattainable to her population.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  did not wish to detain the House by any lengthened remarks upon the subject, with respect to which general unanimity appeared to prevail; but as the hon. Member who had just sat down appeared to be under the impression that some unnecessary delay had taken place in carrying into effect the measures which had been lately passed by that House for promoting public works in Ireland, he felt himself called upon to say a single word in explanation. The Bill under which authority was given for increased grants had only been passed a few days ago, and no delay which was at all avoidable had taken
 1002
 MR. VILLIERS  said, one observation which fell from the hon. Member for Somersetshire (Mr. Miles) seemed to him so remarkable that he would ask the attention of the House to it. The hon. Member said, that it was a distressing thing that, while there was so much distress among the people of Ireland, we should be importing their produce. Now, he would just suggest to the hon. Member a mode of correcting this evil. Let them get that produce elsewhere. But it was the business of the hon. Member's life to prevent
 1009
 MR. STAFFORD O'BRIEN  trusted that the hon. Member for Birmingham would not press his Amendment. At the same time he must say, that the Resolution recognised a principle which by right should be extended to the farmer. Although the right hon. Baronet would not say when he would take off the remaining duties, he must ask what chance any other duty had of being maintained merely as a protection, and not as a revenue duty, now that the keystone—as hon. Gentlemen opposite called it—of protection was gone. The right hon. Baronet said, he expected to see the time when the manufacturers would come and ask him to take off all remaining protective duties; but even there he showed more regard to the manufacturers than he had done to the farmers, for he had not heard that the farmers had yet gone up in procession to the right hon. Baronet to implore him to take away their protection. As the right hon. Baronet claimed credit for being so far-sighted, perhaps he was also clear-sighted; in that case, the right hon. Gentleman would be conferring an obligation upon him (Mr. S. O'Brien), and his friends, by explaining by what process he proposed to distinguish buck-wheat meal from wheat, meal. He would challenge any man, even the right hon. Baronet the Member for Stamford, who generally saw as far into a millstone as any man, to distinguish the one from the other by their appearance.
 MR. T. BUNCOMBE  said, it would be in the recollection of the House, that he had presented a petition, signed by 500 of the paper-stainers of the metropolis, complaining of the proposed reduction of duty on foreign paper. It was but fair that
 1026 s. d.; d., d.,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. Baronet had only considered the producers, but the Government would not forget the consumer. By this reduction revenue was risked, but he was confident that it would be made up by increased consumption; nor would the increased importation injure the agricultural interest, for such an injury depended on the quantity produced at home, as compared with the importation; but when the quantity of butter consumed was considered, he was sure the hon. Baronet would feel that care should be taken that there should be no scarcity of that article. It was one of those articles which constituted a comfort of the lower classes, and no such importation would ensue as would injure the agricultural interest. When he resisted the reduction of this duty on former occasions, he did so distinctly on the ground of revenue, which was so large that he could not afford to lose it, but now that there was a relaxation of duties, it ought to be among the first.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said: If, Sir, one argument more conclusive than another could have been produced why we should have rejected the proposition of the Government in regard to this article, it was
 1030 s. s. l. l. l. Times Times 1031 l. l., l. l. l. l. s. 1032
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said, that that hon. Gentleman would have them believe that all the distress had originated in the pro-
 1041 d. s. s. d. s.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  was sure that no objection would be offered from any part of the House to any measure that might be proposed by Government, for the purpose of extending relief to Ireland; but he thought they were entitled to ask Her Majesty's Ministers to lay on the Table of that House the whole of the information on which they founded their proposition. He quite concurred with the hon. Member for Finsbury, in thinking that it was for want of food that the evil of fever was arising; and the best mode of remedying that evil was to take care that those who were in want should immediately receive food to relieve it. He thought the way to obtain that object would be, as he had stated on former occasions, to purchase Irish oats, wheat, and food of every description; and not to send for maize from the United States.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : The statement of the right hon. Gentleman made it desirable that some further and more par-
 997 l. 998
 MR. FREWEN,  in allusion to the remark of the hon. Member for Finsbury, declared his belief there was not a magistrate in the county of Leicester who would not do his utmost to carry into effect the law of last Session.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that upon the question now before the House, he wished to observe that he had consulted a portion of his constituency residing in Birmingham, because he had, of course, been desirous of not advancing opinions on matters on which he did not possess the opinions of practical persons; and he could assure the House that, day by day, as the measure was more fully seen, so, day by day, did the opinion gain ground that distress must follow, if passed into a law; and that those who felt its effects would not easily be able to recover the injury it must do them. In support of the statement made by the hon. Member for Birmingham, he would read a letter to the House he had received from a person to whom he had applied for information: not feeling himself capable of affording a practical opinion, he had obtained the judgment of one far better versed than himself in the matter. This letter, as he had before observed, would support the statement made by one of the Members for the town of Birmingham; and it had emanated from one of the largest manufacturers in the place, who said he had also consulted several of the principal merchants there, and their conviction was, that in those cases—
 "Where much manual labour was required, free
 1025
 MR. NEWDEGATE  did not know whether many hon. Members were aware of the fact, that contemporaneously with the introduction of these great free-trade measures a Bill had been proposed and read a second time for extending the operation of the Bill of 1819 (of which the hon. Member for Birmingham complained) to Scotland and Ireland. The course adopted by the Government was this—that whilst they brought in measures to expose our domestic industry to foreign competition, and thereby to reduction of price, they at the same time introduced measures restrictive of the currency, which would also depress prices; thereby doubly attacking native industry and the value of its products. He knew the subject was distasteful to the House; but he was quite confident that they could not fully appreciate the effect of any great measures like the present, which would cause a considerable reduction in the price of the articles produced by the labour of the country, if they looked solely at the question of price as a matter between the supply and demand for those articles, and knew nothing of the relation of the medium of exchange to articles which were to be exchanged; for price consisted of two elements: the relation of the articles to be exchanged to each other; and, secondly, of their relation to the medium of exchange—of the value to be given by each party for the use of it. Those who considered price without reference to this second element, saw only half its bearing.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, it appeared to him that the ideas of the right hon. Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. Villiers) were so concentrated on the one object of free trade, that he could not see any circumstances which might render its adoption more or less advantageous at one time than another. The argument of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton was, in his opinion, a perfect fallacy.
 MR. STRUTT  had attended a great meeting of the manufacturers of the midland counties, a few years ago, at Derby, at which statements were made as to the condition of their trade; and those statements were equally unfavourable with those the House had now heard; and yet the object of that meeting was to petition for the abolition of the Corn Laws, and the general freedom of trade. The ground the manufactures took on that occasion was this. They said—"We are now placed under certain disadvantages, compared to foreign countries, by the operation of the Corn Laws, combined with the restrictions laid on our trade: we have thus been, from year to year, driven out of
 1039
 MR. SHAW  thought his right hon. Friend at the head of the Government had
 995 996
 MR. SHAW,  in explanation: The right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) has misrepresented what I said. I did not accuse the Government of wilful exaggeration. I did not even accuse those who misled the Government of wilful exaggeration; but I said, what I am ready to maintain, that the statements as to the potato failure in Ireland were in fact exaggerated; and I am persuaded that the Papers to be produced by the right hon. Baronet will not change my opinion in that respect.
 MR. SHAW : I did not say that either. What I did say was, that the Government having been originally misled, had founded their great measure upon what I believed to be a false ground, and that it was afterwards difficult to abandon it.
 MR. BANKES  said, it appeared to him that there was now forced upon the attention of the House that which must have occurred to the minds of many people, namely, when the Government was in possession of that important information with reference to Ireland, and when they had it in the month of October last, surely it was their bounden duty to call together the Parliament in the month of November, by which course of proceeding those difficulties of which they now complained would not have occurred. Those votes of public money would then have been taken, and long before this time that money would have been transmitted to Ireland, and those beneficial measures which were contemplated would be now in operation. Instead of now discussing the consequences of the want of food in that country, namely, the
 1005
 MR. FINCH  said, if all the Irish corn were to be driven out of the English market, he did not see how the people of Ireland would be benefited by the prosperity of English manufactures. The great cause of Irish suffering was the want of a demand for labour; and the greatest curse that could be inflicted upon Ireland would be the introduction of the produce of Polish or Russian labour. In his opinion Her Majesty's Government had taken the fittest course in the measure before the House to remedy the existing evil; and though he differed with them upon other points, he considered that they deserved the thanks of the country for their prompt exertions to put an end to famine and disease.
 MR. MUNTZ  hoped his hon. Colleague would withdraw his Motion. He could not understand upon what principle they could abolish protection as regarded land, and not as regarded manufactures. He had told his constituents that if the duty on foreign corn were taken off, they would have to submit to the duty on foreign manufactures being reduced, or perhaps abolished. He had called upon them to deliberate upon the subject, and to decide one way or the other, and they had accordingly decided on trying the policy of reduction. The only fault which he found with that policy was, that the whole of the protective duties were not equally reduced, and upon that point he begged to ask the right hon. Baronet opposite whether he would take measures at the end of three years for accomplishing that object?
 MR. MUNTZ  wished for free trade in the true sense of the word, and thought that as the duty had been reduced on the manufactured article, the duty on copper ore, a raw material, should also be reduced.
 MR. AGLIONBY  was extremely anxious to say one word on this subject. He did not believe there was one English Member who was inclined to treat the question as one of generosity, or who would not be ready to go as far in kindness to his fellow subjects as the hon. Member for Limerick, or any one else. He very much feared,
 989
 MR. COLQUHOUN  was very much inclined to agree with the last speaker. This was no new case, for the same thing had happened in 1823; and he might refer to the experience of the Chancellor of the Exchequer for its effects, when serious famine made its appearance in the west of Ireland. They would find that the appli-
 983
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  admitted that his hon. Friend the Member for Limerick had spoken warmly upon this subject; but they must remember that he had come from Ireland, where he had witnessed the distress of the people, and where he had found no practical effort yet made to mitigate it. [Sir J. GRAHAM: Every application made from Ireland had been answered the very day it had been received.] The effect of that expenditure had not yet been made visible. The hon. Member for the county of Limerick had been taunted with being absent from his duties in that House. Those who uttered the taunt, ought to have known before they gave utterance to it, that if his hon. Friend were absent, it was not only with the knowledge and the consent, but with the full approval, of his constituents. His hon. Friend had been in that place where it was believed by his constituents his hon. Friend would best discharge his duty to his country. He had been present at these discussions, and was ready to give his testimony to the anxiety displayed by them in that House to relieve the distress in Ireland—that testimony he was bound to give, and he tendered it in the most unequivocal manner. His hon. Friend had spoken under a strong feeling, excited by the taunts of a paper against the
 993 Times
 MR. J. TOLLEMACHE  hoped the hon. Member for Dublin would press the question to a division; and if he did not, he should himself feel it necessary to take the sense of the House on the proposed duty.
 MR. HUME  said, the subject was one of very great importance. He was very much of opinion that it would require serious consideration whether they should make the whole people entirely dependent for food on the Government, or means should not rather be devised to find thom employment. In the case of public societies which gave relief to the entirely destitute, they had ample proof how very rapidly the number of claimants increased, and how unworthy of relief the parties were. He should fear very much that such a course would have the effect of lowering, instead of raising, the quality of their food. It had been said that Indian corn was likely to introduce a better description of food, and thereby to assist in raising the character and aspirations of those who used it; but he much feared, with his hon. Friend the Member for Wycombe (Mr. Osborne), that if they were to distribute it indiscriminately to those who were in want, they would be doing more harm than good to the people. Whatever measures might be devised, he should desire the Government to be very careful in their iniquiries, discriminating as to the application of relief, and chary of its distribution. He meant chary, not from any disinclination to relieve those who were really destitute, but lest relief should be bestowed on those who were not really in want, or were undeserving of it.
 COLONEL ROLLESTON  could not understand the argument that if the operatives of the hosiery trade had suffered so much under protection, the reduction of protection one-half could remedy the evil which all
 1037
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  observed that there was no measure which the Government could adopt with a view to relieve the distress and difficulty in which the Irish people were now placed which would not command his warmest and most cordial support. A noble Lord opposite had censured the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. Smith O'Brien) because of his taking part in the repeal agitation; but if anything could justify an Irishman or an Englishman in advocating the repeal of the Legislative Union between the countries, it was the contemplation of this fact, from year to year, that the Irish people were not treated as the English people were by that House. He put it to the conscience of the Members of that House to say whether they had dealt with the people of Ireland as they had dealt with the English people. In England the peasantry had the first claim on the produce of the land, and justly so, because their labour went in a great degree to create it; but in Ireland, where the agricultural produce was created by the toil of the agricultural classes in a much greater degree even than in England (for in England the soil was more indebted to the expenditure of capital than in Ireland), the population were treated with no such respect or consideration. In England the claim of the agricultural classes to food was—so to speak—the first charge upon the soil. No man could starve in England as long as means for his support were to be found in his parish. Before the landlord could touch one penny of rent for his estate, especial care was taken that the poor man should not be reduced to starvation. But this unhappily was not the case in Ireland. In Ireland there were many considerations which intervened between the poor man's claim and the produce of the land; and as long as this was so, how could they censure the Irish people for being discontented, and for complaining that the same measure of justice was not granted to them which was awarded to the people of England? The right hon. Baro-
 1003 1004
 MR. SCROPE  explained that he did not
 1010
 MR. P. SCROPE  would ask a question now which he had given notice he would put yesterday, when the House did not sit. It was this—Whether the measures of Government for meeting the impending scarcity in Ireland, contained any guarantee that every individual in immediate danger of perishing from want, should be enabled to obtain relief from some local authority, as in England? Every day more and more distressing accounts were received; and the right hon. Secretary of State would, therefore, not think it impertinent in him to inquire whether Ministers meant to undertake the responsibility of securing those who were in danger of perishing from destitution in Ireland, from such a calamity? Not that he considered it within their province so to do; but the course they had taken seemed to impose upon them that responsibility. He thought that the duty properly belonged to the local authorities, to the boards of guardians and the landlords; but Ministers appeared to have taken the burden off their shoulders, and to have put it upon their own. In England, if any such calamity occurred as that which now threatened Ireland, it would not be the duty of Government to interfere: the Poor Law guardians in the different Unions would have to apply a remedy to the emergency. They would have done so, no doubt, from the commencement of the winter; but in Ireland the case was different; there, the boards of guardians had not only no right to relieve the poor out of doors, but they were expressly forbidden from giving relief in any other shape than by admission into the workhouse. The workhouses were only
 980
 MR. OSBORNE  expressed his fear that if Government was to provide food gratuitously for the distressed poor of Ireland, it would, create a system of eleemosynary relief, which ought by all means to be avoided. He could conceive of nothing so mischievous as leading the people to look up to Government permanently for relief and food. He would rather call upon Government to provide some regular employment for them. It had been anticipated by many that a great deal of employment would be created before this time, by the Railway Bills that were passed last Session; but he believed it was a fact, that none of these companies had as yet put a spade into the ground, in consequence of the want of money. He would put the thing in a more tangible shape, and would call on the Government to make grants of loans of money to these railway companies; by which means they would be able to proceed with their works, and to give employment to the people. Of what benefit would it be to send food into the country, if the people had not wherewithal to buy it? He did not know whether he had properly understood the proposition of the hon. Member for Finsbury; but certainly nothing-would be so injurious to the people as to establish a system of eleemosynary relief.
 MR. BERNAL  believed that the present condition of the Irish population was in the last degree alarming and distressing, and such as to command the warmest sympathy of that House; and this being his feeling, he had heard with extreme sorrow what his right hon. and learned Friend opposite (Mr. Shaw) had said respecting reports being exaggerated. He did not require to wait until Monday next, as had been suggested by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, before he made up his mind with respect to the actual condition of Ireland, for he could not bring himself to believe that any Government would be so imprudent, so indiscreet, or so malevolently wicked, as, for the sake of carrying any party or political object, to play with such a topic as the distress of millions of human beings—distress, too, which verged upon the point of starvation, pestilence, and death. He implored of his right hon. and learned Friend to approach the consideration of this question dispassionately, and, throwing aside all party bias, to ask himself calmly and deliberately this question, whether, from his own knowledge of the character of Her Majesty's Ministers, he thought it likely that any of them would be so silly and so wicked as to mingle, for a petty party purpose, truth and falsehood indiscriminately in the discussion of a topic of such awful importance as the condition of our fellow subjects in Ireland. If ever there was a crisis which demanded prompt and vigorous exertion on the part of the Legislature, the present was that crisis, for the lives of thousands upon thousands were at stake. This was no time to quibble about politico-economic objections. The right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary had announced that he had learned from the reports of persons who were appointed to investigate the condition of the Irish people, that famine and typhus fever were rapidly approaching. This being the awful state of affairs, was the House of Commons to stand still waiting for the dilatory proceedings of railway companies, com-
 1001
 MR. R. A. FITZGERALD  observed that if his hon. Friend the Member for Limerick had expressed himself strongly, every allowance must be made for his feelings. If that Parliament sat in Dublin, and English Members came over there to press on the Legislature the distress of their country, he should hope, for the honour of humanity, that they would express themselves in terms not less forcible. As an Irish Member, he, for one, begged to thank his hon. Friend for his speech; and to say that he believed him entitled to the heartfelt gratitude of his countrymen for the course which he was taking, both in the House and out of it. He had heard it said that the distress of the Irish people was exaggerated. For his own part, he believed no language could adequately describe it; and he knew for a fact, that, in his own county of Waterford, there were 40,000 people with little or nothing to support them.
 MR. R. M. MILNES  would feel it his duty to divide the House on the subject. An unjust accusation had been thrown out against those on his side of the House, that because they were themselves deprived of protection they were indifferent about the interests of others. He was quite sure so unworthy a sentiment never passed through their minds. Before, therefore, they would give up the cause of the hosier and the handloom weaver; before they would declare their case hopeless, they should make an effort for the continuance of that protection which they now enjoyed.
 MR. SPOONER  objected to a reduction of duty on foreign buttons. He was of opinion that unless protection was continued for this branch of manufactures, our trade would suffer materially from German competition. He would not divide the House upon the subject, but content himself by recording his opposition to buttons being included in the schedule.
 MR. SPOONER  did not wish to press his Motion to a division. He only desired to point out the real aspect of matters, and in some degree to point attention to the injury which had arisen from measures that had hitherto been passed. He would, therefore, withdraw the Motion he had proposed.
 MR. SPOONER  said, that if the proposed reduction of duty with regard to articles of bronze of foreign manufacture were agreed to, several valuable manufactories in Birmingham would be destroyed, and a great many men thrown out of employment. He would move the omission of the article, and that the present duty be retained.
 MR. SPOONER  thereupon rose to move that the Resolutions be read a second time that day six months. He felt bound to make this Motion, because he considered they were about striking a fatal blow at the prosperity of this country, and to put at hazard the national credit, by the removal of protection to British industry—that system under which commerce, agriculture, and manufactures, had attained their present state of greatness and renown. It was under that principle of protection to native industry, that they had been able to compete successfully with foreign countries; under that system had grown up their ships, their Colonies, and their commerce, which had excited even the envy and admiration of Napoleon Bonaparte,
 1011 1012 1013 1014 Laughter, and cries of "Sir, we sent for you not to toll us of the consequences of returning to a gold standard—not to give an opinion as to the propriety of the attempt; but we sent for you to ascertain the best way of carrying out this object — an object which we have already resolved upon." 1015 l., l., 1016 l. 1017 1018 Corn and Currency: "It is impossible to establish a fixed protecting duty with fairness, when the standard of value is itself unfair. This appears to me," said the right hon. Baronet, addressing the landowners, "the very core of the whole subject—the point on which you have committed the most fatal errors. Yon have fought for high prices, and concurred in measures which render them impossible. You have retained your monopoly, but consented to a change in the value of money, which must destroy its efficacy. The ground which you still endeavour to defend is no longer tenable; and the points which you surrendered, ensure your defeat. If I might venture to allude to the conduct of the landed interest in this last Session of Parliament, I should say, that it affords conclusive evidence of the blindest adherence to the single object of high prices, coupled with an entire misapprehension of the means
 1019 "For it is well known, that in this last Session (1825) they bargained with the King's Ministers to support the further contraction of the currency, on condition that the Government did not destroy their monopoly by a repeal of the Corn Laws." "So far from urging the Government to bring separately under the view of the Legislature the questions of currency and corn, it was the decided interest of the landowners to have insisted on a careful revision of both these subjects conjointly. They are in themselves intimately blended; it is absurd to talk of price without reference to money; and it is impossible to alter the quantity of money without affecting prices. Disjointed discussion on these two vital points is the precise cause of the dangerous conclusions now sanctioned by Parliament, which threaten with ruin and degradation the whole class of existing proprietors." 1020 1021
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  thought there should be a great distinction made between the state of the trade and the state of the operative. Nothing could be more frightful than the condition of the operative. How came it to be so bad? Because he did not receive his full share of the profits. Did people suppose, were the duty raised to 40 per cent, it would at all be to the advantage of the operative, that while the master manufacturer received 18 s. s.
 MR. GISBORNE  did not rise for the purpose of contradicting the statement made by the hon. Baronet as to the misery of the framework knitters; on the contrary, he fully concurred with him that their situation could not be worse; but for many years previous he knew it had not been better. This knowledge he obtained from a long residence among them; and he feared that no measure could be introduced that would cause that branch of trade again to flourish. If anything could alleviate the misery which the hon. Baronet so truly described, it was, in his opinion, the opening of the ports, and giving to those suffering tradesmen food at the lowest price. He did not believe they were adverse to the proposed measures of Her Majesty's Government; he could say, that neither from his constituents, nor any other parties connected with the hosiery trade, had he received any remonstrance against those measures; and he was firmly convinced that the only chance left for the revival of that branch of manufacture, was the carrying into immediate and full effect the system of unshackled free trade.
 MR. WAKLEY  had expected that some Member of Parliament connected with Ireland would have followed the right hon. Baronet; but he could not omit this opportunity of saying that it seemed to him that prevention was better than cure. The
 982
 MR. W. S. O'BRIEN : How do you make out 400,000 l.
 MR. SMITH O'BRIEN  begged to be permitted to say a few words, but he was not going to reply to the personalities of the noble Lord the Member for Tyrone. He could not think of taking up the time of the House by observations of such a nature; but he would say, with reference to the expenditure of money in Ireland, to which the noble Lord had alluded, that the people who subscribed that money were the best judges how it should be employed. He wished that what he had said should be distinctly understood. He confessed that his feelings, in common with a large number of his fellow countrymen, had been greatly exasperated by the tone—not so much taken in that House as by the press of England—with respect to those miserable grants. But the fact was, that Parliament had only granted them 100,000 l., l.
 MR. W. SMITH O'BRIEN  was bound to say, with regard to the sums of money mentioned by the right hon. Baronet as having been, on a former occasion, voted by the House for the relief of Ireland, that, as far as his own information went, not one single guinea had ever been expended in the manner prescribed. He was also bound to tell the right hon. Baronet that 100,000 of his fellow creatures in Ireland were famishing. He had himself departed thence only a week, and he had more than once seen whole families sitting down to a meal of potatoes which any Member of that House would be sorry to offer to his hogs. Under such circumstances, did it not become the House to consider in which way they could deal with the crisis? He would tell them frankly—and it was a feeling participated in by the majority of Irishmen—that he was not disposed to appeal to their generosity. There was no generosity in the matter. They had taken, and they had tied, the purse-strings of the Irish purse. Irishmen had been taunted and belied by the English press; and now, even in that House, he saw something of the same character. But he would not dwell on such a topic at the present mo-moment: as an individual, he thought that the Irish people were themselves able to provide for the calamity with which they were visited out of the national resources of Ireland; and he also considered that, if the House compelled the proprietors of land in Ireland to do that duty which they
 988
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  wished to call the attention of the Government to the inconsistency which was now manifested in the working of the new Poor Law. The burden of enforcing the rate was thrown upon the Poor Law guardians; but no power was given to them of employing the people. In making this remark, he gave the Government and the House credit for their intentions towards the people of Ireland. He wished to see the land of Ire-
 994
 MR. ALDERMAN THOMPSON  considered the silk weavers, the hatters, the boot and shoe makers, as well as the paper-stainers and every other home manufacturer, would have equally to complain of this foreign competition.
 MR. WYNN ELLIS  said, he had presented a petition signed by 7,000 framework knitters, praying for the adoption of the measure of Government. He quite agreed in the statements that had been made as to the effect of those measures on the trade. In 1829 he had canvassed all parts of the town of Leicester, and nothing could exceed the misery and poverty which then everywhere prevailed. The tales told him were perfectly horrible: all this existed under a state of protection, the great panacea of the day.
 MR. GROGAN  objected to any reduction of the import duties upon butter. He said it formed, if he might so speak, almost the staple manufacture of many parts of Ireland, and that even with the present rate of duty the Irish farmers were barely able to compete with foreigners. How, then, he would ask, could they expect to do so when the duty was reduced from 21 s. s.,
 SIR G. CLERK  was not surprised at the opposition of the hon. Member to the
 1028 l. s. 1029 s.
 SIR G. CLERK  said, he had recently received a deputation from the paper-stainers on the present subject, to whom he had explained that what they had to pay in this country in the way of excise duties did not by any means act as an injury to them, in consequence of the extent of the virtual protection which their manufacture enjoyed. With respect to the bronze powder of Birmingham, it had been admitted that that article had recently so much improved that it was now generally used in this country in preference to that of foreign production. That body had also allowed that with respect to design, the
 1027
 SIR G. CLERK  said, that the House must regret to hear of the melancholy picture that had been drawn by the hon. Baronet behind him (Sir H. Halford); but they must still remember that this was the state of things as they had existed under a system of complete protection. The hon. Member for Leicestershire had stated that the number of persons employed in the hosiery trade was 100,000; and that, a very short time ago, they had exported goods to the value of one million sterling. [Sir H. HALFORD: In 1815.] That in 1815 they had exported goods to the value of one million sterling; but that their ex-
 1038 l.,
 SIR G. CLERK  said, the original Motion, to which the hon. Member had moved an Amendment, was, that they should take into consideration the Report upon certain Resolutions which had been agreed to in a Committee of that House, for the purpose of making alterations in the duties levied upon the importation of certain articles of Customs. Before that Report was brought up, numerous petitions had been presented to that House, setting forth the inconvenience which every description of trade in the country was suffering in consequence of the uncertainty which prevailed as to whether any or what reductions were to take place. He believed, though a difference of opinion might exist as to some of the propositions included in the Resolutions before the House, yet that with respect to the propriety of a very large proportion of those reductions in duty, there was no difference of opinion whatever. The hon. Member for Birmingham, the representative of one of the greatest manufacturing and commercial towns in the country, had professed to meet those Resolutions by proposing that they should be reported that day six months; but the main argument of his speech was that a great mistake had been committed some years ago with regard to the arrangement of the monetary system of the country; and he contended that a Committee should be appointed to inquire whether all the causes of the distress of the country were not owing to the measure of 1819? It was no doubt a matter of the greatest importance to this country that our currency and monetary system should be placed upon a substantial and sure foundation; but he confessed he was
 1022
 SIR H. HALFORD  said, that with regard to the abatement of duty on cotton stockings, from 20 to 10 per cent, the reduction would have a most injurious tendency upon an important article of manufacture in the midland counties. As the Representative of an agricultural and manufacturing district, and connected with land in the midland counties, he would oppose any abatement of duty on cotton hosiery. The present was, he considered, a matter deeply interesting to agriculture in those counties, because the operatives employed in framework knitting in the counties of Leicester and Nottingham, resided for the most part in the country villages in the vicinity of towns, and were dependent upon the poor rates levied upon land, and not upon manufactories, when out of employment. Thus, any abatement in duty likely to cause a less demand for home produce, would have the effect of materially injuring this important branch of native industry. He could refer to documents quoted in that House to show what opinion competent witnesses had formed with respect to the withdrawal of protection from the framework knitters of the midland counties. The hon. Baronet read a portion of the evidence taken before a Commission appointed to inquire into the state of the framework knitters in the counties of Leicester and Nottingham, and proceeded to say that 100,000 persons were employed in the manufacture of cotton hosiery, and that the sum of 2,287,000 l. l.; l. l. 1036
 SIR J. GRAHAM  begged to call the hon. Gentleman's attention to the Votes of the 9th March. On that day he would find the Return he moved for respecting potatoes was presented, and ordered to be
 1008
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : The hon. Member calls on me to state the particular sums that have been so voted. With respect to Public Works in Ireland, there is an absolute advance of 50,000 l.; l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. 987
 SIR J. GRAHAM : Perhaps I may be permitted to explain to the hon. and learned Member and to the House, what has already been done towards giving the people employment by Government and by Parliament. In the first place, I would answer the noble Lord the Member for Lynn (Lord G. Bentinck), with respect to the information on which we have called on the House specially to adopt this particular Bill. That information was only received yesterday; and I, on the part of the Government, shall have no difficulty whatever in laying on the Table a copy of extracts from this information. Even if the whole that we have received is not given, I am quite certain there will be more than enough to satisfy the House of the necessity for this Bill. With respect to what has fallen from the hon. Member for Newcastle-under-Lyme (Mr. Colquhoun), he has observed, most truly, that assistance was afforded to Ireland in 1832, partly by supplies of food, at a reduced cost, and partly by advances of money to public works. But, as has been already stated, the distress at that time was comparatively partial; it was confined, I believe, to two or three counties. But the difficulty with which we have now to contend pervades the whole of Ireland: it is to be found in every province, it is to be found in every county, it is to be found in every Poor Law Union, and, I believe, in almost every parish in Ireland. The course which Government has taken has been this. We have in particular parts of Ireland established depôts, where food can be bought at an easy price, at the very lowest price; and thinking, with the hon. Member for Wycombe, that eleemosynary relief ought to be avoided as much as possible, we propose to afford, to the utmost possible extent, either by means of public works to be undertaken, or by works already established, the means by which the people may be enabled to earn wages, and so to purchase food at the moderate cost at
 986 l., l.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  wished to answer the question immediately. Certainly, the attention of Government had been directed with peculiar anxiety to this very difficult subject. The hon. Member sitting next to the hon. Gentleman who put the question, had spoken to him (Sir J. Graham) upon the point about a fortnight ago, and he had then said that it was not the intention of a Government to propose any permanent measure for outdoor relief to the people of Ireland.
 SIR J. GRAHAM : I hope that, by the indulgence of the House, I may be permitted to make a Motion before it proceeds to the Orders of the Day. I ask this favour under circumstances of urgency. If the House had met yesterday, it was my intention to have made the Motion then, and it is for leave to bring in a Bill to make temporary provision for the treatment of destitute persons affected with fever in Ireland. Only yesterday morning Government received from the Lord Lieutenant a Report from the Commission appointed to watch the advance of distress arising out of the failure of the potato crop, announcing that, in all the provinces, almost in every county, and in various localities of different counties, dysentery, to a very formidable extent,
 981
 SIR J. HOBHOUSE  said, he had presented a petition from the mayor and town-council of Nottingham, which had been agreed to unanimously—also a petition signed by 12,000 of the inhabitants of Nottingham—in favour of the measure; and such was their confidence in those measures, that though they considered Government had not carried the principle to the full extent, namely, immediate repeal, yet, for the sake of the benefit which the measure would confer on the country generally, they begged that their own protection might be taken away. Though he (Sir J. Hobhouse) had received no communication on the subject, he was far from denying that distress prevailed at Nottingham. Since his connexion with that town, he had not known a single year, or portion of a year, in which such complaints had not been made; but this had been during the continuance of the protective system. There was something vicious in the system under which these attempts of the frame-work knitters had been carried on; they had been seeking to force a species of manufacture which could not be carried on advantageously under that system; and when the measures of Government were carried, they would at least have no more to complain of than any person engaged in other manufactures.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that the right hon. Baronet the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, had stated that, after all, the hon. Member for Dublin need not be alarmed, for no great deal of butter would be imported. This reduction involved the alternative, that if no more butter was imported than last year, there would be a loss of revenue; but if there was double the quantity imported, it would compete successfully with our own production, which was deprived of protection.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that when the duty received on buttons was 15 l. l. l.
 SIR R. PEEL  would answer the questions of both hon. Gentlemen. The first hon. Member for Birmingham had stated that if the protective duty on foreign bronze articles were reduced from 15 l. l. l. 1024 l.,
 SIR R. PEEL : I was sorry to hear the imputations passed by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. W. S. O'Brien) who opposes the introduction of the Bill proposed by Government, on the House, and on the English Members of this House more particularly. I think nothing can have been more marked than the disposition of this House to introduce and to adopt every measure which could, by possibility, mitigate the evils of
 990 991 992 l. l. l.
 SIR R. PEEL  remarked that the observations which had fallen from the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin appeared to imply a charge against the Government, that they had exaggerated the amount of distress prevailing, and likely to prevail, in Ireland. Now, all he had to say to this was, to express a hope that hon. Members at all sides of that House would suspend their judgment until Monday next, when
 999
 SIR R. PEEL : The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Shaw) said that we were deceived originally, and that we had not afterwards the manliness to acknowledge our error, but wilfully persevered in it.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that the proposal made by Government did not contemplate the admission of the sugar of Cuba.
 SIR VALENTINE BLAKE  agreed with the hon. Member who spoke last, that food was the thing required in Ireland. He suggested the improvement of waste lands in Ireland by the Government, and declared it to be his opinion that the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. S. O'Brien) had been hardly dealt with.
 MR. W. MILES  said, if the hon. Member for Limerick had been in his place during the late discussions, he would have found that every Member on both sides of the House had been ready to come forward in every possible way to assist the Government in providing for the distress of the people of Ireland. All the information the Government had on the subject had been brought forward, and Government had received the ready assent of the House in moving to take off the duty on maize and all food necessary for the people of Ireland. Moreover, he would tell the hon. Member that, if instead of 100,000 l., 1007
 MR. W. MILES  asked, if when the amount of protection was 20 per cent, Saxon hosiery came into this country, how
 1040
 VISCOUNT INGESTRE  wished to know, if at the meeting alluded to by the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Strutt), there had been a single operative present to assert the claims of his class; if not, and the meeting consisted only of capitalists, he could view the proceedings only as an attempt to reduce yet further the miserable pittance the men still had.
 MR. O'CONNELL : That is just what the Irish Members desire; but I must also remind the right hon. Baronet, that not a shilling of the sums voted for public works, or of the money subscribed for the construction of railways, has as yet been laid out.
 COLONEL AUSTIN  concurred in what had been expressed by the hon. Members for Sussex and Kent. The growth of hops stood in peculiar need of protection; and that it was totally unnecessary to reduce that protection on account of the consumer, was evident from this, that the prices had been moderate on an average. The fallacy of the right hon. Baronet was in assuming, that because 4 l. s. l. s. l. s., l. 1060
 MR. KNIGHT  wished it to be understood, that when the hop-growers remonstrated with the Government on the last reduction of the duty, they did so under the impression that it was to be a reduction to 22 s. l. s., s. s. l. s. l. s. l. s. l. s. l. s. s. l. s. 1061 l. s. l. s.
 MR. A. J. B. HOPE  said, he thought the present question had not been put strongly enough in favour of the hop-growers. Hop-growers were not merely agriculturists, but they were at once agriculturists and traders, and therefore might suffer the casualties which attend both the traders and the agriculturists, A bad crop of wheat or oats was a rarity; but the hop-grower could not insure himself from casualties even from one year to another. Formerly, they looked to a surplus of one year to supply the deficiency of another. They knew that high prohibitory duties would prevent foreign hops from coming in. The course of nature generally brought it round that good and bad harvests were just sufficient to make up in good years the deficiency of bad years, Any hop-grower having capital could sell his hops, because he was enabled to store it up to meet the demands of scarce years; but if the facility which Government gave at present were removed, that could not be the case in future. He thought there were peculiar circumstances to prove that hops ought to be treated with particular leniency, especially when they remembered that hop-growers paid the enormous excise duty of 2 d. 1063
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he was very glad he gave way to the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House, as he had told them that although the system of protection amounted to a prohibition, yet the effect of it upon the hop-grower was such as to make hop grounds for the most part losing concerns. He thought no argument could be stronger than that, for attempting some change in the system which had proved so detrimental to small people engaged in the growth of that particular article. When the hon. Gentleman talked of a perfectly free trade in hops, he should consider what the proposition was before the House. The Government did not put the English hop-grower on the same footing as the foreigner, but it put double the duty upon the foreigner to what it did on the home grower. The hon. Member for Maidstone had said, that were they not deprived of their present advantages, they could hold their hops over against a deficiency; but was such a mode of gaining a profit
 1064
 MR. KNIGHT  said, that with respect to boots and shoes, he understood that great distress had ensued among the boot and shoemakers, consequent upon the last reduction in the Tariff affecting these articles. He knew that many houses in London, which had paid 500 l.
 MR. ELLICE  would not go minutely into the subject of this debate, which had been so well treated by those better versed in details. He had always stated his belief, even from the commencement of the discussions with regard to the silk manufacture, that it would be necessary to take the utmost care as to any measures that were applied to that trade. He never thought, however, that it would be possible to maintain the prohibition which many hon. Gentlemen thought to be indispensably necessary for the preservation of the trade to this country. In the original discussions he had always hinted it as his opinion that the silk manufacturers ought to look for relief rather from the peculiar burdens which affected them, and not their foreign competitors, than to the farther continuance of any great amount of protection. They had first the benefit of prohibition, and next of a large protecting duty, and they found neither one nor the other any security against the inroad of the smuggler. The time had arrived when the Government of the country proclaimed a great relaxation of the duties on provisions, and on other articles which particularly affect the producers in this as in all other industrial occupations. His constituents, though
 1093
 MR. S. HERBERT  said, it was perfectly true that within the last few days a great number of applications from soldiers in the Horse Guards had been received, which had been correctly described by the hon. Gentleman opposite. But it was not the case that any soldier had, upon such application as stated, been informed that the parties alluded to would be deprived, after years of hard service, of their future pensions. On the contrary, every soldier, notwithstanding his enlistment might be illegal, by continuing in the service, would have the full benefit of his past services, and would receive his pension under the regulations that now existed. With respect to the request which had been made, that a claim should be advanced against soldiers who were about to leave the army, he thought that nothing could possibly be more unjust to the soldiers. Whether there were or were not in the army so great a number of persons as the hon. Gentleman thought could claim their discharge on the ground of this technical flaw, he was not prepared to say. The subject was one of very great importance; it was under the consideration of Her Majesty's Government; and, at a future period, he should be able to state what their decision was.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said: The right hon. Gentleman asked us, what our opinion is of the prosperity of any trade? I think we may say on this side of the House, that we think the best test of the prosperity of a trade is a general rise in wages; and we have it shown to demonstration, that in every branch of the silk trade the wages have been gradually reduced since the alteration of the law from protection to free trade. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Leicester admitted at once that the number of Spitalfields weavers had been reduced from 14,000 to 9,000, through the effects of free trade. I think that fact affords pretty strong evidence of the injury inflicted on silk manufacturers by the operation of free-trade measures. The right hon. Gentleman the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, in answering—which, in my opinion, he did not do in the slightest degree—the most able speech by which my hon. Friend the Member for Dorsetshire
 1094 l. l. l. l., 1095 l. l. l.; l., l., l. pari passu, 1096 s. s. s. 1097 s. s. s. s. s. d. s. s. d., s. d. 1098 l., l. l. s. l. s. 1099 s., s.; s., s. d.,
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said, that there were other gambling speculations going on in this country than gambling in hops. There was a little gambling going on in railway speculations just now; but he was not exactly of opinion that any trade ought to be put down because gamblers chose to speculate upon the honest pursuits of other-persons. He apprehended that the hop-growers themselves were not the gamblers—it was the London speculators who were the gamblers. It had been stated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the House heard from the hon. Member for Sussex that hop-growing had been a losing concern for some years past; but the right hon. Gentleman proposed a different remedy to that which he should propose. He should propose that the excise duty be taken off. He was glad to hear, in the early part of the evening, the strongest proof of the advantage of the abolishment of the excise duties. The abolition of the excise duties upon glass had brought a considerable reduction of outlay to the Government, by the employment of a less number of excise officers; and he thought they had a reasonable ground for supposing that one hundred excise officers might come off, and upwards of 10,000 l. s. d. 1065 s. d. s. l. s. s. l. s.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  had given notice to the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury that he would ask a question with reference to the discussion coming on that night. From a recent return to the House, as to the effect of the total abolition of the excise duties on auctions and
 1054 l. l. l l.
 MR. FULLER  said, to repeal the Corn Laws was bad enough, but to reduce the duty on hops was worse. It would ruin all the landowners, tenants, and labourers of Sussex and Kent, and it would throw thousands out of employ. It was impossible to estimate the distress that must arise. At least the excise duty ought to be reduced. Foreign hops would be sold here for less than they could be raised at in Sussex. English capital would soon be directed to the increased production of foreign hops. The repeal of the malt duty which pressed so heavily on the agriculturists and the country, would be a great benefit to the entire community; and the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) might recollect his own declaration, that the repeal of the malt tax must follow the repeal of the Corn Laws. The right hon. Baronet had represented that the hop-planters had made a great opposition to the last reduction of duty: it was true, and they had only agreed to the 4 l. s.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I shall not detain the House two minutes at this late hour of the night, whilst I briefly reply to one or two observations made by the right hon. Gentleman, in the hope that we may by one more effort induce some hon. Members to enter on the same side with us, and thereby become the advocates for the working classes of this country. The right hon. Gentleman in his peroration has laid
 1108 s. 1109 data d.
 MR. HAWES  would not trouble the House with any lengthy observations; for though he attached much importance to the inconvenience which delay would undoubtedly be productive of to the various branches of commerce interested in the settlement, still he rejoiced at it, because it would tend to show that the principles held by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government (Sir R. Peel) were safe and valuable measures, and likely to promote the prosperity of the country at large. He confessed he had looked forward to the debate of that night with more than ordinary interest, because he fully expected that the challenge which the right hon. Baronet had offered would have been met on the silk question. The right hon. Baronet had challenged any hon. Member of the House to instance a single case in which either the consumer or the producer had been injured by the withdrawal of protection; and he (Mr. Hawes) therefore thought that, in the course of a debate which had already lasted three or four hours, some hon. Gentleman on the protection benches would have adduced evidence to show that either the consumer or the producer had been injured, and that the progress of trade
 1090 1091
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that he did not think the principle on which hon. Members wished to uphold protection to agriculture, was at all applicable to the question before the House. He had received representations from his own county requesting him to support the Government measure of free trade. Amongst them
 1092
 MR. FREWEN  said, that the right hon. Baronet had alluded to the great profit which had been made by the hop-growers. It was very true that some large capitalists had made much money, but it was not the case generally speaking; for so great was the spirit of competition in this country, that the profit was lowered very considerably. The small hop-grower invariably lost money after a series of years, while the large grower made great profits. The year 1817 had been alluded to in the course of the evening; but there was a very great blight during that year, and therefore it ought not to be quoted as a precedent, as it was a very extraordinary year. Hops could not be grown, he was informed, under 40 l. l.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  remarked that the impression among those connected with the silk trade seemed to be that of deep regret that the Government felt it necessary to propose a reduction of duty upon foreign silks. Such were the expressions of the petitions presented from Coventry, even when in favour of free trade. The right hon. Baronet (Sir George Clerk) had quarrelled with the hon. Member for Dorsetshire (Mr. Bankes), because he quoted from the evidence taken before the Select Committee in 1842; but in his opinion the present discussion savoured very much of the spirit of that Committee; and he thought that the conduct of Sir Henry Darnell, who voted on the Report of that Committee without hearing the evidence, was strictly analogous to the present conduct of Her Majesty's Ministers. He did not think that the right hon. Baronet had proved that an increase of wages had taken place since the relaxation of duty. In his opinion, so far from there being an increase, there had been a very considerable reduction. How could those who were anxious for the relaxation of prohibitory duties improve the state of the silk weaver, by removing the slight protection that was at present extended to his industry, when their French competitors set the fashions which ruled the trade, and had almost at their doors the raw material? But they said the trade was at present in a flourishing condition. He would grant that; and in doing so would ask whether there could be any better argument for proving that protection ought to be continued?
 1087 
 
 In the ten years. Raw. Knubs, &c. Thrown. All sorts. 
 1814–1823 15,214,245 585,906 3,608,872 19,409,023 
 1824–1853 32,916,905 2,891,515 3,872,828 39,681,248 
 1834–1843 37,425,114 11,924,815 2,657,189 52,297,118 
 
 Total from 1834 to 1843 52,007,118 
 Knubs, &c., 1834 to 1843 11,924,815 
 Raw and Thrown 41,082,303 
 Total from 1824 to 1833 39,681,248 
 Knubs from 1824 to 1833 2,891,515 
 Raw and Thrown from 1834 to 1833. 36,789,733 1088 
 
 Raw and Thrown from 1834 to 1843. 41,082,303 
 Raw and Thrown from 1824 to 1833. 36,789,733 
 Increase of Raw and Thrown 4,292,570 1089
 MR. SHAW  begged to ask the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government a question in respect of the Bill for the prevention of crime in Ireland. The right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) had the other night, at the request of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. O'Connell), and contrary to the usual course, agreed to follow the precedent set by Lord Althorp, with reference to a Bill of a similar nature; and instead of reading the Bill a first time, as a matter of course, on coming from the House of Lords, to have it printed, and then give notice of the first reading. In that case, the Bill had been passed in the House of Lords on Friday the 22nd of February, 1833; and Lord Althorp at once moved that it should be printed, and gave notice that he would move the first reading on the Wednesday following, the 27th, and he moved it accordingly on that day. In 1833, Parliament had not met till the 29th of January. In the present year, Parliament met on the 22nd of January. The Bill passed not till Friday last, the 13th of March; and the question be (Mr. Shaw) would then ask the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel), was, whether in point of the time of proceeding with the Bill, he would follow the precedent of Lord Althorp; or at what time the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) would proceed with the Bill?
 MR. BANKES  said, he would propose the omission of items upon which it was proposed to reduce the duty to a very large extent. In doing so he would meet the challenge of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, who challenged any one to show that any material interest had been injured by the lowering of duty for any length of time. The right hon. Baronet assumed, not only that no interest had been injured, but that all had been benefited, either immediately or within a very short period of the time when such an alteration was made. He should have felt some hesitation in taking up a subject on which he could not pretend to any practical knowledge or information, neither could he say it was one in which his constituents were especially interested; but he felt for the many weavers whose interests would be injured by the reduction of duties, and he had obtained a degree of information which reached to a certain period, was full and accurate, and of an authority that could not be disputed. Within six years of the alteration made in the silk trade by Mr. Huskisson, circumstances had occurred which, so far from showing any improvement, evinced that inconvenience and suffering had been the result—in fact so much so that Parliament, then under the control of a Whig Government, felt itself constrained to yield to the demands of those engaged in that trade, and appoint a Committee to inquire into the subject. In 1832 a Committee was appointed, of which he was a Member. There were upon it twenty-three Members of the House of Commons, of whom as far as he was aware, only seven were now in the House. The right hon. Baronet at
 1069 "To examine into the present, state of the silk trade, and to inquire what effects had been produced by the changes in the laws relating to the silk trade, since 1824, and whether any legislative measure could be devised compatible with the general interest of the country, which would have the effect of promoting it; at the same time to prevent smuggling in silk manufacture, and to report thereon to the House." "Your Committee regret that they are unable to make any general or full report on several matters committed to their consideration; but the various interests included, and the extent of the subject brought before the Committee, as well as the great number of witnesses they had to examine, and the knowledge that many others still remain to be examined, compel us at this late period of the Session only to lay the evidence taken before the House." 1070 "How do you think the measure has affected the ribbon trade?—I think great distress has taken place in the ribbon trade from foreign competition. "Do you consider that smuggling has increased in this period as compared with the period prior to 1826?—Amazingly. "Are you aware of any manufacturers who thought well of the scheme when first proposed, and who have since altered their opinion?—Yes. I have reason to think there are several, and I will name them if the Committee wish (witness did name them). "What difference is there between the wages of the English and the foreign workman?—I should think the English workman has, generally speaking, very nearly double. "Are you not aware that a great number of weavers in Spitalfields are thrown out of employment by the same article being manufactured in Manchester?—I am not aware of that. "Is it not a fact, that taking the whole of the goods now made in Spitalfields, that a quality is made much better than it was a few years ago?— 1071 I should say not; I think they made better goods ten years ago than they make now. "You state that wages in Spitalfields have been reduced 50 per cent since 1820?—Yes; from 40 to 50 per cent. "Do you attribute that to the introduction of goods from France.—Yes; mainly I do. s. d. s.; s. d.; s. d. s.; s.; s. d., s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. s. s., s. s. d. s. d. s., s. d.; s., s. d.; s., s.; s. d. s. d., s. d. s. d. s. d. s., s., s., s. 1072 l. s.; l. 1073 Cheers. 1074 "That he had been a weaver for fifty-seven years, and he found by hitter experience that every advance towards free trade only lowered their wages; he would ask who they were who were now the leaders of free trade? Not the manufacturers, but great capitalists who could buy goods anywhere, and would buy them where they could get them the cheapest, never earing about the labourer. He would ask who were Cobden and Bright? Two men who had amassed large fortunes by getting work done cheap, and only wanted the repeal of the Corn Laws for their own benefit. But he was sure that neither the weavers, nor, in fact, any body of working men, when the matter was properly explained to them, would be led away by the cry of cheap bread. But then Mr. Cobden said bread would not fall much in this country, but would rise on the contrary abroad; but the manufacturers there would not raise their workmen's wages any more than our manufacturers, because their food was dearer; and thus we should make the poor there worse off than they were at present, and do no good to ourselves. For our manufacturers and capitalists took care, when bread was cheap, to make that an excuse to lower wages; but they also took care, when food was dear, not to raise them. Huskisson's measures had brought ruin upon numbers of poor families, and Sir Robert's, he was sure, would prove worse still. "Mr. Jones said he quite agreed with the previous speaker, and he thought the best thing they could do was to petition against the measure, because he was sure that they could not compete with the French unless we had taxation as low, and wages still lower. "Mr. Field then moved the following Resolution:—'Resolved that we, the weavers of Manchester, in public meeting assembled, are of opinion that the reduction of duties upon foreign silks will be a very great injury to the silk trade of this country; and we, therefore, resolve to oppose it by every legal and constitutional means.' He (Mr. Field) could also recollect the vast amount of misery which Huskisson's measure had inflicted on the silk trade of this country, and the misery and starvation which that measure had brought upon the weavers generally. It had had the effect of lowering their wages one-half, and Peel's measure would, if passed, do the same; and he was sure it would benefit no class of persons but the fundholder, the large capitalist, and the fixed
 1075 "Mr. Clough then moved, 'that a petition be presented to both Houses of Parliament, against the passing of Sir Robert Peel's measure, and instead of it to grant protection for labour to the working classes.'" 1076 l. l. 1077 s. d. s. l., 1078
 MR. REPTON  regretted that the right hon. Baronet had made this article the subject of still further reduction. The right hon. Baronet said, he regretted that he had not in the Tariff of 1842 proposed a
 1067 s.; s. d.
 MR. BROCKLEHURST  begged to interrupt the hon. Member. The article of bandanas were manufactured in India, printed in this country, and then sent to France. They were not the manufacture of Macclesfield.
 MR. BROCKLEHURST  said, the hon. Member who had just sat down spoke of the sons of a manufacturer being sent abroad for the purpose of being taught the modes of conducting the silk trade in France; and to his (Mr. Brocklehurst's) apprehension, by this fact the weakness of the argument of the hon. Member was proved. What would become of the weavers of Spitalfields until these persons returned with new notions of trade? The hon. Gentleman spoke largely of broad silks, but took a very narrow view of the subject. The hon. Gentleman also spoke of Spitalfields being under the direction of "brokers;" but he should have said "wholesale dealers," who, in fact, addressed language of this description to the manufacturers—"These are our prices: if you like them, take them; but if you do not choose to accept, we shall send our travellers to France, and supply ourselves from that country." In the town of Macclesfield was a population of 40,000 to 50,000 persons, and it was his duty to defend them on all occasions from attacks made against them. It might be argued by some that if one particular employment was destroyed, the operatives of that employment might resort to theirs. That principle, however, he disregarded. It was not possible shoemakers could turn themselves into milliners, or other trades make equally strange metamorphoses. The hon. Member for Leicester said, he wished men of capital would enter the silk trade, though he (Mr. Brocklehurst) did not observe the hon. Member showed why they had hitherto kept away. He supposed, however, he wished an inference to be drawn that protection drove them from that trade. If such was the intended inference, he could not admit its truth. He had been entrusted with a petition to present to that House, signed by a large proportion of the manufacturing population of Macclesfield, which clearly evinced the feeling of the operatives upon the subject. These petitioners stated, that they perceived with deep regret that
 1081 1. l.
 MR. ALDERMAN HUMPHERY  thought the proposed reduction would be advantageous to the public, and he doubted the accuracy of the calculations which had been made by the hon. Member who had just sat down with respect to the average price of hops in England. He recollected one year, the year 1817, in which the price was as high as 38 l. 1062
 MR. PLUMPTRE  said, this was a subject of deep and paramount importance to the county he had the honour to represent, and with which, of course, he was principally conversant, though he had every reason to believe that the matter was of equal, if not of greater magnitude, as respected Sussex and other hop-growing counties. In 1842 the duty on the import of hops had been reduced from 8 l. s., l., l. s.; 1057 l. s. l. s.; l. pro tanto, s. l. l. l. 1058
 MR. HUME  hoped the Government would not think of distributing food: what the Irish people wanted was employment. He hoped that no gratuitous distribution would be made, except in cases of very urgent necessity; and the line might be drawn pretty accurately. He wished strongly to protest against the idea of making the whole populace of Ireland a nation of paupers. Let employment be given them: that was what was wanted.
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, he had read the Papers which had been laid on the Table by the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham), and since printed; and the inference he drew from them certainly was, first, that what the Irish people wanted was not physic, but food, to prevent the impending famine, and what arose as a consequence; and, in the next place, that no time was to be lost. If they were to go through the debate on corn, and the Tariff, before they had an opportunity of discussing the question whether any further measures besides fever hospitals were required, the delay would be a most unfortunate one. He must ask the right hon. Baronet to give the House the opportunity, when the Bill went into Committee, of discussing whether any ulterior measures, with the view of giving food rather than physic, were not desirable. He should then move, either as an Amendment, or an additional clause to the Bill—
 "That, in order to avert the impending famine from the people of Ireland, it is expedient to enlarge the provisions of the Irish Poor Law, so as not merely to secure medical relief to the poor in the sick hospitals, but, likewise, by timely supplies of food, to prevent their being reduced to that state of starvation."
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department whether the attention of the Government had been directed to the facilities which the Irish Arms Act afforded to the ill-disposed, to possess themselves unlawfully of arms; and if the Government had it in contemplation to bring in any measure to amend that Act, especially as regarded the provisions for registering arms.
 CAPTAIN JONES  believed that no applications for relief in Ireland had been refused. In the beginning of January, the number of persons in the poor house, receiving relief, was smaller than it was at the same period in the year before, by at least five per cent; and it had been gradually falling off.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  was desirous of asking a question of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War. He understood that a soldier of the 8th Regiment had been brought to court-martial for desertion, and that he in his defence pleaded that, strictly speaking, he was not a soldier; that he had not been duly and legally enlisted; because by the Mutiny Act it was provided that when a man was enlisted he must be attested by a magistrate acting in and for that district. In the case he was mentioning, it appeared that the soldier had been enlisted in one county, and was attested in another. It was considered that this enlistment was not legal, and the consequence was that he was immediately discharged. It appeared that there were no less than 5,000 or 6,000 men in the same position. No less than 400 out of 1,500 of the Grenadier Guards had been liberated on that ground. Other soldiers had also left their regiments—for he could not call it desertion—on the same ground—namely, that they were not legally soldiers at all. Now he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War, what was the course of conduct which the Horse Guards meant to pursue? and to submit the question to him whether it would not be desirable to bring in a short Bill to confirm these enlistments? He understood that another course had been suggested, which was to compel the men who had thus been brought into the army to refund the money they had received, and to make them pay for their accoutrements. But that was a course which he believed would not be so effectual
 1047
 MR. WAKLEY  said, it appeared from all the Reports that the fever owed its origin to want of food. To provide labour must be a work of time; and he wanted to know why the poor Irish and the poor English should receive different treatment under the same Government? In England,
 1050 1051
 MR. W. SMITH O'BRIEN  said, he did not see how the reduction of the duty on butter, silks, and other articles in the Tariff, could have any effect on the relief of the Irish poor. He did not believe the measures of Government were sufficient for the purpose in view. Of course, after the statement of the right hon. Baronet, that he took on himself the full responsibility of making provision for the distress, be was not entitled to make any further observations; but he must enter his protest against the House considering anything of more importance than the relief of the Irish destitute poor.
 MR. W. SMITH O'BRIEN  said, his object was not so much to discuss the Bill, as to call the attention of the House to the measures which were required on other grounds than the representations of Government. The obvious course to be adopted was that recommended by the hon. Member for Finsbury, to send the starving people supplies of food, and thereby avert the necessity of sending them physic.
 MR. W. SMITH O'BRIEN  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, who had brought in a Bill with reference to the fever prevailing in Ireland, whether he had any objection to state when the discussion on that Bill would be taken, and whether the second reading, which was fixed for this evening, would come on.
 MR. W. ELLIS  assured the hon. Member that Indian bandanas were not only printed in this country, but also that his (Mr. Brocklehurst's) own cloths were printed, and then sent into France, through Belgium. He admitted that there had been a diminution in the wages of the operatives within the last few years; but that, he contended, would have occurred had the system of protection been continued. If
 1080
 MR. WYNN ELLIS  said he had been a Member of the Committee of 1833, to which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bankes) had referred, and that he had taken the part of the operatives in the silk trade during that investigation. He gave the hon. Member credit for sincerity; but he begged to remind him that the question was not whether we could return to the old system of prohibition. That was quite impossible. It was assumed that if we did, the former rate of wages might still be obtained; but he apprehended no such result would follow, the competition for employment being too great. The hon. Gentleman said he did not know what had become of the silk trade that had left Spitalfields; and he asked where it was gone? He was sorry to say that since 1832 the number of parties engaged in the silk trade in Spitalfields had been reduced from 14,000 to 9,000. It was also assumed, and it was quite true, that if you admitted the silks of France, the whole of the very superior fabrics would come from that country. That was the case undoubtedly; and it would be so for some time yet, because in France there was a richer description of
 1079
 SIR G. CLERK  was sorry if any injury had been done to the straw-plait manufacturers by the measure of 1842. At that
 1068 s. d. s. d., s. d.; s.;
 SIR G. CLERK  said, that the hon. Member for Dorsetshire had, at the commencement of his speech, promised to show that the silk trade was a case in which not only temporary but permanent injury had been inflicted, by the alterations in our fiscal system which had taken place in 1824 and 1825. The hon. Member had entirely rested his statement on the evidence taken before the Select Committee of 1832, of which he was a Member; and the hon. Member wished to make it appear that the Government of that day had felt such doubts as to the expediency of retaining the new system which had been introduced two years previously, that they willingly consented to inquiry. But the then Vice-President of the Board of Trade, the late Lord Sydenham, distinctly stated to the House that he went into the Committee, not entertaining the slightest doubt of the soundness of Mr. Huskisson's policy;
 1082 s. d. 1083 1084 s. d. s. s. 1085 ad valorem 1086 ad valorem
 SIR J. GRAHAM : What the Government proposes to do is to give them labour whereby an opportunity will be afforded them of obtaining wages; and in addition to that, facilities will also be given them for obtaining food for the wages so earned, at a very reasonable price.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  was understood to say that he really hoped the second reading of this Bill would come on to-night, even if it were after twelve o'clock. He hoped the hon. Member would allow the second reading of the Bill to proceed. It was his earnest desire to give the House the fullest opportunity of discussing the Bill.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that the documents which the hon. Member had referred
 1049
 SIR J. GRAHAM  was understood to observe, that the Irish Arms Act would expire in the course of the present Session. He certainly admitted that all the benefit anticipated from the passing of that Act had not been realized; nor was it, on the other hand, attended with the evils that
 1045
 SIR R. PEEL  believed, that, on the occasion referred to by the right hon. and learned Gentleman, the Secretary of State for the Home Department introduced the Bill, and immediately moved that it should be printed. It was true that in answer to a question put by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Cork, the other evening, he stated that he thought it desirable that the precedent which had been so recently established should in the present case be followed. He also stated that it was his earnest wish to name the earliest day for the consideration of this measure. But the right hon. Gentleman must have heard the prayer of the petition which he presented this very evening, stating that
 1046
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, I do hope that the House will not be led into a debate, the effect of which must necessarily be to postpone the consideration of that measure which it is understood is to occupy our attention this evening. The hon. Gentleman and the House will recollect that the Tariff provides for the remission or the repeal of duty on many articles of subsistence—and that, so soon as the Tariff shall have received the sanction of this House, that is to say, so soon as the Resolutions affirmed by the Committee shall have been reported, there will be the opportunity on the part of the Government, with respect to every article excepting those in the Corn Bill, of immediately making an order for remitting the duty on those articles in bond. Therefore, the more haste we can make in passing the Tariff, the more are we prepared to provide the people of Ireland with free access to many articles of subsistence; and I do hope, therefore, that however important or interesting this subject may be, the House will not allow itself to be led away from the debate which is immediately
 1052 1053
 SIR R. PEEL : Perhaps the House will recollect that when I proposed the entire reduction of the auctions and glass duties, I gave as a reason for the total reduction of those duties not only the immense advantage that there would be in the case of the excise duties on the total abolition of all interference with the ordinary course of business by the Excise, thus permitting the freest scope to the ingenuity, and skill, and capital of all men engaged, and all others who might be inclined to engage in the manufacture of glass; but I stated that there would also be this advantage from the total repeal of the existing excise duty, namely, that you could altogether dispense with that establishment of excise officers who have been employed in the superintendence of the trade and the duties. And that result has followed in the case of the auction and glass duties. My noble Friend has quoted, very correctly, the number of officers whose services have been dispensed with, and the saving that has been made upon their salaries; and I must say, that that document is a conclusive proof of the advantage, when the revenue will admit of it, of making a total reduction of certain duties, rather than in spreading your reductions over many, which continues the interference of the Excise with the ordinary occupations of manufacturers, and also makes it necessary to keep up nearly the same amount of officers for the purpose of superintending the trade and collecting a diminished amount of revenue; and, therefore, Sir, I think nothing can be more satisfactory than that document, in so far as the excise is concerned. Then my noble Friend asks me this question: as customs duties, of at least an equal amount, have been either materially
 1055 1056 
 
 Ports. Years. Ships with cargoes from foreign ports. Number of entries. 
 London 1842 6370 484,000 
 1845 7521 567,000 
 Liverpool 1842 3285 188,000 
 1845 3900 220,000 
 Newcastle 1842 612 22,000 
 1845 908 30,000 
 Dublin 1842 261 21,700 
 1845 307 30,219 
 Dundee 1842 312 7,700 
 1845 415 9,600 
 Glasgow 1842 280 22,000 
 1845 418 30,700
 SIR R. PEEL  did not know that he could add anything to that which he stated when this subject was brought under consideration by the hon. Member for Sussex, in the year 1842. It was stated that the duty being 9 l. l. s. d. l. l. l. l. s., l. l. s. 1059 l.
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, I hope that any parties who may have to exercise a judgment upon the principles of commercial policy which it may be advantageous to apply to the silk trade, will maturely consider the facts that are within their reach before they come to any conclusion upon the mere impulse of feeling; that they will take the opportunity of contrasting the state of things which has arisen, not under a system of free trade, as my noble Friend has assumed, but since the repeal of prohibition and the admission of foreign silks to a qualified competition with domestic produce—with the state of things which presented itself during that happy period when, so far as the law was concerned, you had absolute and unqualified protection. You have the opportunity of ascertaining what were the results of unqualified legal and nominal protection in that most favoured seat—I mean so far as law can favour it—of Spitalfields. You had there complete prohibition of foreign manufactures; you relied upon laws prohibiting the import of those manufactures. Not only were the duties high, but they were absolutely prohibitory. Your policy was prohibition. Well, what was the state of things there under prohibition? Do you wish to revert to it? Do you believe that it would be for the interest of the working classes, for the interest of morality—do you believe that it would protect the females to whom my noble Friend has in the last part of his speech referred, from the temptations and dangers of prostitution? In Spitalfields what was the state of commerce? Why, periodically and in rapid succession, there were presented examples of suffering and vice which I defy you to parallel by anything that has taken place since the removal of prohibition. I begin with the year 1806; in that year a letter was written by Mr. Hale, a gentleman well acquainted with the state of Spitalfields, addressed to Mr. Whitbread, calling on him to make an appeal to the Legislature against the state of things existing in that district. Six years afterwards, in 1812, such was the condition of that district, that it became necessary to appoint a local committee; and the report of that committee, made at a subsequent period, in referring to the attempts made to relieve the distress, states—
 "When a depression in trade materially diminishes the demand for labour, multitudes are at once deprived of employment, and suffer all the miseries of want. The applications to the parishes for support soon become more than they can relieve.
 1101 "They are inoffensive," they say, "and quiet in their demeanour, industrious in prosperous times, and peaceable in adversity." "Of this class nearly two-thirds are at this time unemployed, and without the means of support; as well as a multitude of porters, labourers, and mechanics in different trades. They cannot disperse themselves in the country, which is already overburdened with poor, and where, at former times of difficulty, temporary work might have been obtained; numbers of old hands are now dismissed. Even the resource of the army and navy no longer exists for the destitute; and many are refused admission at the workhouses, which are too crowded to receive them. In order the better to assist the most afflicting cases, as more than 100 members compose the committee, they have divided themselves into thirty-eight sub-committees, each of which undertakes the visiting of a district. During the last eleven weeks, they have paid more than 8,460 visits, and distributed 856 l., s. s., 1102 "We have all been educated in the belief that the necessity of going to the workhouse is the limit of human distress to the poor, yet such is the aggravated state of distress, that going to the workhouse is an object of absolute desire to the poor, and we are actually canvassed for our interest in their favour." "One of the causes of the distress under which Spitalfields is labouring, is the importation of French goods, and the wearing of them by the ladies of this town. If you will accompany us through those scenes of destitution and distress, at least we shall gain this advantage, that we shall discourage the use of contraband goods which destroy the means of subsistence of the inhabitants of Spitalfields"— "Throughout the entire district a general scarcity of hands is noticed, and a consequent rise of wages. In the silk districts particularly, hands are very scarce, and I have been informed that instances are not wanting where children working half time have got as much wages, and in some cases it is said that they get more, than they did when they worked ten hours. I am told that a rise has also taken place in the wages of those who work ten and twelve hours respectively." 1103 1104 1105 1106 "That if a small duty only were levied on organzine silk, our manufactures would have nothing to dread from the competition of French silk, and that, even if the duty were reduced to 12 or 15 per cent, a considerable augmentation of exports might be reasonably expected." 1107
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  said, that there was nothing which gave so much encouragement to crime as drink. A work upon the subject, which he held in his hand, stated that in Scotland at least four-fifths of the crime committed in that country had originated in the effects of drink. He really thought the Government should not reduce still further the duties on foreign spirits. He felt at a loss to know upon what arguments this measure would be carried. He thought it was clear that if the duties were reduced from 22 s. s.
 MR. CARDWBLL  said, that, looking at the question as one of revenue, experience had shown that they could not double the amount paid into the Exchequer by doubling the amount of duty. There were historical authorities to justify a conclusion as to the probable result of a diminution of the duty on spirits. Was the hon. Member for Westmoreland (Mr. Alderman Thompson) aware that, by a Return which was presented to Parliament in the last Session, and which had been circulated amongst the Members, it appeared that the ordinary consumption of French brandy in this country at the close of the last century was, notwithstanding the enormous increase of our population and the still greater increase of our wealth, actually more than the quantity which was now upon an average retained for the home consumption? The hon. Gentleman said that the proposed alteration of the duty would not prevent smuggling; but practical authorities had come to quite a different conclusion. The Commissioners who were formerly appointed to consider the state of the revenue with regard to the excise duty upon spirits in Ireland and Scotland, stated in their Report, that in 1811, when
 1133 s. d. s. d., l.; l.
 MR. KNIGHT  said, that the maker of British brandy would be contented to go on, even with reduced profits, if so great a burden as the excise duties were not placed on him; but at the present time it
 1134
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, his hon. Friend had charged him with showing his ignorance of practical agriculture. Now, he must say, that he did not profess to have much practical knowledge of that art; but it would be in the recollection of the House, that last Session the hon. Member for Northamptonshire had brought in a Bill to allow farmers to use malt for fattening their cattle; and at that time it was stated that great doubts were entertained whether malt was better for cattle than raw barley; and great authorities were produced to show that raw barley would fatten cattle sooner, and cause them to yield more milk than feeding them on malt would do. At that time he entered into an engagement
 1147 l. s.
 SIR J. TYRRELL  said, the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down would wish to be believed that he was a practical farmer—[The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: No!]—or, at any rate, he would wish them to be of the opinion that he had given the House a practical statement, as to what was not good for the fattening of cattle. His hon. Friends had not at their command so many learned professors as the right hon. Baronet had; but if the opinions of those learned professors on the subject of fattening cattle with malt, had no greater weight with the country than the report of another learned Commission, on the potato disease in Ireland, then the statement of the right hon. Gentleman would require greater confirmation than he had yet offered to the House. He believed the real facts of the case were, that when malt was mixed with other grain, it made the cattle thirsty, and thus made them what was called "do better," or fatten better, than when fed on raw barley. But he chiefly rose to answer an observation of the right hon. Baronet, who had been pleased to triumph over the hon. Member for Somerset, because his predictions as to the mass of pork which would be brought from America had not been fulfilled. Now he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet if he was not answerable for the falling-off in the supply of British cattle, by the introduction, by means of his Tariff, of diseased foreign cattle? He knew he might not have any great character for agricultural knowledge in this House; but he would confidently repeat his statement, that the introduction of foreign cattle which had previously been prohibited, did bring disease into this country, particularly that which was known by the name of the lungs disease, and which had been most fatal in its ravages on cattle. He must, therefore, state to the right hon. Baronet, that the panic caused by his Tariff prevented growers from breeding cattle; that the introduction of disease had cut off many of those which were bred; and that these causes had combined to bring about the increased price of food. There was another cause which the right hon. Baronet would admit had caused an increase in the consumption of meat in this country—he meant the making of railways. Now, he did not believe that the right hon. Baronet would take credit to himself for that prosperity, and yet it had exercised much influence upon the consumption and the price of food.
 MR. VILLIERS  said, the hon. Baronet (Sir J. Tyrrell) was innocent of having produced the panic of which he complained when the last Tariff was passed; for if he remembered rightly the hon. Baronet had addressed his constituents on the occasion, giving them the benefit of his practical knowledge on the subject, and which was certainly calculated to allay their fears, for he assured them that he knew that foreign sheep were of that description that any body could read the newspapers clearly through them, and that more than half the pork would be choked on the voyage. Now as they had not much benefit as yet from the Tariff, he was not prepared to say that the hon. Baronet's information was not correct. If such, however, was the case, why should the hon. Baronet be so much alarmed now; and if the panic was such an evil, why should the hon. Baronet endeavour to produce it; and if it did exist, he asked who produced it? Why, he did not hesitate to say it was the hon. Gentlemen opposite; it was just such speeches as they had heard from the hon. Member for Somerset and the hon. Baronet that produced a panic. This was a matter worthy of notice; for if it was impossible to draw their attention to the great interest the people had in the abundance of the necessaries of life, and that nothing could induce them to withdraw their opposition on that ground—let them reflect upon the injury they were inflicting on the very interest that they represented. What was the effect of predicting calamity to follow from this measure? Why, it depreciated the price of the articles in question, and at this moment there was not the least doubt but that the price was kept down by the delay occasioned by the Motions and speeches of hon. Gentlemen opposite ["Oh, oh!"] Hon. Gentlemen might cry "Oh!" but the fact was as he represented it, and on the authority of persons in the trade, that a serious loss was sustained by them owing to this measure being suspended. Hon. Gentlemen would have the opportunity of knowing the fact soon; and it would be seen whether he or they were right. They knew perfectly well that the measure would pass, and it would be seen then whether the price of foreign wheat, would not rise higher than at this moment; and he put it to the hon. Member for Somerset, who treated every appeal on the score of general interest with indifference, to look at the enormous injury he was inflicting upon the farmers and the dealers whose
 1150 1151 1152
 MR. VILLIERS  replied, that what he had said was this, that the inflammatory speeches made by Conservative Gentlemen had had the effect of depressing prices, and that they would rise if the present measure were allowed to pass. The country, it must be remembered, was now suffering under the effect of thirty years' Corn Law, and that pressure must be resumed before the full effect of the change could be known or felt.
 MR. YORKE  said, he represented a constituency quite as large as that of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, and whose interests were quite as important as those of the constituency of the hon. Member for Durham, and he thought that their feelings of alarm were not likely to be allayed by the language used by those hon. Members. He (Mr. Yorke) rose, merely for the purpose of saying that the reason for the price of cattle being so low in former years, was the general failure of the peculiar crops on which cattle were fed. The consequence of this failure was, that one-fourth more cattle were thrown on the market, and the prices became so small as to be scarcely anything. Now there were enormous green crops, and the farmers kept their cattle for store instead of sending them in for consumption. With respect to the probable supply, he had no faith in the professions of Government, as he recollected that on a former occasion, 10,000 head of cattle were fixed as the highest number likely to be imported under the Tariff, and he also recollected how that prophecy had been falsified. He should therefore resist this Resolution, as he should everything tending to diminish protection on British agriculture.
 SIR J. TYRRELL , in seconding the Amendment of the hon. Member, said, that his object in rising had been to state to the House a fact which had come to his knowledge in the course of the last few days, and which had been represented to him by a clergyman of the county he had the honour to represent, namely, the fact of a most respectable tanner in that county having within a very short time turned off no fewer than ten of his workmen; and he contemplated the dismissal of as many more. One fact, it was a common observation, was worth a thousand arguments; and, therefore, he had thought it his duty to name this striking one to the House. These workmen had been—they and their fathers before them—in the employment of this respectable tanner and his predecessors for the last hundred years. Now, he should like to be told by some Member of Her Majesty's Government, what was the process by which these industrious tanners were now to be employed? How were they to use the free-trade phraseology of the day, to be "absorbed?" He presumed that the workhouse would alone be enabled to tell the tale of these poor men's industrious endeavours, vain as they now must be, to support their wives and families. He believed that they had been in the habit of attending the Anti-Corn-Law meetings, and of hearing the statements of the League lecturers, that the advantages of having the cheap loaf would be so great as to cover all other difficulties they might meet with, and that it would be a great advantage to working tanners to have the free importation of foreign hides. He knew that the answer which hon. Gentlemen opposite gave to cases of this kind was, that free trade in corn would cure all the
 1161
 MR. A. STAFFORD O'BRIEN , on reading the Order of the Day, wished to say a few words on the present state of Public Business. On the 27th January, the First Lord of the Treasury had announced certain changes, particularly affecting the agricultural interest. The right hon. Baronet had said, that he intended to accompany those changes with provisions which would not exactly give compensation, but which he firmly believed would advance the welfare of that body. It was now the 17th of March, and only one of the measures had been laid on the Table on Friday last, none of the rest had been seen. He did not mean to speak of it as a question of free trade or of protection, but simply as a matter of public business.
 1122 1123 1124
 The CHANCELLOR, OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he was sorry to have to apologize to the House for the absence of his right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Treasury. He could assure the House, and from the constancy of his right hon. Friend's attendance, they would readily credit the assurance, that nothing but the public business had prevented him being in his place at the usual hour. He certainly wished that the hon. Member had availed himself of some opportunity, during the seven weeks which he stated had elapsed since the measures of the Government were propounded to the House, to have asked this question as to the mode of transacting the public business, when the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government was present. In bringing forward the measures now before the House, his right hon. Friend had entered into considerable detail as to the various measures he intended to submit to Parliament during the present Session, in connection with those measures for the reduction of duties now under consideration. And in the discussion that then took place, the great anxiety expressed was to have a knowledge of the details of the Bill which related to settlements. That Bill had accordingly been presented to the House, and was now in the hands of every Member. The Bills relating to the highways and to drainage were at present in a considerably advanced state of preparation. The substance and object of those Bills had been distinctly stated; and it was impossible for any one who wished to form a judgment on the bearings and tendency of those measures not to be able to do so from the statements already made. With respect to the other grants that were proposed to be made in aid of the costs of prosecution, the maintenance of prisoners, and the payment of salaries connected with the Poor Law Unions, the hon. Gentleman was just as able now to form a calculation
 1125
 MR. DUNCAN  said, that although he represented a manufacturing community, comprising not less than 70,000 persons who were engaged in the linen trade, he was prepared to support the proposition brought forward by Her Majesty's Ministers. He was perfectly convinced that he was speaking the sentiments of the whole of the linen manufacturers of Scotland, when he declared that they were anxious that everything in the shape of duty should be taken off, and that nothing in the semblance of protection should be given to their trade. Concurring as he did most cordially in those views, he should have great pleasure in supporting the proposition of the Government now before the House.
 MR. C. BRUCE  contended, that the breeders of cattle in this country would be injured by the measures of the Government. In 1844, the number of cattle imported was 159; in 1845, the number was 4,920; and in 1846, 16,870 were imported.
 LORD G. BENTINCK : I will not join in the apprehension that any large quantity of cattle will be imported into this country; and a duty of 1 l. 1158
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said, that as it might not be possible to finish the debate on timber that night, inasmuch as it might occupy six hours, it would, he thought, be convenient for all parties to adjourn the debate on timber to Friday next.
 MR. LAWSON  said, he was one of those who, in 1842, had supported the-Government in their proposal to reduce the duty on foreign hides, because it was said that the reduction of that duty would benefit the labouring classes, in reference to the price they would have to give for their shoes and boots. But he found that, on the contrary, the price of leather, to the working classes had not decreased in consequence of the measure of 1842, whilst an injury had been done to the agricultural interest. The present proposition related, too, not only to raw hides, but to curried hides also; and this was an additional reason why he should, as he now begged to do, move the omission of the article from the Resolution.
 MR. LAWSON  said, he regretted being obliged to rise so soon again, but he could not discharge his duty faithfully if he permitted a Resolution to pass which would have the effect of injuring the interests of his constituents, without recording his opposition against it. In rising to do so, he felt bound to state that he was not actuated by any representations from the master manufacturers, for as far as they were concerned, he believed the growth of home flax rendered them able to compete with foreigners in the manufacture of linen. But while he made this statement, he could not forget the large class of labourers who were employed under the master manufacturers, and who would be injured by any reduction in the price of the manufactured article. He could not disguise his belief that the master manufacturers could successfully compete with the foreigner; but such competition could only be maintained by an immediate reduction in the wages paid to the labourer. He did not make this assertion on a mere supposition, but from facts which had actually occurred a short time since. During the late recess a deputation of poor men waited upon him, who stated that they and their families had been thrown out of work for this reason, that the master manufacturers had promised them an increase of 10 per cent. upon their wages, but that they had subsequently confessed prices were so low they could not make the advance they had been led to hope they would be able to do. The consequence was that those poor men left their employment and had called upon him for a subscription to enable them to continue holding out against their masters. The answer he returned to the deputation was, that though the masters had not been his political friends in the borough, still he could not depart from a principle he had ever maintained, namely, that he would not support any class of men against their employers. He believed he could safely say that what those men had stated to him was strictly correct, viz., that they expected an increase of 10 per cent. upon their wages—that they could not get it, and that they had quitted their employment in consequence, and were then out of work. Instead of aiding those persons by a subscription in order to hold out against their employers, he had found work for them, which was, he considered, a much more salutary
 1165
 MR. C. BULLER  just asked to recall to the recollection of the House that the question of silk had passed, and that the article they were now upon was that of silk-worm gut, something used, he believed, in fishing.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  seconded the Amendment. The right hon. Baronet seemed determined to pursue the same headlong course, reckless of consequences, and to disregard entirely the interests of those who placed him on the bench where he then sat. The farmers were, after all, not so much disappointed as disgusted at the conduct of the right hon. Baronet, for they did not expect consistency from him. The farmers, in common with most people, wished that the reign of the right hon. Baronet might be very short, and felt some consolation that it must, at all events, be terminated at the next general election. The right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) asked him to accept the Chiltern Hundreds; but he disdained being the nominee of Government, and told him so. Since then now he had the happiness to inform the right hon. Baronet he had received a letter from his constituents, in which they expressed regret that he had not accepted the Chiltern Hundreds. [ Laughter. 1141
 MR. CARDWELL  stated, that he would address his observations to the last remarks made by the hon. Gentleman when supporting his Motion. The effect of taking the duty off the article of timber would be to give the whole benefit to the consumer in our own country, and not to the producer. To regulate the time when any reduction ought to be made in such an article, would require much judgment and consideration. He (Mr. Cardwell) thought he could prove the remarks of the hon. Gentleman were calculated to tell against him, rather than to support his argument. The hon. Gentleman had stated that if notices had been given early in the winter, large supplies of timber could have been brought into this market from Prussia and Russia, which could not be the case now. The House had been called upon to determine at what period it was to reduce the duty on timber; but he contended that, both by the first and second statement of the hon. Gentleman, the House of Commons was called on to negative the Amendment. The period at which a reduction of duties on timber was to commence, had been a matter of mature consideration with the Government; and it had been agreed that the measure proposed was that most likely to prove beneficial. That measure he hoped the House would pass. There were at all periods large stocks in hand, and it certainly ought to be an object of consideration to avoid, on the one hand, injury to those who had large stocks, and, on the other hand, to see that no loss should accrue by adopting an over indulgent view of the case. If the Amendment were carried, it would be decisive on the question, and practically the duties would cease and determine. He would only submit that, on the showing of the hon. Member, and on other grounds, the House ought to resist the Amendment.
 MR. CAYLEY  said, that he would move that those words be omitted for the purpose of addressing the House upon the present occasion. It had been stated, that the trade was generally in favour of a reduction of the duties on silk. Now he supposed that the trade consisted of the masters and of the workmen; and, from information he had received, he believed that neither the masters nor the workmen were in favour of the proposal of the Government. The working classes were certainly opposed to it. Public meetings in various parts of the country had been held, in which the working people had passed resolutions strongly conveying their disapproval of the Government scheme. An open public meeting had been held at Leek, in Staffordshire, in which such resolutions had been passed. A similar meeting had been held at Middleton, near Manchester; another at Manchester; and another at Ormskirk. At the latter place a free trader had occupied the chair of the meeting; and such had been the conviction produced by the speeches of those in favour of protection to the silk trade, that the chairman and his free-trade adherents had been converted, and had passed over to the side of protection. Several other meetings, at eight or nine different places, had been held, and at every one of them resolutions had been passed opposed to the measure of the Government. He was the Chairman of the Handloom Weavers' Committee, and he had since then enjoyed, as he considered fortunately, very frequent
 1127
 MR. SHAW : As the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) had referred to the Bill for the Protection of Life in Ireland, he
 1126
 MR. FINCH  was sure that the right hon. Gentleman would take the line he had taken, and produce the high price of meat as a proof that the English agriculturist had nothing to fear. But the existence of high prices was the worst reason for taking off the duties that it was possible to imagine; because, when the prices were high the duties would go into the pocket of the foreign importer. With respect to the general question, when the right hon. Baronet introduced his measure in 1842, he stated as one reason for allaying the fears of the English agriculturists, that their breed of cattle was so superior that they had nothing to apprehend. But that reason was subsiding every year. Two years ago the Dutch and Belgians had purchased some of the finest animals in the English market; their breeds were improving every year, and in a year or two they would be able to compete with the finest of our breeds. With respect to the increase of prices, this was a mere temporary evil. The British farmer had suffered enormously from the murrain in his cattle, and if ever there was a time when he required high prices to remunerate him for his loss, it was the present. He knew one farmer, a neighbour of his, who had lost 300 l. 1146 l. s. s. l.; l. s. l., l. s., l.; l. s.
 MR. MUNTZ  adverted to the manufacture of zinc, which he said had been utterly extinguished by the free-trade measure, and nearly a million of capital had been thus displaced. It was utterly impossible that in the manufacture of this metal we could compete with the foreigner without protection. He said this disinterestedly, for he should, nevertheless, vote for the repeal of all protective duties, that all interests might at least be on the same footing.
 MR. ALLIX  wished to explain. He had not said that the diminution of duty on clover would sweep away the 50 l.
 MR. ALLIX  would request the indulgence of the House whilst he stated some reasons for requesting the Vice-President of the Board of Trade not to take off the duty of 10 s. s. l.
 DR. BOWRING  said, he had for years watched the progress of feeling amongst the working classes, and he could assure the hon. Member for Yorkshire that there was a very great improvement amongst them. The working classes of this country, as well as of foreign nations, were becoming aware of the degree of suffering which what was called protection inflicted upon them. Of this consciousness a remarkable instance was afforded by a memorial, addressed by the working classes of the city of Lyons to the Chamber of Deputies, in which they stated that they were poor, and were deemed ignorant; but that their poverty and ignorance did not prevent them from ascertaining that the labouring classes were deeply interested in the extension of their market. They were aware that protection, so far from being a benefit to them, was their bane.
 1128
 MR. BORTHWICK  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman was exceedingly kind in his admonition, but it should have been directed to his own side of the House; for it was evident, from what had passed that night, that the Government and their supporters on the opposite side were determined to protract the discussion as long as possible. The hon. Member for Yorkshire had made a speech which had done equal credit to himself, to his class, to the House, and to the country. And then the Member for Bolton (Dr. Bowring) had followed with a speech to the effect that the working people, not of England, but of France, were in favour of the measure. Now it was most likely, as the people of France were our rivals in the silk among other manufactures, that their feelings on the subject would be quite at varience with those entertained by the people of this country. Let it be recollected that the people of France had not established the peace of the world at a cost of 600,000,000 l., l. 1129
 MR. BORTHWICK : The hon. Member for Wolverhampton had asked the protectionist side of the House how it came to pass, as they had divided the House in favour of the labouring classes, they could yet unite for keeping up the price of the food of the labouring classes. The hon. Gentleman had made a speech the beginning of which contradicted the end. He had himself said, "Pass this measure, and corn will rise;" and then he followed by saying, "How can you (meaning the agricultural Members of the House) knowing that the agricultural labourers are not capable of purchasing animal food, attempt to keep up the price even of their bread?" The hon. Member for Wolverhampton said, "Pass the Bill for Corn Law repeal and the Tariff, and the prices of agricultural produce will be enhanced." How, then, does the hon. Member hope to cheapen the food of milliners, of whom the House had heard something the previous evening, or any other persons? But that was not the only strange argument alleged during the present debate. In the year 1842 the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government had passed the Tariff under which foreign cattle had been imported into the country. The hon. Baronet had then told the House, with reference to Spain—it being believed that that country, by reason of her fertile soil, would be able to export a large number of cattle to England—that the House might rely on his promise when he said not a single hoof would cross the Bay of Biscay. Yes, the right hon. Baronet had stated this; but the fact did not bear out his statement, and a large number of cattle did cross the Bay of Biscay, and did find an entrance into Great Britain. Arguments of equal value were made at
 1154 1155 l.,
 MR. PHILIP HOWARD  wished to suggest to his right hon. Friend the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, whether it would not be advisable to impose a small registration duty on the importation of foreign cattle; not for any purpose of revenue, farther than paying the amount of the Custom-house charges, but as a means of having a correct account of the number imported. He was himself favourable to the free importation of cattle from abroad; because, as they were generally brought over in a lean condition, the English farmer would have a part of the profits arising from fattening them fit for the London market.
 MR. MITCHELL  then rose to move his Amendment upon the proposition affecting the Timber Duties. It was—
 "To leave out '1847' in order to insert '1846' instead thereof." 1166
 MR. MITCHELL  would not trouble the House by dividing.
 MR. EWART  expressed himself in favour of any measure tending to extend the commerce of this country with France. He was in favour of a much greater reduction in the duty on wine than any that had as yet taken place; for, from the time of Mr. Pitt's first experiment, by which one half of the duty was struck off, to the present day, every year's experience tended to show how beneficial were the results which followed from the relaxation of the protective system. He was sure that the hon. Gentlemen who professed themselves to be friends of protection, were friends also of peace; and he considered that it was not the least important of the many blessings which he was sure would flow from the Ministerial project for the alteration of our commercial policy, that it was likely to have the effect of increasing the means of international commerce between this country and France and America, and of creating in these and all other countries with which we were connected, a feeling of attachment
 1132
 MR. ALDERMAN THOMPSON  said, this head included the article of French brandy, &c., a most important item in respect to
 1130 l. s. d. s., s. d., l. s. s. 1131
 SIR C. KNIGHTLEY  said, that great ravages had been made among cattle by disease. He had himself lost thirty oxen by disease, and his tenants had lost many. This had caused high price. A project,
 1157
 SIR G. CLERK  said, the case to which the hon. Gentleman had referred afforded a strong illustration of what had been already urged in that House, that while it remained a matter of uncertainty what would be the issue of the Government measure, every trade would be paralysed. The cheapening of leather must necessarily benefit the shoemakers of this country, and enable them to compete successfully with those of France. What was the effect of the reduction of the duty in 1842? Why, the importation of foreign hides in 1843 was 585,000 cwt., which was increased in 1844 to 637,000 cwt.; and last year, 719,000 cwt. If, however, he was told by the hon. Member that the price of boots and shoes had not been reduced by the reduction of the duty, he would have the hon. Member consider what would have been the price of boots and shoes and of every other article made of leather if the admission of foreign hides had been resisted altogether. The fact was, that in ordinary times the power of consumption in this country increased in a more rapid ratio than the means of supplying the demand. It was quite true that the price of leather had not been reduced; and seeing this to be the case, with the reduction already made, was it not the bounden duty of the Government, not only to protect the shoe trade of this country, but also to enable the consumer of these articles to obtain them at a lower price, by allowing leather in a dressed state to come in duty free? Now, he did not entertain any feelings of danger to the tanners in England by the proposed reduction. He asked, with the skill which this country possessed, what was to prevent the tanners from producing leather as cheap and as good as any country in the world? This country possessed peculiar facilities for the manufacture of leather which no other country in the world had. This was another case in which, he believed, not a single representation had been made by persons
 1162
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that it was his intention to make the first reading of the Bill the first Order of the Day after the second reading of the Corn Bill.
 SIR J. HANMER  begged to say, that a
 1167
 SIR J. TROLLOPE  said, that the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government had referred to a prediction made by the hon. Member for Somerset (Mr. Miles), which had not been verified; but the hon. Baronet himself had made predictions and promises which should be placed within the memory of the House. He recollected the right hon. Baronet saying most distinctly, that the people of the country would be enabled to save the whole amount of the Income Tax out of the reductions caused by the Tariff. Now, if hon. Members were allowed to rise on the other side of the House and state that the protectionist Members were answerable for the appearance of the panic, the right hon. Baronet should also take his share of the falsifications of the predictions he had made. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had alluded to an experiment which had been made with reference to the feeding of cattle on malt. How and where the experiment had been conducted he was not aware. It could not have been made by the agriculturists themselves, for the excisemen stopped the course of all experiments of that nature made by fanners. Though allowed to steep barley, they were not allowed to resort to the drying process, whereby alone could he determine the question of malt feeding. But, looking at the general question, the protectionists might perhaps have looked too gloomily upon the effects they feared would result from the introduction of foreign cattle. They, however, were not to be blamed for this, because they relied on the statements of gentlemen who had gone abroad, and were capable, therefore, of estimating the effects likely to flow from a facility afforded to importation. It was but natural that the protectionists feared the adoption of free trade measures, when it was supposed they would take place all at once. An hon. Member on the other side, the Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. Villiers), instead of addressing himself to the question before the House, had indulged himself with a speech on the Corn Laws. The hon. Member was severe on the Conservatives in that House, because, he said, the protectionists were desirous of limiting the supply of food to the poorer classes of the community.
 1153
 SIR J. WALSH  observed, that the hon. Member for Wolverhampton had attributed personal selfishness to the agricultural Members in the House, and indeed to the agriculturists generally. The agricultural Members in that House were, however, the representatives of a great national interest, upon which the prosperity of all other classes was founded, and therefore they contended that no change could be made detrimental to its condition which would not also prove injurious to all other branches of industry. It was both unfair and unjust in the hon. Member for Wolverhampton to say that agriculturists acted only under the greatest selfishness. The agriculturists and the agricultural Members of that House were acting as fairly as other men, and if the protective Members
 1156
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, after listening to the speech of the hon. Member for Somersetshire with all the attention which was due to the station filled by the hon. Gentleman, and to the great attention which he had paid to this subject, he must confess he felt surprised that the hon. Gentleman had not admitted that some of the statements which he had made were calculated to diminish the alarm which he alleged existed as the consequence of the withdrawal of the import duty, not only on foreign cattle, but also on other articles of agricultural produce. The hon. Member had stated this remarkable fact in the course of his speech, that in a single quarter of a year there had been no less than 171,000 animals, including oxen, bulls, cows, and sheep, imported from Ireland into this country. In that short period there had been no less than 171,000 animals entering into competition with the graziers of this country from Ireland; while within the last three years there had not been brought in, under the reduced duty, from foreign countries, more than 140,000 oxen. But surely, if the great importation on one side, as stated by the hon. Gentleman, did not affect the price of meat in the English market, the comparatively trifling importation from foreign countries could not have that effect. He held in his hand a comparison of the Government contracts for fresh and salt meat in the home market from the year 1836 to 1845, and notwithstanding this enormous importation from Ireland, and the importation from foreign countries during the last
 1142 l. s. d., l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d., l. s. d. d. 1143 1144 d. d. d., 1145
 SIR R. PEEL : I assure my hon. Friend, and I have known him for a very long period, that I give him entire credit for sincerity
 1136 s. l. s. s. l. l.
 MR. W. MILES  was very sorry the Government thought fit to reduce the duty on oxen, sheep, and other animals. He thought the duty had worked exceedingly well, and in the very few observations he would address to the House, he would bring forward first of all the supply which had come from foreign countries since the duty had been imposed, and since the prohibition ended, in order to show that the importation had increased since 1842, and that it now amounted to a large quantity. At the same time, he would show that the present duty had not in any way had the effect of preventing animals being brought
 1137 l. s. s. s. s. s. s. d. l. s. 1138 l., 
 
 PORTS. PRICE. DUTY. 
 £ s. d. £ s. d. 
 Kiel 11 9 6 1 0 0 
 Lubeck 15 2 6 1 0 0 
 Rostock 15 17 6 1 0 0 
 Dantzic 13 14 6 1 0 0 
 Elsinore 12 2 6 1 0 0 
 Ostend 15 5 0 1 0 0 
 Hamburgh 15 13 0 1 0 0 l. s. d. l. s., l. s. d. 
 
 Oxen and bulls 1,114 
 Cows 368 
 Calves 39 
 Sheep 210 
 Lambs 7 
 Swine and hogs 361 
 2,099 
 
 Oxen and bulls 3,710 
 Cows 1,155 
 Calves 55 
 Sheep 2,801 
 Lambs 16 
 Swine and hogs 27 
 7,764 
 
 Oxen and bulls 9,782 
 Cows 6,502 
 Calves 586 
 Sheep 15,846 
 Lambs 112 
 Swine and hogs 1,591 
 34,426 1139 
 
 On Oxen between 8 and 9 to 1 
 Cows between 17 and 18 — 
 Calves 15 — 
 Sheep 75 — 
 Lambs 16 — 
 Swine and hogs between 4 and 5 to 1 "Superior flour suitable for the English market 5½ dols. to 5 dols. 62½ per barrel. Freight to Liverpool 2 s., s. 
 
 Oxen, bulls, and cows 32,883 
 Calves 583 
 Sheep and lambs 32,576 
 Swine 104,141 
 170,183 1140
 MR. SMITH O'BRIEN  said, nothing could be more fair than the spirit in which this subject had been discussed by the right hon. Baronet. He hoped to discuss it with the same feeling; but in the remarks which he should feel it his duty to address to the House, if anything should fall from him contrary to that, he trusted they would not consider that it was put forward with any intention of offending the right hon. Baronet. They were all agreed that it was desirable to take measures to prevent the epidemic which would result from the failure of the potato crop, in order to meet future contingencies; but, in his opinion, the Bill which the Government had introduced with the intention of accomplishing this object was inadequate to the emergency. He found, by reference to the Irish Poor Law Act, that the guardians of every Poor Law Union are empowered to provide relief for persons affected with contagious or other diseases in the workhouses under their control during their illness and convalescence; to afford them such food as they might deem necessary, with the consent of the Poor Law Commissioners; and that the expense should be paid out of the rates paid by the inhabitants of each Union. Under this law there were eighty-eight fever hospitals connected with Unions, in all of which this rule had been carried out, whenever necessity arose. He thought, therefore, that the right hon. Baronet should have brought forward some case in which the guardians of one or more of these Unions had neglected or refused to carry out this provision: he had not, however, done so; but the Bill he had introduced showed that he considered that the Poor Law guardians had neglected their duty. The Bill would introduce the principle of imperative taxation, which was much complained of in Ireland, and apparently without achieving any great object. It also gave power to the Executive to appoint fresh medical officers, certainly at the expense of the State, who were to supersede the officers now employed in the different Unions. It appeared to him, however, that the people of Ireland did not want fever hospitals, but food at the present moment. The Government asked, had they not brought in the Corn Law Bill? That, he apprehended, was a Bill for England, and not for Ireland, If that
 1187 l. l., l. l. l. l. l. 1188 l. l., 1189
 MR. P. S. BUTLER : As it appeared to be expected that every Irish Member should deliver his opinions upon the question, he begged to offer a very few observations. He should vote against the Motion of the hon. Member for Stroud. The funds at the disposal of the Poor Law guardians in Ireland were totally insufficient. The hon. Member proceeded to give several instances of the straitened circumstances in which
 1214
 MR. FRENCH , in deference to the feeling expressed on both sides of the House, should not, at present, enter on a discussion as to the demerits and defects of the Irish Poor Law; his opinions were unchanged as to its inapplicability to the wants of the country: inoperative for good—productive only of discontent and disturbance, injudiciously and offensively administered by the Commissioners—it would not be a matter of surprise that it was almost without a defender. There was one subject, however, unconnected with its administration, which he could not pass over. In reply to a question put by him to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, why the guardians of the Castlereagh Union were dismissed? an answer had been put into the mouth of the right hon. Gentleman, wholly and totally destitute of truth. The right hon. Gentleman stated, that the Poor Law Commissioners had dismissed the guardians of the Castlorea Union, because they refused to open the workhouse. He had lately seen several of the selected magistrates and electoral guardians of that Union, and learned from them that the House had been opened, a new rate imposed, and that the reason assigned was the very opposite of fact. Assurances of this kind were not only damaging to the Commission, but to the Government by whom they were retained in office. He fully concurred with his hon. Friend the Member for Limerick, that Government had no reason to pride themselves on the measures brought forward by them in the present Session of Parliament in relation to Ireland. The self-complacency of the right hon. Baronet was ludicrously absurd.
 1206 l. l. l. 1207 1208 l.,
 MR. SHAW  would trespass very shortly on the House, as he desired to throw no impediment in the way of the Bill then under their consideration going into Committee. He could not however avoid making a few observations upon the speech of the hon. Member for Finsbury who had just sat down. The hon. Gentleman had accused that side of the House of a reluctance to adopt a good Poor Law for Ireland. Now, they did not object to a
 1203 l. 1204 d. s. d. 1205
 MR. JOHN O'CONNELL  said, that if outdoor relief were to be established in Ireland, it would amount to an utter confiscation of property. The system had been tried in England, and it had not succeeded. Its effects would be disastrous in Ireland.
 COLONEL RAWDON  would not take up the time of the House farther than to observe that the present was not a fit opportunity for entering upon so wide a topic as that supposed by the last hon. speaker. He wished particularly to direct attention to the fever and other returns from Ireland, and to observe that it would be advisable to have those returns periodically made, and to append to them the names of the landlords in whose localities diseases were most prevalent, so as to render those persons subject to public opinion. He had felt extreme gratification in hearing from the lips of the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary an avowal which he trusted would henceforward be acted upon by him, and one which was almost made in the precise terms used so often on his own side—namely, that the time was come when the Government must make up its mind to legislate, upon Irish subjects with Irish feelings. He hoped and he believed that the expression of such a sentiment on the part of the Government, constituted a new era for Ireland.
 MR. SCROPE  explained, that he had certainly not meant that the ablebodied poor should be relieved at their own homes. His object was merely to prevent their actually starving. However, as several hon. Gentlemen seemed to think that the discussion had better be taken at another time, and that the Bill should be permitted at once to go into Committee, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. P. SCROPE : I beg again to explain. I said that under the circumstances which had occurred in Ireland, I thought it would have been desirable for the Government to have instructed the local authorities to make preparations for coming events; and that one of those preparations would have been the laying out of a sum of money in the purchasing of a sufficient stock of oats and other corn, to provide food for the destitute poor; but I did not suggest that the Government should have passed any measure to check the exportation of corn from that country.
 MR. P. SCROPE  begged to explain. The right hon. Gentleman had misunderstood him. If the precise words of his proposal did not fully express his (Mr. P. Scrope's) meaning, he thought that the speech he had addressed to the House must have done so. He never contemplated giving relief to the able-bodied idle, though destitute, poor. All he wished to be done for them was, that they should be provided with work. He was quite willing to alter his Motion to that effect.
 MR. P. SCROPE : No; that is not what I said. I expressed a hope that Government had taken care that a sufficient stock of corn should be reserved in the neighbourhood where the distress prevailed.
 MR. P. SCROPE  rose to move, pursuant to his Notice—
 "That it be an Instruction to the Committee, that they have power to make provision therein that the Guardians of the several Poor Law Unions in Ireland be required to relieve with food all such destitute persons within their Unions as may be in danger of perishing from want, or from disease the consequence of want." 1168 1169 l. 1170 * * Roscommon Journal; 1171 1172 d. d. s. d. s., s., s., 1173 s.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  expressed his regret that the Amendment had been moved, and, if his hon. Friend pressed it to a division, he must vote against it; for a proposition involving so wide a question as that of outdoor relief should have been brought forward as a substantive Motion. Now, the hon. Member for Finsbury had made an observation which had very much struck him. He knew the kindness of heart of that hon. Gentleman, and his wish to promote the welfare of the Irish people, but the hon. Gentleman stated that he did not
 1209
 MR. FITZGERALD  intended to vote for the Bill; but in doing so, he should observe that the very existence of the evils which led to the necessity for such a measure was proof of the existence of one of the heaviest grievances of which Ireland had to complain. One of the greatest evils of which Ireland complained was the want of a sufficient proportion of representation in the Cabinet or the Legislature. Now, the right hon. Baronet had admitted—and his evidence was most important—that there was not at present a single Irish Member in the British Cabinet. He thought that a serious grievance. But there was another part of the right hon. Baronet's speech for which he had pleasure in thanking him. He thanked him for the kind manner in which he had spoken of the Catholic clergy in Ireland. That kind language would be the more soothing to the people of Ireland, and would be productive of the better effect, that it had been used by the right hon. Baronet in that House on the same day on which a newspaper, which was looked upon as an organ of the Government — he meant the  Times Times Times 1213 "The spectacle of a country where outrage may be threatened with effect, and executed without retribution—where the forms of justice are of no avail, and its spirit without influence—where sympathy is on the side of the wrong-doers, and not of the sufferers — where testimony is perverted by fear, or destroyed by violence—where falsehood assumes the guise and utters the language of devotion—where perjury protects itself beneath the venerable garb of sanctity, or is sheltered by the sacred walls of the confessional."
 MR. M. MILNES : The hon. Member who had just sat down had hit the right nail on the head when he asserted that the great evil which afflicted Ireland con-
 1210 1211
 MR. WAKLEY  said, he had hoped that the Government were not unfriendly to the introduction of a good Poor Law into Ireland; but it was now clear, from the statement of the right hon. Baronet, that the people of Ireland had no hope that such a law would be introduced, or if introduced, would be supported by the Government. He regarded the statement of the right hon. Baronet as a very calamitous announcement; and he thought that the poor of Ireland would have great reason to complain of it. The right hon. Baronet thought that it was not a permanent evil they were to provide for—a temporary arrangement was sufficient; but was not the present condition of Ireland, proved by their own inquiries and legislation, a reason for altering their permanent condition? [SIR J. GRAHAM: Not for altering the Poor Law.] He therefore felt grateful to the hon. Member for Stroud for introducing the subject in a large and comprehensive sense, in a way that the subject might be understood by the English public. He thought it positively disgraceful that England, Scotland, and Ireland should have different laws for the government of their poor. The right hon. Baronet had endeavoured to show why Ireland was not entitled to the same wide and general Poor Law as the people of England. In that respect he had failed. Was there not the same state of things in Ireland at present as in England before the Statute of Elizabeth? Did not vagrancy exist now in
 1190 s. s., 1191 1192 
 
 ENGLAND AND WALES. 
 Years. Believed in Workhouses. Relieved out of Workhouses. 
 1837 30,351 258,367 
 1838 78,264 568,113 
 1839 98,755 674,788 
 1840 114,626 747,052 
 1841 136,442 814,425 
 1842 149,461 855,283 
 1843 183,974 1,010,136 
 1844 179,663 997,224 1193 1194 s. maximum s. d., s. d., s. d., s. d. d. s. d. d., s. d. s. d. s. s. d., s. d., s. d. 1195 "In the commencement of the year 1817 those who foresaw the coming pestilence, and would have made exertions to obviate it, were considered as alarmists. Thus, in Tullamore, in that year,
 1196 —"excited a sense of danger; alarm commenced, which ran into general dismay; military were posted at every avenue; the town was placed in a state of blockade; all intercourse in business, all trade was arrested, and all communication between the town and adjacent country was at an end. The poor were deprived of employment, and were driven from the doors where before they had always received relief, lest they should introduce disease with them. Thus, destitution and fever continued in a vicious circle, each impelling the other, while want of presence of mind aggravated a thousand fold the terrible infliction." "I know not of any visitation so much to be dreaded as epidemic fever; it is worse than plague, for it lasts through all seasons. Cholera may seem more frightful, but it is in reality less destructive—it terminates rapidly in death, or in as rapid recovery; its visitation too is short, and it leaves those who recover unimpaired in health and strength. Civil war, were it not for its crimes, would be, as far as regards the welfare of a country, a visitation less to be dreaded than epidemic fever. Epidemic fever, as it has appeared in Ireland, persists through all seasons, and, when it has seized on an individual, generally extends to every member of the family, leaving no one of them capable of struggling against the common destitution. In Dublin alone, notwithstanding all the means of prevention that wealth and charity
 1197 "The epidemics which appeared at different times, during a space of 100 years, have presented the same characters. It is reasonable to infer that they owe their origin to some common cause; my attention was, therefore, turned to ascertain what that common cause was. For this no mode of inquiry seemed better adapted than the inductive, to group together all the epidemics of which we have accurate accounts, noting the circumstances that accompanied or preceded each, and ascertaining if among them there were some one condition invariably present, which, according to the laws of this mode of inquiry, would then be that common cause." "I have thus thrown together, with a concise notice of the most remarkable preceding or accompanying circumstances, the principal epidemics of the last hundred years. It is a maxim in philosophizing to assign like causes to like effects; and if upon a general view of all the instances adduced we find some one condition invariably present, to that condition we give the name of cause. We give the name of cause to the object which we believe to be the invariable antecedent of a particular change. Epidemic fevers are the like effects; we must, if possible, assign them like causes. Upon a general review of all the instances, with the accompanying circumstances, we find one condition invariably present—famine, which we, therefore, mark down as their common cause." "When the epidemic of 1826 appeared, an Act of Parliament was put in force, suggested by the Board of Health, which obliged each parish to ap-
 1198 "I would be far from undervaluing the advantages of cleanliness, but it is plain that all those matters over which the officers of health were given control, had equally existed for an indefinite period of time, and, and without being accompanied by any epidemic, and that expending much time and money in their removal, and directing the principal attention to them, was objectionable for two reasons. First, it was nearly an useless expenditure; and secondly, presenting an appearance of active exertion, it drew away attention from the real cause of the evil. The Act of Parliament took away all discretionary power from the parishes; they might spend as much money as they pleased in whitewashing rooms and staircases, but they could not lay out one penny to save a fellow creature from starvation." "The people of Ireland are peculiarly liable to become the victims of such pestilence. The effect of competition among a population with little employment has been to reduce their wages to the lowest sum on which life can be supported. Potatoes have hence become their staple food. If this crop be unproductive, the earnings of the labouring class are then quite insufficient to purchase the necessary quantity of any other food. Corn is altogether out of reach of their means; and thus, with an abundance of it around them, so great as to admit of exportation, they starve in the midst of plenty, as literally as if dungeon bars separated them from a granary. When distress has been at its height, and our poor have been dying of starvation in our streets, our corn has been going to a foreign market It is to our own poor a forbidden fruit. The potato has, I believe, been a curse to our country. It has reduced the wages of the labourers to the very smallest pittance; and when a bad crop occurs, there is no descent for them in the scale of food: the next step is starvation." 1199 "Little need be said of the means best adapted to guard us against it. It remains for others than the physician to provide the preventive; it is to be found not in medicine, but in employment; not in the lancet, but in food; not in raising lazarettos for the reception of the sick, but in establishing manufactories for the employment of the healthy. This is the true mode of banishing fever from this country." "Some time might, however, elapse before measures, how well soever devised, could be brought into effective operation, to enable our population to possess within themselves the means of obtaining sufficient supplies of food; and it therefore remains to be determined, what would he the most beneficial mode of distributing nourishment, were we again to be visited by an epidemics such as that of 1817 or 1826. A plan was adopted in
 1200 d., l. "I have in the above observations endeavoured to keep three positions prominently before my readers:—1st. That famine (including deficient or unwholesome food) is the paramount cause of the epidemic fevers of Ireland. 2dly. That epidemic fever, originate as it may, soon acquires a contagious power, a power of generating and of propagating itself, and thus involving all, rich and poor, in the country, in one common danger. And 3dly, as a corollary from these two, that employment and wholesome food will be the best prevention, aided, should the necessity arise, by hospitals to extinguish contagion." 1201 s. s. 1202
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  seconded the Motion. He disclaimed any wish to throw difficulties in the way of the measures proposed by Her Majesty's Government; but he thought it the duty of hon. Gentlemen unconnected with the Government to call the attention of the House to measures which in their judgment the present emergency required. The Government had stated that they took upon themselves the responsibility of providing food for the people of Ireland. He gave the Government credit for so doing; but the measures
 1174 1175 l.,
 SIR J. GRAHAM : I can assure the House that I feel, and constantly have felt, the high responsibility and great disadvantage under which I labour, in dealing with questions of such immense importance, and so deeply affecting the well-being of
 1176
 SIR J. GRAHAM : How could the Government check the diminution of corn in Ireland, unless they prohibited the exportation of corn? [Mr. P. SCROPE: The Unions might have a stock in hand.] I must repeat that it would be very convenient to the House if the hon. Gentleman would put in the shape of a Bill, or of Resolutions, such measures as he thinks the present emergency requires. I should most willingly receive the suggestions of the hon. Gentleman, and treat them with great respect; but if any check in the present impoverished state of Ireland were to be imposed upon the exportation of the only article which Ireland has for sale, I am greatly mistaken if all the evils of that unhappy country would not be ag-
 1180
 SIR J. GRAHAM : This shows the immense disadvantage which results from a practical departure from the rules of the House. If the hon. Gentleman had moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the existing Poor Law, in Ireland, then he would have adopted exactly the proper course for attaining his object, and we should have known what he aimed at. But owing to a departure from the rules of the House, what has occurred? Why, the very first objection that I make against the Motion, calls up the hon. Gentleman, who says that he is perfectly willing to alter the terms of his instruction. I am willing to take the alternative which he has suggested, and to point out the difficulties arising from them as so amended. But it is not a mere question of the Poor Law that is now under
 1177 1178 1179
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that was equivalent to a recommendation that there should be a purchase of oats, a forced purchase of oats. But how was such a purchase to be effected? Was it to be done by Government, or out of the poor rates? Either proposition would have had the effect—a most injurious one—of suddenly increasing the demand for the article, and greatly enhancing the price; and not only enhancing the price of the food thus bought for the purposes of charity, but equally raising the price to be paid by those poor persons in Ireland, who were just able to subsist upon oatmeal, instead of potatoes. It would also have had the effect of enhancing the price of the article in all the markets of this country, where it was in general use; and I was about to say, if a reference to another debate were not irregular, that we should see as the effect of the maintenance of the Corn Laws an artificially enhanced price of wheat throughout the United Kingdom, and at the same time, if the proposal of the hon. Gentleman be agreed to, an enhanced price of oats also created by purchases on the public account. A more dangerous proposition it would be scarcely possible to submit to the House, being second only in danger to the first proposition of the hon. Gentleman, which he now disclaims. The hon. Gentleman rests this extraordinary recommendation on two grounds. First, the general ejectment of tenants in Ireland.
 1181 l. 1182 1183 1184 1185 1186
 SIR J. GRAHAM  observed that the Drainage Bill was not to be applied to Ireland alone, but was intended for the three kingdoms.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  rose to make an observation on the Motion before the House; and he did so even at the risk of appearing hard and uncharitable under the afflicting circumstances in which Ireland was placed. He believed that if the practice of giving outdoor relief was resorted to as proposed, the practice would become permanent, and the workhouse test could never again be resorted to in Ireland. Would it, let him ask, be fair, without resorting to any test, or having recourse to any preliminary inquiry, at once by a by-law, such as was proposed, to overturn the whole social system upon which the Poor Law of Ireland was based? Had any emergency yet arrived which called for so sweeping a measure? The workhouses were not yet full, nor was there any demand for extra accommodation, which he would be prepared to provide in a temporary manner if needed. He knew it was said by the hon. Member near him, that the people of Ireland would not go into the workhouse; but the circumstances had not sufficiently
 1212
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  could not vote for the present Motion; but he thought that more power to give relief to the sick and impotent poor, as in Scotland, should be given to the guardians. On some future occasion, he should trouble the House with his opinions on the administration of relief in England. He knew a case in which the guardians of a Poor Law Union in Devonshire were—he could not say are—letting out the labour of ablebodied men. How the right hon. Baronet reconciled his views of political economy in Ireland with the laxity of his Poor Law administration here he could not pretend to say.
 CAPTAIN BERKELEY , in supporting the Motion, said, that there was a very strong case in point illustrative of the necessity which existed for such an order. It was that of the Great Western Railway Company, which had proposed last year to cross the river Severn, over the tidal water, by means of a bridge. The Admiralty very properly opposed such an interference with the navigation of the river, and threw out the Bill; yet the Great Western Company, notwithstanding that defeat, had actually brought in another Bill, and were trying to get it passed, and the effect of it would be to cross the river by another bridge, not far removed from the proposed site of the former.
 MR. CORRY  said, that this was a case which did not fall properly under the cognizance of the Admiralty. The only parties on board connected with the Government were the mail contractors, and upon them no responsibility as to the management of the ship rested. Their duty consisted exclusively in taking care of the mails; and upon the Oriental and Peninsular Steam Navigation Company all the care and responsibility as to the vessel depended. Such being the case, the Lords of the Admiralty had thought it objectionable to lay down a precedent for instituting an inquiry where the parties concerned did not serve under the Crown.
 1228
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER 
 1264 l. 1265
 MR. CORRY  said, that there was no intention on the part of the Government to alter the articles of war. It was a subject which required to be treated with great delicacy.
 MR. CORRY  moved the following clause:—
 "And whereas certain marines who have here tofore been duly enlisted, and who have voluntarily taken the Oath of Allegiance and fidelity, and are now receiving Her Majesty's pay, have been sworn and attested; but doubts have arisen whether the justices before whom the said marines have been so sworn and attested, were duly qualified to administer to such marines the oaths prescribed by the several Acts passed for the regulation of Her Majesty's Royal Marine Forces while on shore: be it enacted, that in every case where any such marine, having been duly enlisted, shalt have been so attested and sworn, and shall nol have claimed to be discharged from Her Majesty's Royal Marine Forces on or before the 17th day of March, 1846, he shall not be entitled to his discharge by reason of such informality, but shall be liable to all the provisions of this Act and of the Act passed in the last Session of Parliament for the regulation of Her Majesty's Royal Marine Forces while on shore, where in force, and shall be entitled to the full benefit of his past service, and to all pay and pension in respect thereof, to all intents and purposes, and in like manner as if he had been duly attested and sworn."
 LORD WORSLEY  was hardly inclined to go so far as his hon. Friend (Mr. Morrison), though he certainly thought that the present system was susceptible of great improvement, and that much advantage would result from an inquiry into the whole subject. The Committees upon the merits this Session, had decided upon not entering into evidence upon the traffic. No doubt much time had been lost last year from the course which was pursued with regard to traffic; and no doubt, in many cases, the evidence of traffic had been very much exaggerated; nevertheless, he feared that if that consideration were excluded altogether, injustice in some cases might be done. He certainly could not for a moment think that there was any danger of too much money being expended at this time upon railways, for he knew that there were many difficulties in the way of their execution and practical working; for instance, he believed (and the hon. Gentleman the Member for Sunderland would contradict him if he were wrong) that no carriage builders would at present undertake to build a single carriage, except for an old-established company, so much were they at present occupied.
 MR. FOX MAULE  remarked, that if the Classification Committee, of which he was a Member, had made a formal written report, it must have been accompanied by maps and plans, and when they were put into the hands of an engraver, it was impossible to say when they would be ready to be brought before the House; it had therefore been deemed best that the Chairman should state the case, leaving it to the House, if it saw sufficient reason, at once to agree to the Motion for the appointment of a body capable of forming the most sound and practical judgment, accompanied also by due consideration of the sanatory effect of the proposed scheme upon the metropolis. Whatever was done should be accomplished in the least possible time, in order that business now in progress should be interrupted as little as possible. The proposal of the right hon. Baronet to give the decision of Government on Monday was perfectly satisfactory; but he had no doubt that it would see reason to appoint a Commission.
 MR. S. HERBERT  moved the adoption of the following Clause:—
 "And whereas certain soldiers, who have heretofore been duly enlisted, and who have voluntarily taken the Oath of Allegiance and fidelity, and are now receiving Her Majesty's pay, have been sworn and attested; but doubts have arisen whether the justices before whom the said soldiers have been so sworn and attested were duly qualified to administer to such soldiers the oaths prescribed by the several Acts passed for the punishing mutiny and desertion, and for the better payment of the army and their quarters: be it enacted, that in every case where any such soldier, having been duly enlisted, shall have been so attested and sworn, and shall not have claimed to be discharged on or before the 17th day of March, 1846, he shall not be entitled to his discharge by reason of such informality, but shall be liable to all the provisions of this Act, and of the Act passed during the last Session of Parliament, for the punishing mutiny and desertion, and for the better payment of the army and their quarters, where in force, and shall be entitled to the full benefit of his past service, and to all pay and pension in respect thereof, to all intents and purposes, and in like manner as if he had been duly attested and sworn." 1268
 MR. S. HERBERT  observed, that if the alteration were postponed till the Act passed, it would be an advertisement to the troops to examine their attestations, and see if they could find any flaw in them. There was also an alteration introduced into the ceremony of attestation. Were it to be left to sergeants, there would be an endless succession of such informalities as had lately occurred. Believing, however, that attestation was a necessary precaution, he proposed to continue it; but to provide that the magistrate signing the attestation should certify that the recruit had enlisted in the district over which he had jurisdiction.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that when the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government made, at the commencement of the Session, a statement as to the number of Bills likely to come before Parliament, and the capital which would be required to carry out the projected lines, it was to have been expected that the Government would bring forward some plan or suggestion to meet that state of things; and he (Lord John Russell) rather wished that when the Committee for which the right hon. Gentleman was appointed, some plan or some proposition should be made for that purpose. It did not appear, however, that anything more had been done by the Government than giving a general direction to the Committee how to proceed with respect to the Bills, leaving out the question of the capital. It would have been, in his opinion, a great deal better if such matters had been then considered, than to have them now discussed. What the right hon. Gentleman had stated appeared to him to be rather in the nature of a suggestion, and he could not collect from it that the Government had any intention of bringing forward any general plan. He hoped, therefore, that when this Committee should be appointed, the Chancellor of the Exchequer would state his views with regard to the general subject to the Committee, with a view to ascertaining the best course of legislation on the subject.
 CAPTAIN LAYARD  objected to the power which a captain in the navy possessed of ordering a man a dozen lashes, without being tried by a court martial. There was this anomaly in the navy, that if a man had sold his necessaries he might be punished; but if he deserted and sold his necessaries he could not.
 CAPTAIN LAYARD  said, he had just been informed that a captain in the navy could order a man four dozen lashes without the sentence of a court martial; and he thought that much too extensive a power to be vested in any one.
 MR. HORSMAN  observed, that the carrying out of amalgamations had been brought forward as a cause of the reduction of fares; but it had been shown to the House by one who was well acquainted with the subject, that so far from being an element in causing a reduction of fares, amalgamation had in some instances produced a contrary effect; and in some cases an increase of fares had been put forward as an inducement to an amalgamation. He had listened with great pleasure to the speech of the hon. Member for Renfrewshire; but that hon. Member had omitted some facts which bore very strongly on the question before them, and which were well worthy of consideration. One of the lines of railway in the south of Scotland (the Glasgow and Greenock) charged 1½ d. d. d. 1266
 MR. HUDSON : It was not my intention, Sir, to take any part in this debate unless an Amendment were moved to the Motion for the appointment of a Committee. Having found it to be the intention of Her Majesty's Government to grant the Committee, I should not, under ordinary circumstances, have thought it necessary to trouble the House with any observations or views of my own on this important question; but the hon. Member for Sheffield has referred to me in so pointed a manner, that I cannot refrain from giving some explanations with a view of setting him right. When I addressed the House on a former occasion, I observed that it had been stated by Her Majesty's Government, that 800 schemes had been deposited with the Board of Trade. I then stated, that I believed that a great number of those schemes would fail to make the deposits necessary to enable them to appear before Parliament; and I am happy to find myself now confirmed by the hon. Member himself, who has stated that out of 800 schemes only 440 have done what was requisite. So far it appears that I have been perfectly correct in my judgment. The next observation which I made had reference, not to the number of Bills likely to receive the sanction of Parliament, but to the amount of capital which would probably be required. On that point I stated that, in my opinion, not more than 100,000,000 l. 1240 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., 1241 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l.; 1242 l. l. l., l. l. 1243 l. 1244 l. A laugh. 1245
 MR. AGLIONBY  thought, that although this discussion was interesting, it was rather premature, seeing that a Committee was to be appointed which would obtain much more information than could now be given upon the statistics and the economy of railways. He would not, therefore,
 1258
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the question raised by his hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield was not necessarily connected with the subject brought forward by his hon. Friend the Member for Inverness. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down seemed to think that no one who supported the Motion of his hon. Friend could view the railway business of the country, as regarded the public interests, in any other light than that the profits of the railway companies had been enormous, and, to use the language of the hon. Member for Guildford, were begrudged to them. This was a mistaken view of the case. He did not believe that, taking them altogether, the profits had been enormous; but still, admitting them to be large, he did not begrudge them those profits; and, notwithstanding the lugubrious tone of the hon. Member, he hoped that he might class him with those who had obtained a due share of that wealth to which they were entitled, and which had been acquired with so much intelligence and zeal. But admitting this, still, as a Member of that House, and as one of the
 1246 1247
 MR. LABOUCHERE  would say no more on that point. So much, then, with respect to the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Inverness. He now wished to say a few words as to what fell from his hon. Friend the Member
 1248 1249
 MR. LABOUCHERE  had never intended to cast any reflection; but he thanked his hon. Friend for giving him the opportunity of setting himself right if he had been misunderstood. From his own connexion with the Board of Trade, he was well acquainted with several of the Members of the Railway Committee: some he knew personally, others by character, and of the integrity and talent of all he entertained the highest opinion—to them the public was deeply indebted. To the noble Lord who presided, the country was under great obligations. His opinion had been, last year, and he continued to hold it still, that the constitution of that body was not such as it ought to have been, considering the enormous interests with which it had to deal. In so saying, he hoped he should not be understood as implying the slightest personal reflection on the character of any Gentleman.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  held it extremely desirable, in the present state of railway business, that Government should exercise a more powerful interference. Every portion of the information before the Classification Committee had been in the hands of Ministers in November last, and they might then have made up their minds that the appointment of a Commission would be the best mode of investigating this subject. The plan for the purpose, ought to have been prepared and organized at the beginning of the Session, and much delay would have been avoided. He had been told that it was of the utmost importance to decide the question speedily; for if the parties were thrown over to next year, the price of the necessary land would be enormously raised by speculators, and the promoters exposed to the greatest possible disadvantage. After the manner in which the interference of the Board of Trade was received last year, he was not much surprised that Government had taken no steps in this matter; the Railway Committee of the Board of Trade had been exposed, first, to the great difficulty of their undertaking; and, secondly, to the powerful railway interest in the House; but it was unfortunate that Government did not earlier take the course it was now about to adopt. It was proposed by the right hon. Baronet to postpone the question till Monday; but he confessed that his mind was now made up on the question. He was clearly of opinion, that the subject would be better investigated by a Commission than by a Committee; and again he expressed his regret that the Commission had not been appointed at an earlier period: even the delay that had occurred might interpose considerable difficulties.
 MR. MORRISON , in bringing forward the Motion of which he had given notice, respecting Railways, said that as he found there was to be no opposition offered to the proposition, he should probably best consult the wishes of the House by not entering upon the subject at such length as he might otherwise have been induced to do. At the same time he trusted he might be permitted to occupy a few moments in stating generally what were the leading objects of his Motion. He considered that the experience of the last year, not only in England, but the other countries of Europe, had been most important, as it had shown that the development of traffic had gone on in a way not to have been anticipated by the most sanguine; and he proposed to show by the committee he was about to move for, that the system of cheap fares had everywhere been most advantageous and profitable, and that in almost every case the Companies which had tried the experiment had not been injured but benefited by that system. He also proposed to inquire to what extent it was practicable, by some general regulations, to relieve the Railway Committees from the weight of business with which they were at present oppressed. Lastly, he proposed to bring before the Committee the important subject of the granting of leases of lines, instead of concessions in perpetuity. The railway system had been so recently introduced, and had extended itself with such rapidity, that there
 1230 d., d., d., 1231 1232 "Population of France in 1842, 34,213,929, and dividing this sum by the area of 203,736 square miles, the population for each square mile is 167,932. The population per square mile in England is at present 297,698; and of Great Britain, 210,476. The trade and mercantile marine of France are quite inconsiderable compared with those of Britain. In 1844, the total customs revenue of France amounted to 215,825,704 francs,
 1233 l.; l. l. l., l.; l., l. 
 
 IN GREAT BRITAIN. IN FRANCE. 
 Population, 1841:— Population, 1842:— 
 London 1,873,676 Paris 875,495 
 Manchester 296,183 Marseilles 147,191 
 Liverpool 286,487 Lyons 143,977 
 Glasgow 274,533 Bourdeaux 99,512 
 Birmingham 182,922 Rouen 90,580 
 Leeds 152,054 Toulouse 76,965 
 Edinburgh 138,182 Nantes 76,870 
 Bristol 122,296 Lille 63,063 
 Plymouth 80,059 Strasbourg 61,150 
 Sheffield 68,186 Amiens 44,405 
 3,474,578 1,679,208 "The difference in the amount of shipping belonging to the principal English and French ports is equally remarkable, thus:— 
 
 Shipping exclusive of Steamers belonging to the ten principal English Ports in 1844. Shipping exclusive of Steamers belonging to the ten principal French Ports in 1844. 
 Vessels. Tonn. Vessels Tonn. 
 London 2,792 573,522 Havre 342 64,004 
 Liverpl. 1,287 342,142 Bourdeaux 365 61,501 
 Newcst. 1,236 273,953 Nantes 541 60,520 
 Sunderl. 813 165,697 Marseilles 630 54,896 
 Glasgow 393 96,610 St. Malo 217 27,831 
 Greenock 447 86,617 Dunkirk 192 17,820 
 Hull 453 67,227 Granville 231 15,069 
 Whiteh. 389 60,204 Rouen 81 12,688 
 Aberdeen 352 51,550 Nouvelle 218 12,032 
 Dundee 326 48,920 Dieppe 174 10,837 
 8,688 1,766,442 2,991 336,398 "Total shipping belonging to ports in the United Kingdom:— 
 
 Number of Vessels. Tonnage. 
 22,297 2,848,149. "Total shipping belonging to ports in France:— 
 
 Vessels. Tonnage. 
 13,578 595,344. "The total tonnage of France being very little more than that of the single port of London." "A Select Committee to inquire whether, without discouraging legitimate enterprise, conditions may not be embodied in Railway Acts better fitted than those hitherto inserted in them to promote and secure the interests of the public."
 MR. MORRISON  replied: The suggestion of the right hon. Baronet as to the adoption of a tariff, and with regard to the propriety of making certain exceptions in case an uniform tariff should be adopted, were well worthy of consideration, as well as the expediency of introducing the practice of leasing railways; and he would say, that it would have been of great public advantage if these suggestions had been considered by the House at an earlier period. What we had to complain of in this country was a want of system; and he was desirous to make an attempt to procure the adoption of a proper system. It was not his intention to reply to the observations of the hon. Members who had addressed the House on the subject of his Motion; but he felt it necessary to remark, with respect to the case of the Rouen Railroad mentioned by the hon. Member for Renfrewshire, that the Rouen tariff was established at a period when it was rather difficult for the Government to induce persons to undertake the construction of those works, and, therefore, the tariff was a very high one; whilst it was compared by the hon. Member with the Birmingham line, which was the lowest, or one of the lowest, in England. He had already said most distinctly that it was with regard to the new lines that he wished to introduce a new system. It was remarkable that the hon. Member for Sunderland, or, at any rate, some hon. Gentleman who had spoken during the debate, while approving of the principle of competition, at the same time recommended
 1267
 MR. PARKER  observed, that, notwithstanding he had given notice of another Motion in reference to railway legislation, rather more humble in its pretensions than the Motion under the consideration of the House, he had not the slightest intention of opposing the Resolution of the hon. Member for Inverness, nor of throwing the least impediment in its way. The course which he was about to take, in reference to this question, was forced upon him, not as a railway proprietor, but as the representative of a large mercantile community, whose interests were very much involved in the solution of this question, whether some precaution could not be devised, whereby the effects of the railway legislation now pending on the money and labour markets, might be provided against. At the commencement of the Session, a Committee had been appointed to take into consideration the question of railway legislation generally; and he was under the impression that one of the most important points to the consideration of which the Committee would have addressed itself was this, whether the expenditure of capital on railway enterprises had an injurious effect on the monetary system, and if so to what extent; but on referring to the Report, he was surprised to find that it contained no allusion whatever to the matter. He had procured from one of the officers of that House a
 1238 1239
 MR. WAWN  said, there was an inequality which had not been noticed in respect to the competition of railways with canals. The railroad proprietors charged high rates for passengers and low rates for goods, in order to ruin the canals. This was an abuse; and if they did so with canals, might they not do the same with our coasting trade, which was the nursery of our seamen?
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  admitted that the course was on some accounts objectionable; and if time had allowed, the Committee would have made a written Report, accompanied by maps and plans.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN , in rising to call the attention of the House to the Sixth Report of the Railways Classification Committee,
 1222 l. 1223
 MR. HUME  rose to move—
 "That in case of Bills for making, maintaining, varying, extending, or enlarging any Aqueduct, Archway, Bridge, Weir, Canal, Cut, Dock, Ferry, Harbour, Navigation, Pier, Port, Railway, Reservoir, Tunnel, Turnpike Road, and Water Work, and for all other works and inclosures on tidal lands within the ordinary spring tides, a general Plan showing the situation and approaches to the said Aqueduct, Archway, Harbour, &c, should be denoted upon a sheet or sheets of the Ordnance Survey, when published, or else upon Maps of an equivalent scale, and extending ten miles on each side; together with enlarged Plans and Sections of such parts of the works as are on the tidal lands within the ordinary spring tides, on a scale of not less than twenty feet to an inch, with the dimensions figured thereon, shall, on or before the 30th day of November, be deposited in the Board of Admiralty." 1221
 MR. HUME  seemed to think that the right hon. Member (Mr. Labouchere) had thrown a reflection on the Railway Committee of the Board of Trade. He was of opinion that it was not deserved. He had never spoken to the noble Lord at the head of it last year for five minutes in his life; but he must say that he had devoted his time to the subject with most praiseworthy diligence and remarkable ability. Mr. Porter also had done his duty; the only objection being, that he had been taken away from his own department. They had done their work in a most independent and laborious manner; and he hoped that his right hon. Friend would say that he did not mean to cast any such reflection: such a course was most discouraging to public men.
 MR. HUME  had no objection to the principle of the clause, as he believed that it merely carried out the object of the Enlistment Act. He did not, however, like clauses which had a retrospective effect; and he would suggest, therefore, that the clause should only take effect from and after the passing of the Act.
 MR. HUME  was glad the Government agreed to the appointment of the Committee, because much valuable information would be thereby gained. All railways intended to be established ought to be made productive of the greatest amount of benefit to the community. Hitherto, to a great degree, they had been intended for the benefit of the promoters. The money paid by the promoters to prevent opposition he considered was improperly given, inasmuch as the public were saddled with this additional expense. He hoped it would be considered whether the public ought not to have more protection than they had; and whether, even as far as the interests of the proprietors were concerned, a lower rate of fares would not be more profitable and advantageous. It had been given in evidence, that by the system adopted in France, the railways there would be made capable of paying a large portion of the national debt of that country; and if the railways of this country should amount to the value of 500 or 600 millions, as was anticipated by some—if a different system had been adopted here, and the public had been guarded by previous inquiry, we might have realized a sum equal to paying a large portion of the interest of our national debt. He regretted we had not availed ourselves of such a system. He would be the last man to break faith with the railway proprietors; but he did think the House was now in a condition to consider fairly whether something better for the interests of the community could not be done than had hitherto been the case. He gave his cordial support to the appointment of the Committee; and he hoped the inquiry would be conducted with fairness, without any desire to exclude whatever information might be offered.
 MR. HUME  complained that this was a very unsatisfactory answer.
 MR. HUME  said, that unless some assurance was given that the question of the articles of war would be taken into consideration, he should move that the Chairman report progress.
 MR. P. M. STEWART  had listened in
 1260 s. d.; s.; s. s. d.; s. d.; s. d. 1261
 MR. P. M. STEWART , as chairman of the Oriental Steam Company, thanked the right hon. Member for Devonport for bringing the subject under the notice of the House. It was a matter of the deepest and most anxious interest, and the company had no other wish but that it should be publicly and thoroughly investigated. Life and property were entrusted to the company, and they were not in the habit of allowing any instance of supposed negligence to pass without the strictest scrutiny. They had carried many thousand persons many thousand miles, and this was the first serious accident that had occurred. Many months ago the company thought that some symptoms of carelessness had been evinced, and they had issued the most stringent orders to the commanders of their vessels: they had reminded them, that as the compasses of steam-boats were likely to be deranged and untruthful, it was their duty always to apply to the superintendent at Southampton. They had also been most earnestly enjoined, on approaching land, especially in dark and foggy weather, to use the utmost vigilance, and in no instance to dispense with the use of the lead. Captain Macleod had been for ten years in the service of the company, had conducted himself with diligence and fidelity, and was especially popular with passengers. He was expected home to-morrow, and the investigation would be commenced immediately. The company had appointed three nautical men belonging to the Board for the purpose, and had applied to the Admiralty that it would appoint an officer to be a member of the Court of Inquiry. He (Mr. P. M. Stewart) regretted that the application had been declined, but trusted that the officers of the Trinity House would supply the deficiency. He would only add that when the tribunal, after completing the investigation, had arrived at an opinion,
 1229
 MR. MANGLES  was inclined to think that much as the hon. Member had spoken of the importance of the subject he had brought under the consideration of the House, he had still underrated it. Great as was the importance of railways to the wealth and prosperity of the country, they were in fact only a branch and specimen of those many objects of public enterprise which, as the march of civilization advanced, must be provided for in this country. The subject embraced a wider scope than that avowed by the hon. Member, whose demand appeared to be, that the House should reconsider the whole system of policy, with respect to the prosecution of public works, the principle governing which had hitherto been, more than in any other country, to allow free play to individual enterprise, and to restrain the Executive Government from interference. The scope of the hon. Gentleman's Motion, if he understood it, was this—that the system hitherto prevailing in this country was altogether erroneous; that the system upon which other countries had conducted their public works was essentially right; and that great restrictions should be laid upon the system in this country of prosecuting public works. If he (Mr. Mangles) thought that the spirit of the hon. Gentleman's Motion was confined to railways only, he might regard it as right; but, viewed in connexion with other considerations of public policy, he thought it wrong. The average profits of railways in this country had not exceeded 5½ per cent; and in some lines, the capital not having been paid up, the companies had exercised the power of borrowing; and being able to borrow at a low rate of interest, had been in a condition to pay a higher dividend than if they had not borrowed. If the capital on all the railways had been paid up, he believed that the profits would not have averaged more than 3½ or 4 per cent. There was the Blackwall line, only three miles and a half long, which had been constructed at a cost of 3,000,000 l.; 1235 1236 1237 d. d. d.
 MR. MANGLES , in explanation, denied that he had said anything of the kind. He said that he was able to say that, in the Bill before the House to promote an amalgamation in connection with the Birmingham Railway Company, that company was prepared voluntarily to fix as a maximum the lowest scale of fares.
 MR. ENTWISLE  observed that much had been said in the progress of this discussion which was beside the question. He would not attempt to forestall the subjects for the iuvestigation of the Committee, but content himself with offering a suggestion that had pressed itself upon his own mind. He entertained a strong opinion that it was in consequence of the course of legislation adopted by the House that so many railway schemes had been multiplied, and so much wild speculation created. These were the results of a want of uniformity in the decisions of Committees of that House, of a want of some good sound principles to govern their decisions by which commercial and mercantile men might be able to guide their proceedings. He, therefore, suggested that the Committee to be appointed to consider the future course of legislation should turn their attention to the adoption of some means by which uniformity of decision upon fixed principles might be secured. He hoped the Committee would also enter upon the inquiry whether some preparatory tribunal, external to that House, could not be establishcd,
 1259
 MR. HAYTER  said, his hon. Friend the Member for Inverness had made out no case for the appointment of a Committee; and be very much regretted that the Government had, in the first instance, conceded it, because by so doing they had deprived the House of the opportunity of hearing the grounds on which it was sought to be obtained. He deprecated the incessant agitation of this matter. Whatever inquiries were made, whatever acts consequent upon such inquiries were passed, still it appeared that everything done was to be of but a temporary nature, and that in the following year a new Committee was to sit on the same subject, and another Bill to be introduced altering all that had been before apparently settled. Every security given was each year to be shaken, and parties interested could never know the real ground on which they were to rest. The Act brought in by the right hon. Gentleman the late President of the Board of Trade, giving power to revise the rates, and under certain circumstances to repurchase railways, was, it appeared, to be now thrown aside, and some other Bill to be introduced in its place, founded perhaps on some principle hitherto altogether unheard of. Now what were the grounds on which the hon. Member for Inverness supported his Motion? He said that the public were not sufficiently protected at present—that the railroad proprietors were making such enormous profits that some interference was necessary to keep them within bounds. [An Hon. MEMBEE: No!] That certainly was one of the grounds on which the Motion for the appointment of a Committee was attempted to be justified. But fortunately that matter had been fully investigated by a Committee to whose Report allusion had been already made; and he would take the liberty of quoting a few words from the Appendix to it. Before doing so, however, he would wish to refer to a great mistake which prevailed on this subject. The capital of a railway company consisted not of one, but of two portions. The first was the amount of subscriptions paid up on shares, and the other was that
 1254 l.; l. l., l., l., l. l. l.; l.; l.; l. 1255 l. l. l. 1256
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  said, that it would not be necessary to detain the House with any preface to his Amendment, because it had been adopted by Government, although not precisely in the terms he had employed. He would move, that after the words "medical appliances," these be added, "including nutriment, if necessary for their cure, in the cases where the poor persons are destitute."
 SIR C. NAPIER  had never, during the whole time he had been in the service, heard of a man who was about to be
 1270
 SIR C. NAPIER  wished to ask, if there was any intention on the part of the Government to revise the articles of war. By the articles of war, no man had a right to be punished except by sentence of a court martial; and yet men were constantly brought up for punishment without a trial. It was true, that at the end of the articles of war, there was a clause enacting that all crimes which were not capital should be punished according to the customs of the service. He really was ashamed to read this to the men. But the whole of the articles of war wanted revising, for the punishment of death was almost the only
 1269
 SIR C. NAPIER  said, the punishments were too severe to have the proper effect; and if something was not done to remedy the evil, he should feel it his duty to bring the subject before the House, though he thought it would be much better dealt with by the Admiralty.
 SIR C. NAPIER  said, this was a question which the Government would be compelled to take up before long; and they could not have a better opportunity than the present, when there was no excitement on the subject.
 MR. F. T. BARING  suggested that a very important inquiry might be made by the Committee immediately, whether some means might not be found of reducing the immense expense to which parties were put in proving the Standing Orders, and whether by a joint Committee of both Houses the necessity of proving the same facts twice might not be obviated.
 SIR G. CLERK  agreed in the correctness of the description of the proceedings of the Committee appointed at the commencement
 1250 1251 1252 1253
 SIR G. CLERK  had not been a Member of the Committee of the Board of Trade, and begged to add his testimony in favour of the indefatigable zeal and irreproachable fidelity with which it had discharged its duties. The interference of Government
 1227
 SIR G. COCKBURN  said, that the proposal of the hon. Member for Montrose would obviate many inconveniences with regard to Bills proposing to interfere with navigable rivers.
 SIR G. COCKBURN  contended that the power of punishment vested in the captain, was absolutely necessary for the good order of the service. He objected to Gentlemen who knew nothing of the naval profession getting up and stating that this thing or the other ought to be done; he had much rather discuss the matter with an experienced naval officer like the gallant Member opposite.
 SIR G. COCKBURN  said, there was no fault with the Admiralty; for those deserters who had been retaken had been tried by court martial and severely punished.
 SIR G. COCKBURN  said, although the punishment of death was generally inflicted, yet every article contained the proviso that any such other punishment might be awarded as the custom of the service directed; and it was usual in the case of minor crimes for the captains to deal with them, and inflict such minor punishment as accorded with the nature and degree of the offence. If the offence was of a grave description, then a court martial decided on the punishment.
 SIR G. GREY  thought that the object of the Commission, if appointed, ought to be clearly defined. From the observations of the right hon. Baronet, and from those of the hon. Mover, it might be supposed that it was intended to supersede the functions of the Committee of Classification; but the Commission ought only to be appointed for the purpose of furnishing information, which ought to be referred back to the Committee.
 SIR G. GREY  rose, pursuant to the notice he had given, to ask the hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Admiralty, whether the Admiralty intended to institute any inquiry into the circumstances attending the loss of the Great Liverpool Steamer. As the vessel was not one of Her Majesty's ships, it did not fall directly within the jurisdiction of the Admiralty to institute an inquiry; but as this vessel carried the mails, and had one of Her Majesty's officers on board, a general feeling prevailed that there was a necessity for more than ordinary care, and that an inquiry might properly be instituted by the Admiralty. All he thought it necessary to add was, that he was not desirous of giving pain to any parties; but as a strong feeling prevailed upon the subject, he thought it right to put the question to the hon. and gallant Gentleman.
 SIR G. GREY  merely rose to express his opinion that the subject of amalgamation was one of the utmost importance. The attention of the Government had already been called to the subject; and it was admitted on all hands that there was the greatest hazard in permitting vast amalgamations, lest the object should be not so much the benefit of the public, as the establishment of enormous monopolies. He was of opinion that the Report which had been issued on the subject, should be laid before every Railway Committee of that House.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  moved the Order of the Day for receiving the Report on the Fever (Ireland) Bill. He would take this opportunity of stating, with reference to the intended Amendment of the hon. Member for Rochdale, that, modified as it had been, no objection would be made to it.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  wished to direct attention to one point not unimportant. He understood that two or three schemes, not abandoned, were intended to terminate in the city itself, and not to be extended to the Thames, the greatest highway in the world. In his opinion this stopping short of the river would deprive the station of
 1225
 SIR R. PEEL  had no doubt that the Committee had been influenced by sufficient reasons for the course it had pursued, rather leaving their Chairman to state the grounds of the Motion than to embody them in a report; the consequence, however, was, that it precluded the House frommaturely considering a question, which, submitted by such Committee, could not
 1224
 SIR R. PEEL  observed, that as to the particular proposal, his mind also was made up; and for two or three days past, since the notice had been given, Government had directed its best attention to the subject. It had gone so far as to enter into communication with persons well qualified to form the Commission: so that, although the decision of the House should be postponed till Monday, no time would be lost. As the matter was left to the Chairman of the Committee, it seemed to him a novel
 1226
 SIR R. PEEL  inferred from the speech of the hon. Gentleman, that the course which he, as Chairman of a Railway Committee, would take, would be in conformity
 1262 1263
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, it appeared to him that all the legislation of this country on such subjects had been hitherto founded on a wrong and fallacious basis. They had been in the habit of continually sanctioning gas works, water works, and railways under circumstances where, from the immense amount of the fixed capital embarked in the undertaking, and the small proportion of the working expenses, competition became afterwards absolutely impossible. The effect of competition in the first instance was to induce two capitalists to embark in an undertaking, when one would be sufficient to effect the object. The result was, that in all such cases an amalgamation took place in the course of time, and therefore where a monopoly was thus allowed by the Legislature, they were bound, in a due regard for the public interests, to see that proper conditions were enforced, and proper security given that the public should not ultimately suffer in the arrangement. The Reports of the Sanatory Commission, and of the Health of Towns Committee, showed the injurious tendency of the Private Bill legislation of that House in particular instances, and the absence of all wise and necessary foresight in adopting precautions against the waste and misapplication of capital, by laying down, as a preliminary step, a map of the country, as was done with respect to Ireland, in which the lines of railways that would confer the greatest amount of public advantage would be set forth, and afterwards left open to public competition. The speech of his hon. Friend who had just concluded, had failed in convincing him that the Government of this country had made better terms with
 1257
 MR. REDHEAD YORKE , in pursuance of the Notice he had given, begged leave to ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether he could give any specific information in respect to the return to England of Joseph Mason, who was sentenced to twenty years' transportation at the York March Assizes, in 1843, upon a conviction which turned out to have been given in error, and which was established so to have been given in December, 1845?
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I wish to state, so far as I am concerned, I have no wish to ask for any Papers until the right hon. Gentleman can state that the negotiations
 1280
 The MARQUESS of WORCESTER  spoke as follows: I will not trouble the House long, but I am desirous of stating the reasons which compel me to oppose the present Resolution. I am anxious to accept the challenge thrown out by the right hon. Gentleman the other evening, whether the interests of the producer, as well as those of the consumer, have or have not been benefited by the reduced duties of the Tariff. Now, for this purpose, I will take the first four years immediately preceding the late Tariff, and the four years which have passed since that time, and I find that in the years 1838, 1839, 1840, and 1841, according to  Prince's Price Current, Gazette, l. s. l. s. l. s. d. s. d. 1285 s., s. s., s. s. s., s. s. s., s. s. s., s. s. 1286
 The MARQUESS of WORCESTER : I beg, then, to state, that I shall give a most decided negative to the present Resolution.
 MR. H. HINDE  certainly had expected that, after the noble Lord had stated his objections to the course of the Government, some Member of the Treasury bench would have risen to explain the reasons which induced the Government to propose so great an alteration in the duties on timber. It could hardly be that they underrated its importance, or that, having established the general principles of free trade, they felt that they could not omit this particular article. He would rather have postponed the remarks he wished to make until after the explanation of the Minister had been given; but he did not wish the House to go to a division without stating the grounds upon which he intended to oppose the Resolution. He had had the misfortune to differ from the Government in all the reductions they had made. He believed that the scheme of the Government, though it might be well-intentioned, would prove a futile attempt to promote the general welfare by inflicting an injury upon every interest in detail. Her Majesty's Government prided themselves upon being supported in this Resolution by the shipowners of the country; but he really did not see why such weight should be attached to the opinion of those shipowners, when upon a former occasion they had petitioned the House to an exactly opposite effect. It might perhaps be, that change of opinion without cause assigned found favour with Her Majesty's Government. A fellow-feeling made men wondrous kind; and a close sympathy might exist between a changeable Government and the changeable petitioners. He did not dispute the respectability
 1287 1288 
 
 TONS. 
 1832 British vessels entered inwards 1,936,846 
 1832 Foreign 561,047 
 1845 British 3,669,853 
 1845 Foreign 1,353,739 
 
 1832 British vessels cleared outwards 1,637,093 tons. 
 1832 Foreign 466,333 tons. 
 1845 British 2,947,257 tons. 
 1845 Foreign 1,361,940 tons. 1289 1290 1291
 MR. H. HINDE  explained, that in the return to which he had referred in relation to the steam vessels, the number of ships were not given, so that the remarkable apparent excess in the shipping was (notwithstanding the hon. Gentleman's attempted explanation) still referrible to the frequent voyages of the steamers included in the returns. He further wished to state that the question he had asked of the Government (and which the hon. Member had not attempted to answer) was, "If free trade were carried out fully, giving to other countries all the commercial benefits enjoyed by our Colonies—and we had thus all the burdens of our Colonies without being enabled to derive any advantage therefrom—what would be the good of our Colonies?
 Mr. F. M'KENZIE , although not opposed altogether to the principle of the Bill, trusted the right hon. Gentleman would not press it at so late an hour of the night, because it involved the whole of the licensing system of Scotland.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS , as a naval Member of that House, begged to make some observations upon the subject now before it. He believed that if this measure was carried, a heavy blow would be struck against the North American trade with this country. There was no occasion for him to call the attention of the Government to the maritime interest. He had ever observed that this interest had met with the most
 1297
 Mr. F. MAULE  hoped he might be allowed to take the second reading then, and the discussion upon a future stage of the Bill.
 MR. F. MAULE , in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said, it would have the effect of abolishing the sale of spirituous liquors, &c., at toll bars—a practice which rendered travelling on roads unsafe as well as disagreeable.
 MR. F. SCOTT  also urged the postponement of the Bill.
 LORD G. BENTINCK : In rising, Sir, to support the Amendment which has this night been brought forward with so much honesty of purpose, with so much ability, and with so much perspicuity by my noble Friend the Member for East Gloucestershire (the Marquess of Worcester), I am sure I am but uttering the sentiments of hon. Members, when I say that none could have listened to the observations which fell from that noble Member, and not have felt convinced he has given promise, of eminence in future discussions of this House. I can assure the House that I should not have risen at a quarter past eleven the other night for the purpose of adjournment, had I not been of opinion that the subject of debate was of the most paramount importance. The question before the House appears to me to divide itself into three different heads. First, comes the question of revenue, and the relief of taxation to the people of this country. Secondly, the subject appears to resolve itself into a question how far we should maintain the system of protection to our Colonies, so long afforded them. And, thirdly, Sir, in discussing this question, we are bound to consider whether we shall, or shall not, continue to maintain a national maritime preponderance by the encouragement on that part of our trade, which gives employment to our native seamen. Many returns and statements of figures have been laid before the House by the Ministers of the Crown, and on other occasions by the Board of Trade; and I will commence my observations by endeavouring to show that no dependence can be placed on a superficial view of the figures emanating from the latter. A lamented and illustrious statesman, a relative of mine, made this observation—that the last thing to which he inclined to pay any attention—the last
 1314 l., l. l. 1315 l. l. d. d. d. 1316 d. d. d. d., 1317 "When, however, it is remembered how peculiar was the course of the timber trade, and the mode of preparing deals for the British market under the former law, that we have only two years of the new system before us, and that timber does not come here until after the timber is cut, I think it is evident that another twelvemonth at least must elapse before we can fully appreciate the benefits of the alteration which has been made. As, however, it was confidently predicted by many persons that the consumer would not obtain the benefit of the great reduction of the duties on foreign timber, I have referred to trustworthy sources of information, and have obtained the following results." l. s. d. s., l. s. d. l. s., l. s. d.; l. s. d., s. d. l. s. l.; l. s. s. s. d., s. d. 1318 
 
 per foot. 
 In Jan. 1841 26½d. to 27d. mean 26¾d. 
 In Jan. 1842 24½d. to 25½d. mean 25d. 
 In Jan. 1845 19½d. to 21d. mean 20¼d. d. s. d. d. s. d. s. d. s. s. d. s. d. d., d.; d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. 1319 s. d. 1320 "We admit your cotton manufactures, we admit your woollen manufactures, at 7½ per cent duty, whilst we place 15 per cent upon those of the United States; and if you are about to withdraw
 1321 Montreal Gazette "When Lord John Russell, now some fifteen years ago, came down with a proposition for demolishing the pocket boroughs, an hon. Legislator"—[I well remember the occurrence, for I sat by the side of my old friend Mr. John Smith; for he it was at the time]—"an hon. Legislator said, that the temerity of the proposal 'fairly took his breath away.' The boldness of the financial scheme of Sir Robert Peel, striking at once at provisions, corn, and timber, at every branch of trade in this Colony, on the protection of which the producers had relied, has had something of a similar effect here. The majority yet remain in breathless astonishment, mingled with no little consternation and alarm, and not the less so that we are so remote from the scene of action, that in all probability the deed will be consummated before our remonstrances can be heard. We have at present, however, little time or space at our disposal to speculate on the consequences of the apparently inevitable carrying of the Primier's measure; and we only wish to convey to our English readers what appears to be the impression of the best informed persons in this quarter." 1322 1323 
 
 British ships. Danish Ships. 
 The large Belt 7 2,068 
 Sleswick, Holstein Canal 11 1,318 
 Copenhagan 108 4,068 
 Aalborg nil 22 Coal ships & a few cargoes of salt & iron. 
 126 7,476 1324 1325 1326 Calls of 1327 "The flag that braved a thousand years The battle and the breeze."
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I wish, on this occasion to ask the right hon. Gentleman a question with respect to the course to be pursued with the Bill for the repeal of the Corn Law. Eight weeks have now elapsed since Her Majesty made Her Gracious Speech from the Throne. The right hon. Gentleman, after making his first statement of the measure he intended to bring forward, allowed a fortnight for its consideration, before any discussion of it was called for. Three weeks were then engaged in a preliminary discussion; and after that the Bill was introduced. It does seem to me, therefore, that after so much discussion, the right hon. Gentleman would be perfectly justified in doing that which he declared it was his intention to do, namely, to go on with the discussion of that Bill, from day to day, until the measure should be brought to a close. I should have thought it unnecessary to mention this, had it not been that another right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, stated, in answer to a question put to him the other evening, that it was his intention, on the first day after the second reading of the Corn Bill, to propose the first reading of the Bill for the Protection of Life in Ireland. Now, I could very well understand how, if it was thought that the Corn Bill was of such urgency that all other measures should be postponed to it, that the right hon. Gentleman should have postponed this measure relating to Ireland, and have gone on with the Corn Bill until it was finally disposed of. But such I do not understand to be the intention of the right hon. Gentleman; and such being the case, I think the passing of that Bill will not be hastened a single day by the postponement of the Bill for altering the Corn Law. And on other grounds, I think there will be great inconvenience from longer delaying this measure. If the third reading of the Corn Bill have to be postponed for the first reading of the Irish Bill, that third reading might have
 1281
 MR. A. CHAPMAN  said, having sat on every maritime or mercantile Committee of that House for the last thirty years, and having had more communication with the shipping interest than most Members (besides his own personal connexion with it), he ventured to express his opinions on the subject, in which he had acquired some considerable practical experience. It had formerly been the policy of the British Government to encourage the enterprise of our own subjects and colonists, with the view of securing sure supplies of the great necessaries of commerce, especially timber; and under the protection conferred, with
 1296
 MR. C. BULLER : Sir, I think I may ask the indulgence of the House while I make a few remarks on this question; inasmuch as I believe I am almost the only Member that has not taken part in this free-trade debate. I felt myself so incompetent to deal with these commercial and financial questions, that I thought I might leave them in better hands; but from what I have heard of the debate, and from what I have read in the reports, I think I understood them quite as well as some others. From the circumstances in which I am placed in relation to Canada, and the great interest I have always taken in colonial questions, I am induced to trouble the House with a few remarks upon the bearings of this question on colonial policy—the rest of it, I think, has been triumphantly disposed of. Before, however, I enter upon the discussion of the manner in which the noble Lord has treated this question as regards colonial policy, I will say just five words upon the mode in which he has dealt with it as bearing upon foreign policy. When the noble Lord unfurled the union-jack of the protection party, he might have recollected the altered position in which he now stands, as the leader of a great, and, as he says, a patriotic party, and have assumed some of the gravity and prudence which ought to belong to the leader of a great party. I much more admire the tone, as regards our foreign policy, which has been adopted by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, and the noble Lord with whom I usually act; and, however the noble Lord (Lord G. Bentinck) may disprove of the course they have taken, I think it would have been far wiser, instead of attacking the American Senate and the Royal Family of France, to have followed the example of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, who, on this subject, generally maintains a dignified silence, but who, when compelled to say anything, always uses the language of dignified courtesy; and who, in order to prevent war, has laid the foundations of peace by an extension of our commercial relations with those countries. I say it is far wiser so to act, than to get up bandying bombast with the braggarts of the American Congress; and almost justifying the vagaries of Mr. Adams, by adopting a tone of congenial bluster. I did venture, by a cheer and a shake of the head, to express my dissent, when the noble Lord said that the policy of the Government is causing, in the Canadas, the discussion of the propriety of
 1335 Montreal Post, 1336 1337 1338 1339 d. 1340
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the question before the House, is whether the House will agree to the proposed Resolution. If the noble Lord intends to oppose the Resolution, his proper course will be simply to negative the Resolution.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that his hon. Friend who had just sat down, commenced his observations by recommending to the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government, a course which would have evinced much sounder discretion than moving that the petition from the shipowners should be printed; and he went on to say that these petitioners had changed their opinions, and that he believed that if they were asked to sign a petition, before the present measure had been announced to Parliament, they would have retained their former opinions, and would have signed a petition quite in opposition to the present measure. Why, did not his hon. Friend perceive that if gentlemen largely engaged in the shipping interests had changed their opinions, and had come forward solemnly to record that change of opinion, did he not see that everybody must necessarily attach increased force to that statement from a change in their opinions? If that had been done by gentlemen, not from their own convictions, but because Her Majesty's Government had announced the measure, did he not perceive the natural conclusion which that change led to? Did he not perceive how great the confidence must be on the part of those commercial gentlemen in those who proposed this measure, if on no better ground they thought it worth while to come forward in the face of Parliament and the country to withdraw opinions, which on former occasions they had solemnly recorded? Let him ask his hon. Friend, before he advised sounder discretion to Her Majesty's Ministers, what he would think of the discretion of an hon. Gentleman, who being entrusted with a different petition, moved that it be printed, when that petition contained a statement of this kind? Referring to 1842 it said, that petitions were presented to the Government and the Legislature by these very same parties, then, as now, purporting to be persons connected and conversant with the shipping interest. It recites that by those parties it was then universally contended, that the reduction of the discriminating duty to 25 s. 1292 s. s. s.; s. 1293 l. l.; 
 
 In 1843 £68,000 
 In 1844 71,000 
 In 1845 94,000 s. s. maximum, 1294 
 
 1838 305 vessels 160,000 tons. 
 1842 165 vessels 91,000 tons. 
 1845 453 vessels 239,000 tons. 
 
 1838 15,000,000 
 1842 9,000,000 
 1845 28,000,000 
 
 March, 1833 Same prices all round. 
 February, 1844 
 February, 1840 15 per cent. added to the foregoing. 
 1841 
 1842 and to 
 March, 1843 
 December 1843 Reduction of 15 per cent on timber, plank, and treenails; 7½ on thick stuff. 
 January, 1846 Increase of 22½, on 1843. 
 Same as 1840–1842. 
 15 per cent above 1833. s. 1295
 MR. G. PALMER  said, that the question before the House appeared to him to be of vital importance—it concerned an interest which had been attacked by the free traders. But the present measure was fraught with much mischief to every interest of the country, more particularly, however, to the shipping interest. He should endeavour to show to the House, that in no one instance had it been beneficial. The right hon. Baronet might not have all the responsibility on his shoulders of the evil that would attend the passing of this measure, although he seemed as if he
 1298 l. l. 1299 s. s. s., s. 1300 quid pro quo.
 MR. WARBURTON , having been at a former period of his life connected with the timber trade, wished to take that opportunity of complimenting Her Majesty's Government on the great improvements that they had already effected, and were now effecting in that trade. Formerly all deals paid the same amount of duty, no matter what their dimensions might be. Thus a deal seven feet long, nine inches wide, and one and a half inches thick, paid the same duty as a deal sixteen feet long, three inches thick, and eleven inches wide. The Government were, however, at length induced to abolish this absurd distinction; and since 1842 deals were allowed to be introduced at a rate of duty varying according to their cubic dimensions. He would beg to draw the attention of the House for a moment to the effect of the differential duty between Colonial and European timber, as settled by the Tariff of 1842. Prior to that period this duty had been 45 s.: s. 1301 s. s. s. s. s. s., s. s. s. s. 1302 s. s., s., s. s. s. s. 1303 1304 l.; l.; l.: l.; l.; l. s. s.
 MR. HENLEY  could not agree with what had been stated by the hon. Member for Kendal, that the measures adopted with regard to timber during the last two or three years had involved no loss to the revenue; because they would find that the average amount of revenue derived from timber in the years 1840 to 1842 had amounted to between 1,300,000 l. l.; l. l.; l. l. 1308 vice versâ. 1309
 MR. HUME  concurred in opinion with the hon. Gentleman, that if the agricultural interest was entirely freed from protection, it was only right that the shipowners should be placed in a similar situation, that they should have the power of buying in the cheapest market, and selling in the dearest; and he would support any proposition the hon. Member might bring forward for effecting that object. He (Mr. Hume) complained of the proposal now before the House, though on very different grounds from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He complained that the duty was not entirely removed. He knew of no raw material which it was more important for the general interests of the community to render
 1310 l. 1311 l. l. s., l., 1312 1313
 MR. BORTHWICK  agreed with the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down as to the propriety of cultivating friendly intercourse with Norway; but he thought there was a still stronger reason for encouraging friendly relations with Canada. The hon. Gentleman said this was a shipowners' question. He protested against its being considered a question of shipowners or of any other class. It was the vice of the new measure that the great masses of the people which it affected were considered as classes having separate interests. It was not in his view either a colonial or a shipowners' question, but an Imperial question. As the hon. Gentleman had alluded to the prices of timber, he too would quote figures respecting our colonial and foreign timber trade. In 1841 the price of Canadian timber was 4 l. s. l. s. l., l. l. l. s. d. 
 
 Freight £2 0 0 
 Charges 0 5 0 
 Duty 0 10 0 
 The selling price was 4 10 0 1305 l. s., l. s. d. l. s. l. s. 
 
 Freight £1 2 6 
 Duty 1 5 0 
 Charges 0 2 6 l., l. s. 
 
 Freight £2 2 0 
 Charges 0 7 0 
 Duty 0 1 0 l., l. s. l. s. d. l. s.; s. l. l., s., 1306
 MR. BORTHWICK  rose, in pursuance of the notice he had given, to propose a question to the right hon. Gentleman at the head of Her Majesty's Government; and he trusted the House would, in consideration of the very great importance of the subject, allow him to make a few observations in explanation of the nature of the question he intended to put. At the beginning of the present Session of Parliament Her Majesty was graciously pleased, from the Throne, to express her regret,
 "That the conflicting claims of Great Britain and the United States, in respect to the territory on the North-western coast of America, although they had been made the subject of repeated negotiation, still remained unsettled." "That it was Her Majesty's purpose to continue all such efforts as might be consistent with national honour to bring the question to an early and peaceful termination." 1278 1279
 MR. WYSE  wished to put three questions to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, of which he had given notice. The first had reference to a very important measure, which formed a principal feature of the Bill he had introduced in 1831, and had subsequently been strongly recommended in the Report of the Committee on Education in 1838. He meant the incorporation of the Board of National Education, as an indispensable means to enable the Board to exercise its functions with proper effect, by empowering it to take land and build schools in districts which, from poverty and other circumstances, might otherwise be deprived of them; and farther to improve and extend generally the advantages of education. He understood from the right hon. Baronet, in the course of the last Session, that that desirable object would be immediately and fully carried into effect. His second question was directed to an subject of hardly less moment—the efficient provision for a higher scale of elementary education, immediately above the ordinary elementary school; and this also had been guaranteed by the Government during the last Session, by a promise to establish forthwith, through the intervention of the Board of Education, thirty-two model schools, distributed through the several counties of Ireland. The object to which his third question had relation was, especially under the present and future circumstances of Ireland, in no wise inferior in its influence on the social and moral character of the people, or of less consequence than either of the others; he referred to
 1276
 SIR G. CLERK  said, it was not his intention to trespass long upon the patience of the House; neither would he, in the few observations he had to make, travel far from the question, but, on the contrary, strictly confine himself to the proposition before the House. If he might be permitted, he would be glad to state, that the question now under consideration was, whether upon any article not a primary necessary of life, but conducive, in a great measure, to the health and comfort of all classes of the community, they ought to reduce a duty amounting to 35 per cent—not to take it away, but to retain a protective duty upon an article of an inferior description, which they could obtain from their own Colonies. The noble Lord who had last addressed the House, objected to the reduction of duty upon three grounds, viz., loss to the revenue, injury to our colonial dependencies, and the necessity that existed for maintaining our supremacy at sea. The hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) had also objected to the change, on the ground that a certain
 1328 s. s. s. s.; s. s., s. s., s. s. s. 1329 l. s. s., l. l.; l.; l.; s. s. l.; l.; l.; d. 1330 s. s., 1331 l. l. l. l. l. "If the restrictions on the British shipowners were removed—if, for instance, we had formerly our timber and provisions on the same terms that we now have them, the foreigner would never have made the advances in shipping which he has done. If we were only but on an equality with foreigners with respect to the raw materials, I think we could cope with the ships of any nation, though we pay double the taxation." "I think we can work our ships 30 per cent cheaper since the Tariff. We can now better afford to go to Quebec for a consignment of timber at 30 s. s. s. 1332 1333
 SIR HUGH CAMPBELL  begged to say, that he was entirely opposed to the principle of the measure, and he looked
 1343
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM , in reply to the first question, stated that he had the satisfaction of being enabled to inform the hon. Gentleman and the House, that the charter of incorporation for the Board of National Education in Ireland had been issued on the 7th of August last; and as
 1277
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM , in reply, said, that the statement to which the hon. Gentleman had alluded had been made soon after the trial of Joseph Mason had taken place, upon the ground of the verdict having been erroneous. When that representation had been made at the Home Office, he had at once consulted with the learned Judge before whom the prisoner had been tried, and with his counsel. Information was given to him (Sir J. Graham) that an alibi could be satisfactorily established; but he thought that it would be contrary to the practice of the Home Office to enter into such an  ex parte 1275
 SIR R. PEEL : Mr. Speaker, I do not think it necessary to make any observation on the general subject to which the hon. Gentleman has referred. I think any explanation to be wholly unnecessary, because I am perfectly convinced that the expressions used by Her Majesty in Her gracious Speech from the Throne, and the expressions used by public men in this House and elsewhere, of either political party, have not been misconstrued in the United States. I do not think that there would be any public advantage, in the present state of the differences existing between this country and the United States as to the Oregon territory, in making any communication to this House; and it is not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to make any such communication. At the same time the Executive Government of the United States, having a distinct proposition to make to the other branches of the Legislature of that country, have made a communication to the Legislature, containing certain notes that have passed between Mr. Buchanan and Mr. Pakenham. And although I should not have thought it necessary to lay those documents before this House, still as they have been made public, it may be thought necessary by the House, for the sake of authenticating those documents, that they should be produced; I therefore shall have no objection to lay these communications, to which publicity has already been given, before the House. We have no proposition to make to the Legislature on the part of Her Majesty's Government concerning the present questions pending between the United States and this country, the negotiations about which have not yet been brought to a conclusion. It is quite unusual to lay official despatches before the House, or to make communications respecting negotiations that have not been brought to a conclusion. But, certainly, since those communications have been made public, it may be right for this House to ascertain whether they are authentic or not; and although Her Majesty's Government do not intend, of their own Motion, to lay them before the House, yet, if the House itself wishes that they should be produced, I am ready to comply with that wish.
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, I can assure the noble Lord that I never felt greater anxiety with regard to the progress of a measure, than I do with regard to the progress of the Corn Bill. I have received communications from many parts of the country, from those even who are adverse to the policy of Her Majesty's Government, earnestly desiring that some decision on the Corn Bill should be come to. In the first place, there are many who feel that, on account of the state of the crop in this country, there would be the greatest advantage in having free access to that corn which is now in bond, in order that it may be mixed with the corn of this country which is not in a state for making the finest flour. And on that account, on account of the peculiar state of our harvest, there is especial inconvenience in delaying the decision of Parliament with regard to the duties which shall attach to foreign corn; because it is quite clear that, in the expectation that foreign corn will be admitted at a duty of 4 s. s. 1282 1283
 SIR R. PEEL : May I be allowed to add a few words on another subject? I said yesterday, that I would to-day give notice of the course which will be taken on Monday with regard to the proposal of my hon. Friend the Member for North Lancashire
 1284
 MR. H. HINDE  would have liked to have seen the weight of the Government displayed more energetically in favour of the recommendations of the Board of Trade, which he thought were made with great judgment and discretion. He thought that the suggestion which had been just thrown out by the right hon. Baronet would remove a great many of the objections which he had entertained to the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for North Lancashire; but he considered it would be a still greater improvement if the proposed Committee were made to perform
 1429
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he agreed with the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. It
 1431
 MR. COLLETT  said, that the result of the amalgamation of the London and Birmingham and the Grand Junction Companies had been an immediate reduction of fares, which proved to be beneficial to all parties. He thought that the principle of amalgamation should be encouraged. He did not think there was any danger of monopoly, because railway directors now found it their interest to adopt the system of low fares.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  did not wish to enter upon a general discussion on this subject;
 1438
 SIR J. Y. BULLER  hoped the House would not think he was intruding on its time, if, on the present occasion, he occupied it for a few minutes. In the year 1842, he supported the proposals of the Government, and he had done so because he had felt that it was for the advantage of
 1448 1449
 CAPTAIN BERKELEY  said, that he had entered that House believing that the Corn Laws, as they were then constituted, were for the good of the country, though he had always voted with the hon. Member for Wolverhampton for an inquiry into them, as he conceived that such an inquiry was just and right. However, when he found that the noble Lord whose political opinions had generally guided his own, united with the right hon. Gentleman opposite, who, he might say, was one of the greatest statesmen of his time, for one purpose, in which neither of them, especially the right hon. Gentleman, could have any personal interest, he, as a practical man, without pretending to understand, as some hon. Gentleman opposite had pretended to understand, political economy, felt himself
 1467
 MR. FOX MAULE  hoped the House would allow him to make a few observations upon this question. He did so from feeling it was right that those who were connected solely with the landed property of the country, and who had nothing else to look to, ought to state the grounds upon which they supported the proposition of Her Majesty's Government. He could not say of that proposition that it had his entire and cordial approval, because it did not go to the extent he wished it to proceed. It fell short of that which he considered requisite to remedy the difficulties it was proposed to meet; but nevertheless, such as it was, he for one accepted it with gratitude, and he should endeavour to give it his most cordial support. He had listened to the hon. Gentleman who proposed the Amendment, and he confessed he felt some difficulty in accounting for the statement he had made with reference to the feelings this measure had created, not only in the breasts of landlords, but in the breasts of farmers and agricultural labourers on this side the Tweed. It had been his duty, ever since the measure had been proposed, to investigate the feelings which existed towards it in that country and among that class to which he more immediately belonged; and he had no hesitation in publicly declaring that the result of that investigation had been this—not only was there no panic among the landlords, or among the farmers, but in spite of all that had been said, agricultural arrangements were proceeding with an increased activity from day to day. He would state to the House, in reference to the observations which had fallen from the other side, a practical example of that which he had mentioned. When this proposition was first made, a document was laid before a public meeting emanating from one to whom, however he might have sometimes differed upon the means he took to advocate this question, he had no hesitation in saying the country was under a very deep debt of gratitude for his exertions. He meant the hon. Member for Stockport. The letter which that hon. Gentleman addressed to the farmers of the kingdom, shortly after this measure was proposed, had been widely canvassed in his
 1459 1460 l. l. l. 1461
 MR. F. MAULE  wished to call the attention of the House to a difficulty which existed. The Committee moved for by his hon. Friend (Mr. Patten), and the one appointed on the Motion of the Member for Inverness, ought to be kept distinct, and the report of the one ought not to interfere with that of the other. The difficulty which he saw was, that the opinions of the Committee now moved for might clash with those of the Group Committees, who were to decide on the proposed amalgamations. In his opinion the Committee of his hon. Friend should lay down certain rules of amalgamation, and the Group Committees would consider the proposals subject to those rules. From what he had seen of the Amalgamation Bills before the House this present Session, it appeared to him quite clear that all further progress in them should be suspended until the House should come to some defined determination.
 MR. CHOLMONDELEY , in venturing to offer to the House a very few remarks upon the important question which now occupied its attention, might perhaps be permitted to allude for one moment to a subject to which an hon. Member had referred; the allusion was to a subject which he had had no intention of introducing—a dissolution of Parliament upon this question. There might be many grave objections urged against such a course; but still he could not but think, in spite of those objections, that such a course would have been most safe and most advisable. He might be told that it would be unconstitutional and dangerous — that the House of Commons stood to the country in precisely the same relative position as an individual Member stood to his constituents, and that the same considerations which would prevent the Representative from consulting his constituents as to a particular vote, ought to withhold the House from appealing to the country on this particular question. All this he had no doubt was theoretically true; but how did the matter stand when we came to practical results? He thought it might be fairly illustrated by one particular case—the case of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government. On one memorable occasion the right hon. Gentleman had felt it necessary to resign his trust into the hands of those who had committed it to him. He had told the House the other night that he then thought he had taken a wrong course. That might have been the case constitutionally; but did the right hon. Gentleman wish what he had done undone? He
 1462 1463 1464 1465 "— play fast and loose with faith, And make unconstant children of ourselves,"
 LORD H. VANE  thought that the adoption of the suggestion of the hon. Member for Montrose would be of the greatest advantage. When they saw railway companies possessing so much money that they would be likely to command the communication of the country, the House ought to be cautious how they sanctioned those Amalgamation Bills. He did not see how any evils could result from postponing Amalgamation Bills, even for the present Session.
 MR. PACKE  observed, that the hon. Member who had last addressed the House expressed a hope with respect to the appropriation of the funds of the Anti-Corn-Law League. He, however, believed that those funds had been raised for the purpose of agitation, and that they never would be applied to any other purpose. Much as he admired the tact and ability of the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury, and often as he had supported him upon the other side of the House, and frequently upon this (the Ministerial) side of the House, yet he was compelled to say he had not as yet heard a single argument adduced in favour of a repeal of the Corn Laws. The present state of Ireland had been alluded to as a reason for the proposal of the present measure affecting corn; but he, for one, declared that he could see no connection between a remedy for the distresses of the people of Ireland, and the total repeal of the Corn Laws on the 1st day of February, 1849. The right hon. Baronet had maintained that another powerful argument in favour of free trade was to be found in the national prosperity that had existed for the past three years under the system of relaxed duties. The hon. Member who had just sat down also remarked, that the consequences of such relaxation had been so encouraging that he was prepared to record his vote in favour of still further reductions. Why, did not the hon. Member know that the prosperity of the past three years had been in consequence of that very protection which it was now sought to abolish? Nevertheless, that prosperity was adduced as an argument in favour of free trade. This prosperity had likewise been brought about by the prosperous harvest, and the increased production of the land under an improved system of agriculture. But if the law of 1842 was now to be altered, faith would be broken with the farmers, who had invested their capital believing that protection would be
 1457 1458
 MR. E. YORKE  said, he might well have been deterred by the difficulty of this subject from taking such a prominent part in it; but he was warned by the petition which he held in his hand, signed as it had been by an immense number of his most influential constituents interested in agriculture, not as he had heretofore done, to give a silent vote upon the question, lest the truth of the opinion he held, as to the
 1441 1442 l., s. s. 1443 s. s. s. s. s. s. d. 1444 s. d. s. s. l. s. d., l. s. d., l. s. d. l. d. 1445 1446 Dispatch, arbiter elegantiarum l.; 1447 "He stood alone amidst his band, Without one trusting heart or hand."
 MR. M'GEACHY  could not shelter himself under the wing of that most extraordinary doctrine which had been laid down by the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool, a doctrine mischievous in proportion to the respectability and weight of the quarter from which it had proceeded. Surely it was as individuals that they were responsible, and not as Members of any one sect or party. It might be true that every man in England who had sat in Her Majesty's Councils as a Cabinet Minister, with scarcely an exception, was now agreed as to the impolicy of continuing the existing Corn Laws. Still that would be no justification of his vote in favour of this measure, unless he were himself convinced, as convinced he was, that the measure was in itself both politic and just. In the exercise of an unfettered and dispassionate judgment, and with an earnest and most anxious desire to arrive at a just conclusion upon the subject, he approached the consideration of this important question. Having voted for those alterations in the Tariff which were equally with the present measures of the Government objected to by the protectionist party, and having seen the good effects produced by those alterations, he confessed that he thought there was every encouragement to proceed in the same course, and to attend to that recommendation in the Speech from the Throne which was directly controverted by the Amendment now before the House. The question was not merely of importance in its commercial hearings—a light in which it was too exclusively regarded by the hon. Member for Durham and his associates, but, now that it had been involuntarily proposed to that House by the present Ministry, of still greater importance in its political bearing. It was necessary to look at the question in both points of view; and first for the political part of the case, the importance of which he frankly admitted could not be overrated. In a free country, there was no evil so great, in his opinion, as a loss of confidence on the part of the people in public men. Were there any, he would ask, amongst those who declaimed so noisily on these topics now, who had ever reconsidered a vote, or rescinded a decision, in order to maintain in office a Minister who, as they deemed, would guarantee the maintenance of the existing Corn Laws? He never supported the Minister in the moment of his power
 1450 "I thought it unfair and dishonourable, under the impression that the noble Lord the Member for London would be the Minister, not to take those steps which I thought would diminish his embarrassments." —"offering the assurance of his perfect readiness to support, if proposed by others, those measures which he had himself deemed necessary"— "That with regard to any increased estimates which the position of the country might render necessary, he would assume any degree of responsibility, present or retrospective, which could fairly attach to him." 1451 1452 "They are not under a false show of liberty, but in truth to exercise an unnatural, inverted domination, tyrannically to exact from those who officiate in the State, not an entire devotion to their interests, which is their right, but an abject submission to their occasional will, extinguishing thereby, in all those who serve them, all moral principle, all sense of dignity, all use of judgment, all consistency of character, whilst, by the very same process, they give themselves up, a proper, a suitable, but a most contemptible prey to the servile ambition of popular sycophants, or courtly flatterers." 1453 "—Mutato nomine, de te Fabula narratur." "We may lay it down that the popular counsel given in our days to Governments is continually to favour the development of industry; it is to this point that we are now to make all our studies converge. But, according to our views, it is to higher objects that Government should direct its aims; it is upon the whole of what constitutes the national well-being; it is upon the relations, upon the proportions which ought to exist between different conditions, between different classes of citizens, in order that they may mutually aid each other, that all may supply the wants the one of the other; that all may unite hope to the feeling of security; that all, in short, may be enabled, by the development of their energies, to enjoy activity in calm." 1454 "The accounts received of incendiary fires in Suffolk are so alarming that I feel it my duty to call the attention of the clergy of my diocese in that county to this distressing state of things. At one of the late fires in Suffolk, it is reported that there were great crowds of women and children who jeered the men who were laudably engaged in working the engines; and, as the different parts of the roof gave way, and the flames burst forth with greater violence, they showed their gratification by loud cheering. I am sure that this communication will be read with great sorrow by every conscientious parish priest, and will prove to him the necessity for increased exertions to check this flagrant wickedness." "Causa latet—vis est notissima." 1455 1456
 MR. H. VERNON  said, that if, as it had been argued, Parliament was not in a state competent to judge of this measure, it was the duty of the House to address Her Majesty, praying Her to dissolve the Parliament; and if such an Amendment had been moved instead of that the Bill be read a second time that day six months, it would have been more consonant with the views expressed by hon. Gentlemen. He himself stood in a position of some peculiarity; for he was obnoxious to those shafts to which hon. Members were exposed who had heretofore been ranged on the side of protection, and who had felt compelled, by an imperative sense of duty, to take another course—a course which was not the most congenial to his sentiments, nor most accordant with his foregone conclusions. He had come down to the House the other night in the hope that a 5 s. s. 1466
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the question before the House was, how were they to deal with those Amalgamation Bills which were before the House during the present Session? He confessed, after the discussion which had taken place, that he agreed with his right hon. Friend the Member for Devonport, that the House had better not appoint any Committee to consider that question; the question respecting amalgamations generally was one of importance, and, for his own part, he was inclined to think that railroads, like other things, were likely to be managed better on a great scale than otherwise. But that was not the question. The question was, how they were to deal with the amalgamations actually before the House in the present Session of Parliament? He thought they could not have a safer guide than the principles laid down in the Report presented to the House two Sessions ago. He would prefer leaving the matter in the hands of the Government to those of the House.
 MR. MORRISON  thought that a railway which came before Parliament, and proposed an amalgamation with another, should, to a certain extent, be treated as a new line, and Parliament should impose any conditions it thought proper for the security and benefit of the public. Some general regulations should be applied to all railways; amongst others uniformity of fares for passengers, and of charges for the carriage of goods, &c. He considered that Parliament had a right to deal with amalgamations as it thought fit, and to impose upon them whatever new conditions it thought proper.
 MR. CHILDERS  gave his approbation to the present measure, under the conviction that the price of corn in this country would not be at all reduced by a system of free trade. A return which was prepared at the Foreign Office last year, proved, on the authority of our Consuls, that the price of bread in England was as low as in any part of the world. It was a fact that bread in London was chaper than in Ostend and Antwerp, and that the steamers plying between England and Belgium invariably laid in their stock of bread in London. The price of inferior bread at Dantzic was 2½ d. d., d., d. d. s. s. d.; s. d.
 MR. W. PATTEN  said, that he had endeavoured to alter the terms of his Motion, so as to meet what he collected from the discussion to be the general feeling of
 1432 "That a Select Committee be appointed to consider the principle of amalgamation as applied to the Railway and Canal Bills, now under the consideration of Parliament."
 MR. J. W. PATTEN  moved, pursuant to notice—
 "That a Select Committee be appointed to consider how far, and under what regulations, the further Amalgamation of Railways would be consistent with a due regard to the commercial and general interests of the Country." 1421 1422 1423
 MR. HUME  would suggest that no more amalgamations should be permitted till the Committee had made its Report. He did not think that any mischief could be done by adopting such a course, but, on the contrary, great benefit might accrue from it. He thought they might be in the hands of a few monopolists sooner than they were aware of.
 MR. P. M. STEWART  thought the Amalgamation Bills should be grouped together, and a competent Committee of five appointed, who should determine on the merits of the Bills, instead of subjecting the Amalgamation Bills to a second and remote trial hereafter. He would suggest that all the Amalgamation Bills should be extracted from the groups in which they had been placed, and that one group should be made of them, which should be referred to the Committee he had just suggested, who should go into the merits and demerits of these Amalgamation Bills, and
 1430
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  thought that some principles should be laid down for the guidance of Committees with respect to amalgamations. There were two kinds of amalgamations—those which were made for the public interest, and those which were made for private benefit. With respect to the latter, the House ought to interpose. Supposing, for instance, that the London and Birmingham, or the Eastern Counties Company, were to buy up the London and York, if it were made, that would be no amalgamation for the benefit of the public, but the giving a monopoly to whoever had the longest purse.
 MR. ENTWISLE  said, it appeared to him highly desirable that some rule should be laid down by the House, in order that railway companies might know, before their application to Parliament, on what grounds they were to proceed in order that their measures might pass. It would be found on investigation that the acts of amalgamation proposed were, in many instances—he might almost say, most of them—of a purely defensive character. He was sure that, if such a Committee were formed, the principles laid down by them would be not only beneficial to the companies interested in the different amalgamations, but also to the country generally. He would most cordially support the Motion of the hon. Member for North Lancashire.
 MR. F. T. BARING  agreed with the right hon. Baronet that this subject was one, no doubt, of great difficulty and importance. The question, however, embraced two points: first, how they ought to lay down rules for the present Session; and, secondly, how they ought to provide for future cases. He doubted, with regard to Railway Bills now before the House, whether another proposition would not provide a better plan, namely, that of selecting a Committee of five, to whom all Amalgamation Bills should be referred, and giving them the power, in cases of unopposed Bills, of sending for witnesses, and of communicating with the Board of Trade. If the Committee now moved for were appointed, the House would perhaps get no Report this Session, or at best a very hurried Report, which could be of no present use. The right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Clerk) had said, that the Report of the Board of Trade last year had not been sufficiently attended to by the House. That very Report stated, as to laying down general rules for amalgamation, that "nothing could be more difficult than to lay down any general principles by which all amalgamations should be regulated." They would have the same uncertainty now; and he was afraid they could not settle the rules for amalgamation until they had settled the general principles of railway legislation. If they were prepared to rely upon the principle of competition alone, then following that one principle, they must reject all amalgamations; for if they allowed amalgamation at all, they violated the principle of competition. But if they reserved some power
 1426
 SIR G. CLERK  said, that the question to which the Member for North Lancashire called the attention of the House was one of paramount importance, because, as was said in a discussion arising out of the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Inverness, unless they were now prepared to take certain precautions against the abuse of those powers which Government granted to railway companies, in the course of a few years they would find all means of communication vested in the hands of certain companies who would be placed beyond the control of the Legislature. But he confessed that though he thought it desirable that a Committee should be formed for the purpose of laying down certain principles of railway legislation, yet he did not gather from the speech of his hon. Friend what appeared to him (Sir G. Clerk) to be the object of the investigation
 1424 1425
 SIR G. GREY  thought the Government ought not to interfere in ordinary cases with a private Bill. If rules were laid down for the amalgamation of Private Bills by the Board of Trade, he was sure that the House would be disposed to support such rules, and have its Committees guided by them. It would be well to have rules laid down for the purpose of securing uniformity. If a general principle was laid down and sanctioned by the House, the Committees would have little difficulty in acting upon it. If there was a preliminary Committee which performed its functions as the Board of Trade did last year, that Committee might take a view of all the Amalgamation Bills, and say whether they could not come within general rules. If that was done, there would be no necessity for discussion on the second reading; and he hoped the inquiries of the Committee would be limited to some particular object.
 MR. PAKINGTON , as a Member of the Classification Committee, begged to say that the object of that Committee, in bringing the matter before the House, was to call its attention to the magnitude of the subject. The question of amalgamation was one of the most important connected with the whole railway subject, especially as the present proposed amalgamations exceeded in extent anything of the kind proposed before, for there were no less than thirty-three Amalgamation Bills. He was quite willing to adopt the course recommended by the right hon. Baronet.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, he had two other questions to ask on the same subject. About two centuries ago the Dutch sailed up the Medway, much in the same manner in which Her Majesty's fleet sailed up the River Plate. He would ask, whether that was considered war? Subsequently another fleet, being the combined squadrons of Russia, France, and England, blockaded anotherfort, entered another harbour, and destroyed, another fleet—namely, the fleet of Turkey. Was that considered war? He could see no distinction between these cases. Would it satisfy the friends of peace to say that we were not at war, when ships were taken, and many lives lost in the gallant achievements of Captain Hotham and his friend Captain Hope? Would it satisfy the Quakers to be told that, when all the circumstances of war occurred, as at Navarino and in the Medway, when there was so much loss of human life, and the capture of an enemy's ships, this was all done, and yet that we were in a state of profound peace? He was at a loss to know what was war, if this was not.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that the hon. and gallant Officer (Hon. Capt. Berkeley), who preceded him, had by his political life in general, and by one memorable vote in particular, entitled himself to respect in all his other Parliamentary proceedings, for earnestness and sincerity, even where he did not carry conviction to his hearers. As to his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Vernon), who preceded the gallant Officer, he (Sir R. H. Inglis) would not follow his speech further than to say, that one more full of the personal confessions of a public man, of the private narrative of his travels, of an  eloge 1468 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1469 l. s. d. s. l. 1470 1471 "—Whose impartial view, Thy interests, Britain, ranks with thine, Peru."
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, I trust the noble Lord and the House will feel that no formal notice having been given upon this subject, it is much better I should limit myself, as far as I possibly can, to the questions of the noble Lord, than that I should provoke any discussion upon the state of our relations with Buenos Ayres and Monte Video. I propose, therefore, to avoid argument upon the subject, and to confine myself to the questions which the noble Lord was good enough to intimate he would put to me. I need scarcely
 1434 1435 1436 1437
 SIR R. PEEL : The records of the year 1827 will show that the action fought at Navarino did not constitute war between Turkey
 1439
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, I have two petitions to present to the House; one from Liverpool, in which the petitioners state that the commercial interests of the country are materially prejudiced by the delay of the Legislature in pronouncing a decision in regard to the commercial measures now before them. I am assured that no petition ever left Liverpool more respectably signed; that it received the signatures of the leading men of all political parties; and that some of them are those of gentlemen who have been opposed to our measures, but who now give in their adhesion to the proposals of the Government. The petition received in the course of a few hours 414 signatures of the leading gentlemen in Liverpool. Every banking-house
 1440 "That your petitioners, while they disclaim all interference with due deliberation in matters of such vast importance, would humbly pray that an end may be put to their suspense by passing into a law, as speedily as possible, the measures proposed by Her Majesty's Government, and which your petitioners verily believe will prove highly beneficial to the interests of this vast commercial Empire." l. "In common with the entire manufacturing and commercial interests of the country, they have observed with the liveliest satisfaction the wise and comprehensive measures introduced by Her Majesty's Government—measures which will tend greatly to benefit this densely-populated district." "To put an end to the doubt and uncertainty now existing, and to prevent the occurrence of commercial disasters which may seriously cripple the industry and resources of the country, by immediately passing into a law the Customs and Corn Importation Act."
 SIR R. PEEL  said, the right hon. Gentleman seemed to think that Her Majesty's Government had neglected the great subject of railway legislation. [Mr. BARING: No, no!] He thought that the House ought to share this reproach with the Government. He only wished that hon. Members would read the able Report on this subject made by the Committee of the Board of Trade last year. The Board laid down certain principles, which they considered proper to be applied to cases of amalgamation brought before Parliament, admitting that there were cases in which it might be for the public advantage that they should be relaxed; and there was no doubt there were cases in which amalgamation, under proper conditions, would be for the advantage of the public, as well as of the railway companies. The recommendations of the Board of Trade, however, were not acceded to by the House; and he only asked the House to share the reproach of the present state of things with the Government. The House was actually jealous of the interference of the Government; the House overruled, in many cases, the decisions of the Board of Trade, and it would perceive in this a reason why Her Majesty's Government wished that the interference of the Executive should be called for by a decision of the House of Commons as necessary for the public interests,
 1427
 SIR R. PEEL  said, the noble Lord was labouring under a great mistake in supposing that the Government had interfered with respect to any Private Bill. When it became a question whether the Government, as a Government, should interfere with a Private Bill, although it had been recommended by a Committee, and had received the sanction of the Board of Trade, he should be sorry to see such interference. But when there was a question between the promoters of two Bills before Parliament, and the opinion of the Board of Trade itself was to be supported, he remembered coming down to support the decision of the Board of Trade.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  alluded to an early discussion which took place at the commencement of the Session.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, that they ought to recollect that amalgamation was a voluntary act, and that there was nothing
 1428
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said: I wish to ask a question of the right hon. Baronet of which I gave him notice, and it relates to a subject of very considerable importance to the commercial interests of this country—the state of our relations with the Republic of Buenos Ayres. We all know that for a considerable period British commerce has received great interruption in the River Plate, first by the war carried on between the Buenos Ayres Government and that of Monte Video, and lately in consequence of the measures taken by the British Government to put an end to that war. Transactions have taken place there of a very warlike description. The language of the Government, when asked upon this matter in Parliament, has been the language of peace; but the acts of our authorities there have certainly been acts of war. First of all, there has been established a maritime blockade; next there has been the landing of British troops upon the Argentine territory, and the storming of towns; then there has been the capture of Argentine vessels and the advertisement of them for sale as prizes taken in war. There has also been, I believe, an advertisement issued for the hire of shipping, to remove, at the public expense, from Buenos Ayres to the Cape of Good Hope, British subjects who had settled at Buenos Ayres relying on the faith of the existing treaties between the two countries. I apprehend that none of these transactions have arisen out of any demand made by the British Government for redress from Buenos Ayres for injuries done to British subjects or British property in violation of any treaty; and I also apprehend that our interference between Monte Video and Buenos Ayres is not the result of any guarantee we have given to Monte Video by treaty, nor the fulfilment of any obligation arising out of any treaty offensive and defensive concluded between this country and Monte Video. The only reason alleged in Parliament for this interference of the British Government, has been a desire to put an end to the war, which was thought
 1433
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he had not heard the observations of the noble Lord in such a manner as to be enabled to form a judgment of the merits of the case. He therefore thought it would be unfair that he or the House should be called upon now to decide upon the subject; but whatever might be the ultimate decision of the House, he wished to observe that the public was not only anxious but deeply interested in the speedy settlement of the question which the right hon. Gentleman had brought under the consideration of the House—namely, the Corn Bill. He, therefore, thought it would be unreasonable to proceed with this Motion, as he did not find that other hon. Gentlemen who had Motions on the Paper were disposed to press them; and he thought it would not be unreasonable to move that the Order of the Day be now read. The House had heard the statements of the suspense and inconvenience which prevailed in the manufacturing districts, where it appeared a great proportion of the labouring classes were only maintained in work at the present moment from the consideration that it would be ungenerous not to supply them with work while the question was under the consideration of Parliament. This being the case, it appeared to him that to enter upon considerations of this kind would be most unfair; and he should, therefore, move the previous Question.
 VISCOUNT POLLINGTON  said, that it was with great pain that he rose to express his opinion against the present measure of the Government. He had for years given
 5 6 7 8 "Although no pledge was asked or given at my election, I should be acting in contravention of an honourable understanding between myself and the electors on this particular subject, if I retained my seat and voted for the Ministerial measure."
 The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER  presumed that the cheers with which the remarks of his right hon. Friend had been received by those who sat around him were to be ascribed rather to the peroration of his speech, in which he had animadverted, with his accustomed severity, on the conduct of those with whom he was formerly connected, but whom he now opposed; for he could not believe that any of those hon. Gentlemen who had attended to the course of events in this country since the commencement of the year, or who had paid the most ordinary attention to what had been passing in that House, or to the reports which had been laid on the Table as to what was passing in Ireland, could have intended, by their cheers, to sanction or approve the statements which the right hon. Gentleman had made with respect to the existence of scarcity in the sister country. The right hon. Gentleman had commenced his speech by stating that he was now prepared to confirm, by detailed statements,
 60 "Fever, diarrhœa, and dyspepsia, have increased considerably, and are in many cases traceable to the use of unsound potatoes. It is very probable that fever will break out and spread, especially among the lower orders." 61 "Dyspepsia, dysentery, and diarrhœa, caused by unsound food; cottiers are without even tainted potatoes for food; many unemployed poor are in a starving condition; breaking out of disease, arising from scarcity of food." "Fever patients have increased nearly two-thirds, compared with the last year; many of the poor unemployed; potatoes daily getting worse." d., d., 62 d. d. d. d. d. d., d., d. d. d., d.; d., d.; d., d.; 63 64
 The EARL OF MARCH  would not have risen at all, did he not think it a paramount duty under existing circumstances to come forward and state his views on the measures which had been brought under their consideration. He thought a remark which had fallen from the right
 65 "That it would be a benefit to the entire community, as containing that principle which the House was pledged to maintain, a reasonable protection to the agricultural interests of the country, and to that large and decidedly preponderating proportion of the people which was essentially
 66 Hansard "I shall now take the returns of Mr. Meek, to which so much reference has been made. Now, with regard to Denmark, if you admit the principle, that with the averages we have nothing to do, but that the real question is, what is the port from which corn will come at the lowest price; and what is the rate of freight at that port, and the expense of importation from it, which are the real questions for consideration? What does Mr. Meek say as to Denmark? Mr. Meek says, that during the last twenty-five years the average price of wheat at Denmark has been 28 s. d. s.; s. d. s. s. d. s. d. s.; s. d. s.; s. d. s.; 67 s. d. s., s. s. * l. l. l. * 68
 MR. HAWES  did not hesitate to give his warmest support to the Ministerial project. He was sure that it would be highly advantageous to the country;, there was a very general impression to the same effect out of doors, as was testified by the fact that petitions were presented to the House from London, Liverpool, Birmingham, Manchester, the great towns and cities of England, praying that the question might now be settled, and that the measure proposed by Her Majesty's Ministers might be passed without any unnecessary delay. There never was a political movement which had received less of sympathy and countenance out of the House than that which Gentlemen opposite were endeavouring to get up in favour of protection principles. They protested with unbounded indignation against any alteration of the silk duties, and declared that it would be ruinous to the trade; but it was worthy of remark that but few of the silk manufacturers joined in this cry, or sanctioned the opposition. The same fact had occurred in the case of timber also; and yet these Gentlemen talked as though it was they alone who stood between the English manufacturers and absolute destruction. He would venture to say that in obstructing those measures hon. Gentlemen opposite had not sufficiently studied and appreciated either the temper or the information of the people, and that they would find out of doors nothing like the support or sympathy they expected. But he was glad to perceive that this debate had been contradistinguished favourably from the previous debate on the subject; and with one exception there had been an absence of that vituperation which characterized
 12 "But such measures would not be requisite were there no legislative interference whatever in matters of trade. If capital was left quite free from the interposition of laws giving encouragement to its investment in every species of manufacture and every branch of trade, there would be no necessity for any Parliamentary regulation. It is in order to counteract the perpetual operation of the system of bounties, monopolies, and protecting duties, in taking capital from agriculture, that any law in favour of the corn trade becomes desirable. If every kind of trade were perfectly free, agriculture would not require any protection; but as every kind of trade is supported by some sort of legislative aid, it is folly to refuse it to that trade which is the main support of all others. If all those who are now concerned in manufactures and commerce will consent to adopt the system of a perfectly free trade, those who are now advocates for restraints on the importation
 13 "This system is certainly liable to sudden alterations, of which the effect may be, at one time, to reduce prices, already low, lower than they would probably have been under a state of free trade; and at another, unnecessarily to enhance prices already high; to aggravate the evils of scarcity, and to render more severe the depression of prices from abundance. On the one hand, it deceives the grower with the false hopes of monopoly, and by its occasional interruption may lead to consequences which deprive him of the benefit of that monopoly when most wanted. On the other hand, it holds out to the country the prospect of an occasional free trade, but so regulated and desultory as to baffle the calculations and unsettle the transactions both of the grower and the dealer at home; to deprive the consumer of most of the benefits of such a trade; and to involve
 14 "Exclusion up to certain points, and perfect free trade beyond, had induced the agriculturist to regulate his outlay by the hope of monopoly profits, whilst, in fact, he obtained only the returns of free trade." "The Committee of 1821 expressed a hope 'that the great body of the occupiers of the soil, either from the savings of more prosperous times, or from the credit which punctuality commands in this country, possess resources which will enable them to surmount the difficulties under which they now labour.' Your Committee, with deep regret, are bound rather to express a fear that the difficulties alone remain unchanged, but that the savings are either gone or greatly diminished, and the credit failing, and the resources being generally exhausted; and this opinion is formed not on the evidence of rent-payers, but of many most respectable witnesses, as well owners of land as surveyors and land agents." 15 "When the noble Earl says that the low prices incident to the distress which agriculture suffers, benefit no man, I answer that, although I sincerely wish the distress did not exist, I cannot be blind to the fact that they do benefit a great majority of the people. I have been at some trouble, my Lords, to ascertain the real state of the case, and I can pledge myself to the accuracy of this statement. In this metropolis, in which your Lordships are now sitting, never were the lower orders of the people in a better condition than they are at this moment. So that when the noble Earl says that the low prices incident to the distress of the agriculturists have not been beneficial to anybody, he certainly labours under a great mistake, for that distress, however much to be lamented in itself, is accompanied by a considerable benefit to a great proportion of the people." 16 l., l., l. s. 
 
 Year. Highest average price of Wheat in the London Market. Lowest average price of Wheat in the London Market. Difference. 
 s. d. s. d. s. d. 
 1784 48 2 41 10 6 4 
 1785 37 5 34 6 2 10 
 1786 36 2 34 6 2 5 
 1787 44 10 36 1 8 9 
 1788 45 1 42 9 2 4 
 1789 54 11 47 0 7 11 17 s.; s. s. s.; s. s.; s. s.; s. s.; s. s.; s. s.; s. s.; s. d.; s. s. 18 s. d. s. d., d. d., 19 "An alarm not very dissimilar has been raised against the country banks, who have been accused of enabling the formers to hoard their corn, by making them advances of money; but the inhabitants of this metropolis are not aware of the total change in the situation of the country banks, in consequence of the war. Those which are established in seaports and great manufacturing towns may still be considered as having commercial deposits, with which they must, in preference, accommodate their commercial friends; but the general mass of banks through the country look to the farmers for deposits and support, as the only persons who have money to employ. It is very rare that a farmer wants to borrow; but the instances are not rare where he is able to accommodate even his landlord with a loan." s. s. s. 20 s., s., s., s., s., s. s., s. 21 22
 MR. SHAW  could assure the House that he was not unmindful of the indulgence and kind attention he had recently experienced from them in a former stage of the measure then under their consideration. He would therefore make his present trespass as short as possible, consistently with the facts he was anxious to lay before the House. He was the more anxious to do so, on account of the speech of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, which related to the alleged famine and consequent disease in Ireland, on which the right hon. Gentleman, following the example of the Government, had laid such stress. He had from the first approved of taking every precaution
 50 "We can come to no other conclusion than that half of the actual potato crop of Ireland is either destroyed, or remains in a state unfit for the food of man. We, moreover, feel it our duty to apprize you, that we fear this to be a low estimate." 51 d. s. 
 
 POTATOES, PER STONE. 
 Belfast Jan. 24.—6½ d. March 3.—5 d. 
 Randalstown 5 11.—6½ 
 Cork (City) 5½ 21.—5 
 Downpatrick 5 10.—4 to 4½ d. 
 Newry 4½ 3.—4 to 4 
 Enniskillen 4 10.—3½ to 4 
 Galway 4½ 4.—2½ to 3 
 Gort 3 14.—2½ 52 
 
 Kilkenny Jan. 24.—4½ d. March 11.—5 d. 
 Limerick 4½ 12.—3½ to 5 d. 
 Castlebar 3 4.—2 to 3 
 Drogheda 6 13.—5 to 6 
 Nenagh 3 10.—4½ 
 Waterford 4 12.—3½ to 4½ 
 Enniscorthy 5 8.—3¾ 
 Wexford 4½ 4.—4 to 5 General Advertiser, "Dublin, which was the highest, was 4 s. s. d.; s. d. s. d. s. d.; s. d.; s. d.; s.; s. d.; s.; s. s. d.; s. d.; s. 53 "Apprehends fever in districts; strongly recommends establishment of a fever hospital." "900 able-bodied men and an equal number of women, besides many small farmers, are seeking employment. Apprehends breaking out of disease. The people being unemployed, are unable to purchase food. Outbreak of fever frequent in summer months, and spreads rapidly for want of an hospital." "5,000 or 6,000 poor unemployed. Breaking out of disease apprehended in the spring and summer. Suggests the erection of a fever hospital in districts where destitution is heavily felt. Medical district of officer embraces a diameter of twelve miles from his residence." "I must say, however, in relation to this subject, that, in passing through the country, I have not been struck by any appearance of starvation or misery which may be said to be abroad. I have observed the potato fields and haggards of the farmers of the country as I have passed along, and I really must say that there is not more than the usual, if so much, appearance of misery or destitution throughout the country." 54 "It would in the present state of things be most important that all who can should remain as long as possible, with a view of ascertaining in the different localities the extent of real want, and endeavouring to relieve it and to guard against its increase." "Your statement of the other evening as to the potatoes, is confirmed by my experience in Longford, Sligo, and Roscommon. I have been an eyewitness in those counties; but precautions are no doubt necessary." "It is perfectly true what you have stated in your place in Parliament, that the amount of distress in Ireland has been greatly exaggerated. Last Saturday I bought, in the public market of Naas, several barrels of potatoes for seed of the best description and perfectly untainted, at 5½ d. d. "I myself am a farmer, to the extent of from 300 to 400 acres; and, as a landlord and farmer, can safely say Ireland has not, in my memory, experienced a better year than the past." "I am a friend to the principle of free trade; but I think a great question ought to be considered
 55 vox et prœterea nihil. "Since you left this neighbourhood," in the end of December, "the general opening of the pits show that the disease had progressed." "And what is more strange, the injury appears most where most care has been taken to avert the malady; wherever the plans recommended by the Commissioners were adopted, the destruction of the potato appears more complete. In some districts the potatoes have been much less injured—as the barony of Inniskilly, from which a great supply is at present sent to the Cork market; farmers from which district proposed to let me have as many thousand stone as I wished guaranteed safe from disease at 5 d. d. 56 "Ban, ban, Ca-Caliban, Get a new master—be a new man." 57 "Upon this subject I must maintain precisely the same language which I held previously to the dissolution; at any rate, you shall not have cause to charge me with having, before the dissolution, employed language which, now that I have obtained a majority, I am inclined to modify, and that whilst I have assisted in removing you from office on account of distinct measures which you have proposed, I contemplate confirming myself in power by proposing measures of the same nature. I tell you frankly I contemplate no such thing." 58 59
 MR. PLUMPTRE  said, connected as he was with a large and important agricultural county, which the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary had himself a year or two ago declared would be among those in which the repeal of the Corn Laws would soonest throw land out of cultivation. He wished to say a few words upon this measure, which he conceived to be equally perilous, rash, and unjust. The reasons which had been given for its sudden adoption seemed to him suspicious, insufficient, and unsatisfactory. And though the right hon. Baronet, who professed to have been so quickly converted, considered that their former speeches in favour of protection were disposed of by being simply abandoned, it was not quite so easy to get rid of the facts, the principles, and the arguments on which those appeals had been founded. Nor could he dispose so easily of the convictions he had formed as to the necessity of protection for all branches of British industry. He did not consider it as a landlords' question: though aware that it would seriously affect the smaller classes of landowners—in whose circumstances the projected change would work serious distress and embarrassment. He viewed it principally, however, as a labourers' question. He had been surprised to hear it so confidently asserted that there was no connection
 9 s. s. s. s. s. d., s. "Look over the whole world, and you will find that low prices of food lead to low rates of wages, and that where there is a low rate of wages there is a great degradation in the character of the working classes. Look at the Hindoos, or at the Sicilians, in their respective countries: food is cheap, but the rate of wages is also extremely low, and hence there are not in Asia or Europe more miserable and degraded races." 10 s., s. s. s., s. s., 11
 MR. RASHLEIGH  was not accustomed to trespass upon the indulgence of the House; but there were some occasions of such importance, that although a man might wish to consult his own convenience, it behoved him to come out boldly and state his opinions. He could not, after hearing the proposition of the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) sit still, or refrain from expressing the alarm with which he viewed the precedent about to be established with respect to the commercial policy of the country. He would like to ask the right hon. Baronet, whether he was prepared to concede to the unconstitutional demands made upon him by the Anti-Corn-Law Leaguers, for there were other persons of that persuasion, besides the hon. Gentlemen opposite. The measures lately proposed by the Government, and now sought to be made the law of the land, would, in his opinion, so far from causing an adjustment of the question, prove a bonus to further agitation. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department might smile; but he had no right to indulge in smiles upon so momentous a matter as the subject under discussion. Hon. Gentlemen opposite might smile; but they were the promoters of the agitation to which he had made allusion. But he confessed he was surprised to see the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, who ought to put down agitation wherever he found it, smiling at such a subject as the present. [ Laughter. 42 "I know, according to your strict rigid principles of political economy, abstractedly, if we were to forget the condition and circumstances of the country, and the interests which have grown up under the long endurance of protection—if we were to speak mathematically of these principles, no doubt they may be true. It may be true that a population from which protection is withdrawn, ought to apply itself to other employments; but is that strictly true? If we are not mere philosophers, and men of science, having to deal with abstract or indefinite quantities, but have to consult the convenience, the comfort, the substance, of great masses of human beings, are we to disregard those convictions which must be presented for the consideration of the Legislature and of statesmen. I speak not merely of tenants under leases, but of tenants-at-will, and of the labourers. No doubt, as far as the law is concerned, there are free opportunities for the application of capital to other branches of industry; no doubt it is true, speaking literally and technically, that the labourers in Kerry and Galway may go and seek for subsistence in Manchester and Coventry. That is all true enough in theory, but false in practice. How can you disturb a man who is far advanced in life, to the age, perhaps, of nearly half a century, whose father and grandfather before him were occupied in agriculture, and who knows nothing else himself? How is he to try this project of suddenly removing himself from his old occupations and locality, to new ones? Why, you would destroy his confidence in the application of his capital to agriculture as before, and you leave him without other modes of employing it. You may rejoice and indulge in those theories of modern philosophy and political economy; but when you have endangered and destroyed the peace and happiness of a nation, you will have but a sorry return for your pains. Looking then at the long endurance of the protection, at the amount of capital involved in agriculture, and the position of the population dependent upon agriculture, and at the interests, not merely of the landlords and tenants, but the comprehensive interests of all classes of the community, I must give my solemn and unqualified opposition to the proposal for the immediate removal of the present protection to agriculture. But I will not shrink from the other question. Am I prepared then, as I am opposed to the immediate removal of protection, to bring under the immediate consideration of the House any modified proposition for altering the amount of protection determined upon two years ago, and carried into effect with the general goodwill and concurrence of the agricultural interest? I say at once, I am not holding language different from that which my right hon. Friend and myself held at an early period of the Session. We then said, that we never had it in contemplation, and now we say that we have it not in contemplation, to make any alteration whatever in the Corn Laws." 43 44
 MR. F. T. BARING  trusted that the hon. Member who had just sat down, would not consider him wanting in respect if he followed the course of which the hon. Member seemed to approve on a former occasion, and treated his observations with that constitutional silence which the hon. Member considered so conclusive an argument. He should be very much disinclined to break silence at all on this subject; but as it seemed to be the arrangement that they were to debate the question until a given time, and he was, therefore, not prolonging the debate, he felt an anxiety that it should not pass by without expressing his cordial approbation of the measures introduced by Her Majesty's Government. He might perhaps wish, with his noble Friend, that some modifications might be made; but, looking at the measure as a whole, and seeing in it great good, and much more the seeds of future good, he should give it his warmest and most cordial support. As for going
 45 46 47 48 49
 SIR J. HANMER  agreed with the right hon. Member for the county of Perth, who spoke last night, that it was desirable for some and justifiable for others who supported this measure, and were wholly dependent upon the land, to rise and state their reasons; lest it should be thought simply an emanation of that "enormous money confederacy" of which his hon. Friend the Member for Cambridgeshire had spoken rather bitterly, in a speech the ability of which he readily admitted, but which seemed to him to refer to matters capable of affording a very different illustration of the case. That hon. Gentleman invoked justice to aid him in support of what he believed to be protection, which yet he did not regard as equal in endurance to justice; for he contemplated the possibility of this corn law being repealed—that was rendered unnecessary by time. And therefore his hon. Friend opened all the question of whether this was not the time at which it should be repealed by Parliament, looking at the condition of agriculture, which it might be was able now, in its own interests best understood, to dispense with the existing system of what was called protection. It had dispensed with many previous systems; and when his hon. Friend said there was a tract in Cambridgeshire which, at a vast expense, with great industry and labour, had been reclaimed from a state of waste, on the faith and security of protection, within these sixty years, one was induced to ask which protection it was on which reliance was so placed? Surely it must be something sound and practical by which the marshes of Cambridgeshire were reclaimed.
 30 31 d. s. 32 d. d. 33 s. Arabian Nights, "No laws can set prices in trade"—[he repaid his hon. Friend (Mr. E. T. Yorke) for Sir Simon D'Ewes with Sir Dudley North]—"no laws can set prices in trade, the rates of which must and will make themselves; but when such laws happen to lay hold, it is so much impediment, and only prejudicial." 34 35
 SIR J. TROLLOPE  wished to address to the House a few observations, in reply to the hon. Member who had just sat down. The hon. Member said the population of the country were unanimous in favour of this measure. Now, he represented a very large constituency, one of the largest purely agricultural constituencies, and he found in his district that the unanimity was all the other way. He had attended large meetings in his county, where only one band was held up in favour of the Minister's measures. There were at these meetings numbers of persons who were connected with trade and with the learned professions; and these persons were the foremost to speak in favour of agricultural protection. He might further add that in the part of Lincolnshire which he represented, very free comments were made upon the conduct of those Members for the boroughs who had taken a different course—he particularly referred to the right hon. Member for Stamford. He was closely connected with that borough—the constituents were his near neighbours—and he knew that they had witnessed the conduct of their right hon. Representative with great dislike and surprise. He believed they had taken a still farther step—they had produced before him the opinions which he held on former occasions; and they had called upon him to take that step which alone could be taken in consistency with what was due to his character. But still his right hon. Friend rose in the House night after night, and with great ability combated his own opinions, and overturned all the arguments he had formerly used. He had heard with some astonishment, at the beginning of the Session, that they were called upon by Her Majesty's Ministers to decide upon these measures according to the experience of the last three years. As far as he had been able to consult that experience, it appeared to him eminently to confirm the
 23 Gazette s. d. s. 24 25 s. s. d. d. s. 26 27 28 s. s. 29
 SIR ROBERT INGLIS  moved that the debate be adjourned.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he had no wish to imitate the spirit which animated the debate of yesterday, and felt glad that hon. Members had that night adopted a different tone. He would not follow the example of attacking the right hon. Baronet and his Colleagues. He would leave them to be attacked as they might by their friends, and defended as they best might by themselves. For the purpose, however, of making intelligible the question before the House, and the position in which it stood, he would refer to what had happened in November. [The noble Lord narrated at some length the resignation of Sir R. Peel, after he had in vain endeavoured to persuade his Colleagues to join him in a gradual repeal of the Corn Laws; Lord John Russell's attempt to form a Ministry; and Sir R. Peel's, resumption of office.] He would consider the Bill before the House, first, as a separate measure; second, as a part of a comprehensive adjustment. He regretted that Government had combined the repeal of the Corn Laws with the continuation of the sliding-scale for three years. To that scale he had ever been opposed. The first speech he had made in the House, had been in opposition to the principle of that scale. Against the evils of that scale, his noble Friend the Member for London (Lord J. Russell) had in July, 1842, prophetically warned the House, and predicted the evils which would infallibly result from its introduction. The noble Lord warned the House, in 1842, against the adoption of the Government measure then proposed by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government (Sir R. Peel), and had on that occasion observed, that whatever way the averages were taken, that still there would be found a defect, because they did not take into consideration the quality of the corn. For instance, in 1841, a considerable quantity of the Corn crop had been damaged; and in consequence of this a great diminution had taken place in the averages which regulate the duty. But had the public derived the advantage consequent upon this apparent reduction of price? No, the consumer obtained no benefit whatever, for he
 36 "In January, 1841, the average price was 61 s. d.; s. d.; s. s., s. 37 38 l. l. 39 l., l., 40 41
 VISCOUNT INGESTRE  said, he had to bring under the consderation of the House the petition of Thomas Wood, the proprietor of the  Wolverhampton Chronicle. 3 l., s. s. l., 4
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  was delighted with what had fallen from the hon. Member (Mr. Patten), who was Chairman of the Classification Bill; and he would recommend his hon. Friend to follow his example. He was opposed to postponement. His hon. Friend wished to obtain time to bring down his forces, and oppose the further progress of the Bill.
 MR. LOCKHART  moved as an Amendment to substitute the words that "the House will resolve itself into the said Committee that day six months." If the Bill passed, he considered that it would not at all diminish the number of toll-houses selling spirits. It was beginning at the wrong end; it would be far better to revise the system of licenses.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was under the impression that the moment that they had resolved to appoint the Committee of Amalgamation, the House had substantially laid down the rule, that until the decision of that Committee was known, all further proceedings in the case of Amalgamation Bills were to be suspended. He was for adhering to this course, and thought that the present Bill, and all others of a similar character, should be permitted to fall under the same rule. Much inconvenience would assuredly result if, on the strength of a precedent which had been set last night, all Railway Bills of this description were to receive a second reading, while the question which involved the course to be pursued in reference to amalgamation generally was still pending.
 MR. FORBES MACKENZIE  was opposed to the Bill, but he thought the whole subject of licenses ought to be into; and if no other hon. Member submitted a Motion to the House for inquiry, he would himself.
 MR. F. MAULE  said, he should withdraw the Bill. He had done what he could to remove the stigma that attached to making the turnpikes pothouses. After this, if any accidents occurred in consequence of drunkenness at these places, the Government would be responsible for them.
 MR. F. MAULE  then withdrew his original Motion, and moved—
 "That the Second Reading of this Bill be postponed until the Report of the Committee on Railway Amalgamations should have been laid before the House; and that a similar rule shall apply to all other Bills for the Amalgamation of Railways."
 MR. F. MAULE  said, the House had already divided upon the principle of the Bill, and he had hoped that there would not have been a second discussion and a second division upon its principle. Except upon public grounds, he should not have interfered in the matter; but there were crying evils arising from the sale of spirits at toll-houses. It was well known to almost every hon. Member present that the practice of selling spirituous liquors at toll-bars was a privilege which at various times had been grievously abused. Some most frightful crimes had been committed in houses of that description—witness the Gilmerton case. Still he thought that a prohibition respecting the sale of refreshments at toll-bars ought not to be rendered universal. Such a privilege, however, ought to be the exception, and not the rule. He should not object to the introduction of a clause giving the magistrates
 73
 MR. F. MAULE  moved that the House do resolve itself into a Committee on the Turnpike Roads (Scotland) Bill.
 MR. FOX MAULE  had no objection to withdraw his Motion for the six weeks' suspension, and substitute any other time by which it was thought the Committee would have made their Report.
 MR. F. MAULE  hoped that his noble Friend would not press the second reading of that Bill at present. He was not opposed to it, but merely wished it to be delayed until the Report of the Committee that had been appointed to inquire into all Amalgamation Lines of Railway should be received.
 MR. F. MAULE  said, his opposition to that Bill was purely upon public grounds, and he believed he might with safety state, that it would be opposed to the interests of his own constituents of the city of Perth. He was opposed to it because he did not wish to see the entire communication between the north and south of Scotland bcome a great monopoly by being thrown into the hands of one particular body, which the amalgamation of these two lines of railway was calculated to effect. When he had given his notice of Motion that the Bill should be read that day six months, he was not aware that his hon. Friend the Member for North Lancashire (Mr. W. Patten) had given notice of the Motion for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the subject of proposed Amalgamation Bills; and as that was the case, he did not intend to proceed with the Motion for which he had given notice, but merely intended to move in place of it that the Bill should be read that day six weeks, which would allow sufficient time for the Report of the Amalgamation Committee to be received. He would therefore move as an Amendment, that the Bill should be read that day six weeks.
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  was for placing this Bill in exactly the same position with other Amalgamation Bills, which had been permitted to receive a second reading, and he would accordingly vote against the postponement.
 MR. S. WORTLEY  suggested that the whole subject had better be referred to a Committee upstairs. When he found an overwhelming majority of Scotch Representatives against the Bill, he thought himself justified in assisting to defeat it, but he was favourable to the object mainly proposed to be attained.
 LORD DALMENY  begged to remind his hon. Friend who had intimated that he was not opposed to the second reading of the Bill, that he had given a notice of a
 69
 LORD DALMENY  moved the Second Reading of the Edinburgh and Glasgow, and Scottish Central Railways Junction Bill.
 MR. HOME DRUMMOND  said, he was glad to hear from the right hon. Gentleman that the Bill was to be so far improved that a modification was to be made of the prohibition of licenses at toll-bars; but still he could not withdraw his opposition. He did not oppose it on the ground of no interference with the system of licensing in Scotland being necessary. On the contrary, he considered the subject full of abuse, and would give his cordial support to the Motion which his hon. Friend the Member for Peebles had expressed his intention to make. This Bill he considered altogether trifling with the subject as to the moral effects to which the right hon. Gentleman attached so much importance, and practically, if it should pass, it would be found useless and unworkable.
 MR. HOME DRUMMOND  said, that he should certainly support the second reading of this Bill, as he could see no other definite line to draw between the Amalgamation Bills that were to be advanced, and those that were to be stopped, than the passing of the Motion of the hon. Member for North Lancashire, which had this object specially in view. If the House were to go back to the first expression of the intention to interfere with Amalgamation Bills, they could not apply that rule to the present Bill without manifest injustice; for they had already allowed other Bills to be read a second time since that intention was announced. They could not treat this Bill differently without fixing on it a stigma which would affect it most injuriously in the estimation of the public.
 MR. LOCH  thought, that as other Amalgamation Bills had been permitted to go through the preliminary stages, and had received a second reading, it would look like an unjust and partial proceeding if the Bill before the House were not to be treated in the same manner.
 MR. W. PATTEN  was of opinion that the Committee had nothing whatever to do with the second reading of that or any other Bill; and he would recommend with regard to the second reading of that Bill, that the discussion should take place upon its merits without waiting for the Report of the Committee, whose duty it was to inquire into a different matter, which the second reading could not possibly interfere with.
 MR. P. M. STEWART  was averse to the second reading, for he was of opinion that the wisest course that the House could adopt was to order all Bills of this description, without any exception whatever, to remain in  statu quo
 MR. P. M. STEWART  was of opinion that refreshments should not be sold at toll-bars unless when they were situate at a great distance from public houses.
 MR. FORBES  thought it was unnecessary to define the duties of the magistrates in reference to this matter.
 MR. F. BARING  was favourable to the
 70
 SIR G. CLERK  said, that the House having appointed a Committee to inquire into all the proposed amalgamations, he thought it would be very inconsistent in them if they did not adopt the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for North Lancashire, for the suspension of all Amalgamation Bills. He would suggest that the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Perth for the postponement of the second reading of the Bill then before the House till that day six weeks should be withdrawn, and that the right hon. Gentleman would allow that Bill to take the same course as the others; and the House should not allow the second reading of that or any other Amalgamation Bill, but that they should all be suspended in their present stages, with the view that no prejudice should be taken against any of them in particular.
 SIR J. M'TAGGART  should vote against going into Committee, unless exceptions were made in certain cases.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  observed that his experience as a Member of the Committee to whom had been referred a group of Caledonian lines enabled him to state that in the great majority of cases the idea of competition between railway companies was altogether illusory. Some general rules ought unquestionably to be laid down applicable to different cases of amalgamation, otherwise great confusion and inconvenience would result in consequence of the
 71
 MR. O'CONNELL  said, that no one could regret more than he did that any delay should be given to those important measures. He was exceedingly unwilling to interfere with the progress of the Corn Laws; but to the other (the Coercion) Bill, he and the hon. Members near him were bound to give every opposition in their power.
 MR. TUFFNELL : But the noble Lord says, that such was admitted in the letters which passed between him and the hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Treasury.
 MR. O. GORE  did not understand these private agreements. He knew that there was a considerable number of Gentlemen anxious to express their opinion on the subject of the Corn Laws. For himself he did not belong to one party or another: he was not bound by any agreement; and if he had not an opportunity of expressing his opinions, he would move the adjournment of the debate to-morrow, let the agreement be of what nature it might. He did not think these agreements were consistent with the nature of the Constitution, and, therefore, they ought to be thrown overboard entirely. He was most unfortunate in relation to this subject, and he regretted it extremely; there was not a man in the House that entered into the subject of these measures with deeper or more heartfelt regret than he did. He had followed the right hon. Baronet through all his measures for a great length of time;
 141
 LORD G. BENTINCK : My hon. Friend the Secretary for the Treasury has got my letter, and can read it for the House.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said: Sir, the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just sat down commenced his observations to the House by stating that the universal common sense of mankind was agreed in the principles of free trade. Why, Sir, I think when the hon. and learned Gentleman looks to the opinions of the people of the United States of America—when he looks to the opinions of the monarch and people of Prussia — when he looks to the opinions of the people of France and her Government—when he looks to the united opinions of the Zollverein of Germany—and when he looks to the opinions of Russia—he must have paused before he came to the conclusion that the united common sense of all mankind was in favour of free trade. The three tailors of Tooley-street once mistook their opinions for the opinions of the united people of England; and so it is, I think, with the hon. and learned Gentleman. He mistakes the opinions of a party which, until the month of November last, was but a small minority in this House, for the universal common sense of all mankind. Sir, the hon. and learned Gentleman has made several observation with regard to the course that those around me have taken, and the opinions we have formed in respect of the alleged potato famine in Ireland. I believe, Sir, and every day convinces me more and more, that the alleged potato famine in Ireland has been a gross delusion upon the country. True it is, that we, having had the Ministers of the Crown come down to this House with a Speech from the Throne, stating that a great calamity was hanging over Ireland, and that there had been a great failure—an immense and general failure—in the potato crop; that this House was disposed, in the first instance, to listen to a statement coming from such high authority. Since that time, however, we have had better opportunities of informing ourselves on the subject, for we have had Returns laid on the Table of this House from no less than 414 market towns in Ireland, and the result of those Returns was, that the average price of potatoes per stone throughout the whole of Ireland was a fraction under fourpence. I
 128 d. 129 s., s. s., s. 
 
 Places. Lowest. Highest. Average Price. Add Freight and Charges. 
 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. 
 Dantzic 21 10 34 10 28 4 5 6 34 10 
 1 0 
 Rotterdam 29 7 33 4 31 6 5 1 37 6 
 1 0 
 Hamburgh 21 1 36 8 29 10½ 5 0 34 10½ 
 1 0 
 Amsterdam 20 6 35 7 28 1 5 0 34 1 
 1 0 
 Memel 18 1 26 1 22 1 5 6 28 6 
 1 0 
 Denmark 0 0 0 0 25 0 6 6 31 6 
 Antwerp 18 5 33 9 25 3 5 0 31 3 
 1 0 
 Odessa 16 2 21 1 18 7½ 11 0 30 7½ 
 1 0 
 Riga free on board, Polish wheat, 62lbs. per bushel. 25 7 6 6 32 1 
  Riga free on board, Polish wheat, 62lbs. per bushel. 27 8 6 6 34 2 
 Average price in England, per  London Gazette 46 2 32 11¼ 130 s. s., s. d. s. d. s. s. s. d., 
 
 Places. Lowest. Highest. Average Price. Freight and Charges. 
 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. 
 Dantzic 21 0 24 11 22 6 5 6 29 0 
 1 0 
 Rotterdam 26 9 31 6 29 1½ 5 0 34 0½ 
 1 0 
 Hamburgh 20 9 22 3 21 6 5 0 27 6 
 1 0 
 Amsterdam 21 10 26 0 23 10 5 0 29 10 
 1 0 
 Memel 19 4 26 0 22 8 5 6 29 2 
 1 0 
 Antwerp 18 5 21 6 19 9 5 0 25 9 
 1 0 
 Odessa 16 2 23 2 19 5 11 0 32 5 
 1 0 
 Denmark 0 0 0 0 19 0 6 6 25 6 
 Riga, free on board, Polish wheat, 62lbs. per bushel 25 2 6 6 31 8 
  Riga, free on board, Polish wheat, 62lbs. per bushel  27 2 6 6 33 8 
 Average price in England, per  London Gazette. 39 4 29 10¼ s. d., s. d., s. 131 s. d., s. d.; s. d. s. d. 132 
 
 Places. Years. Lowest price. Years. Highest price. Fluctuations per cent. 
 s. d. s. d. 
 Dantziz 1835 20 1 1829 60 1 202 
 1836 21 10 1838 61 2 
 New York 1839 37 0 1838 66 0 77 
 Hamburgh 1835 20 9 1838 58 6 192 
 Amsterdam 1835 20 6 1838 63 0 204 
 Antwerp 1833 15 0 1831 55 6 269 
 Bordeaux 1834 32 3 1832 59 3 81 
 
 Places. Years. Lowest price. Years. Highest price. Fluctuations per cent. 
 s. d. s. d. 
 Memel 1836 18 1 … 1831 49 3 166 
 Odessa 1830 16 0 … 1830 33 0 106 
 Rotterdam 1833 26 5 … 1831 60 9 128 
 Denmark 1834 18 0 … 1831 39 0 116 
 Sydney 1838 56 0 … 1839 170 0 201 
 England prior to 1842 36 0 … 1838 78 4 117 
 1836 
 —since 1812, Dec. 1844 45 1 Dec. 1845 60 1 32½ 
 
 England varied 1836 68 per cent. 
 Hamburg 1838 114 per cent. 
 Antwerp 1831 125 per cent. 
 Memel 1829 106 per cent. 
 Memel 1838 44 per cent. 
 Dantzie 1838 154 per cent. 
 Amsterdam 1838 131 per cent. 
 Bordeaux 59 per cent. 
 Odessa 1830 106 per cent. 
 Rotterdam 1838 44 per cent. 133 s.; s. "Rostock, April 17, 1845. "Cargo of 1,404 quarters of wheat, per Johannes, Captain Neiman:— 
 
 per Quarter. 
 s. d. 
 Invoice, price free on board 26 6 
 Mats for Dunnage 0 1½ 
 Freight to London 3 6 
 Meetage 0 6 
 Storeage, labourage, and lighterage 1 6 
 Duty 16 0 
 49 1½ 
 Mecklenburg wheat, free 61 s. s. 62 6 
 Say 62 s. d. 
 Profit 13 4½ 134 s. 135 136
 LORD G. BENTINCK : When will the Bill be proceeded with?
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said, that he distinctly understood from his hon. Friend the Secretary to the Treasury, that the Corn Law Bill would not be read a third time before Easter. I declare (said the noble Lord, with marked emphasis), I so understood my hon. Friend. My hon. Friend came to me, and asked what the intention of my Friends was as to opposing the Corn Bill? I replied that I was not sure whether they would take a division on the third reading, or on the question that the Bill do pass, and that it was also their intention to take a debate and a division on the second reading. It was also understood that the Customs Bill was not to be proceeded with till after the Corn Bill; but after what has been now stated, I am satisfied that the Customs Bill has been read a second time out of mistake.
 LORD G. BENTINCK : Sir, as this matter has proceeded so far, I must, in justice to myself, say that this conversation or arrangement was not of my seeking. I was in the Vote Office on Friday, when the hon. Gentleman called me aside. He distinctly told me that he had come from Sir R. Peel, whose authority he had to enter into an arrangement with me. He suggested the arrangement, that if we supported the Irish Coercion Bill, which it was the wish of Sir R. Peel to have read a first time before Easter, the third reading of the Corn Importation Bill would be postponed until after Easter. This was agreed to; and it was further arranged that the questions of the noble Lord the Member for the city of London should be allowed to pass,  sub silentio, 138
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said, there was no bargain of any sort or kind proposed either by the right hon. Baronet or by him. But he stated what he believed to be the views of the party with whom he served, and they were these—that if Her Majesty's Ministers, in their conduct in forcing this measure through the House, gave a practical proof of their belief that there was imminent danger to life and property in Ireland, which they thought might be remedied by the passing of this measure, then the party with whom he served, as far as he understood their views—and his impression had since been confirmed by a considerable number of them—that party would support Her Majesty's Ministers in carrying the Coercion Bill through the House, as a Bill which the right hon. Baronet, in his place in Parliament stated to be a Bill for putting down murder and preventing assassination. But that if Her Majesty's Ministers did not in their hearts believe that there was any urgent necessity for passing this measure, which was undoubtedly an unconstitutional one, which he might describe as a second Curfew Act, if they showed this by their conduct in postponing this to other measures, some of which were not to come into operation for three years, then the case assumed a different complexion, and he could not say that the party with whom he acted would in such a case support Her Majesty's Ministers to carry a measure which it could not be disputed was in itself a most unconstitutional measure.
 LORD RENDLESHAM  said, opposed as he was to this measure, he was still more opposed to the way in which the right hon. Baronet had forced on the measure without making an appeal to the country. Such a radical change as this could only be sanctioned by a dissolution of the House; and, after the admission of the noble Lord the Member for London, the other night, that if he had accepted office, though he should have obtained the support of the right hon. Baronet, he still could not have carried this measure, constituted as the House was—after that admission, he thought the country had a right to say that, notwithstanding the majority of 97, this measure would be passed contrary to the opinion of the constituencies, that the question was decided, not upon its merits or its demerits, but because some 100 men thought that nobody could govern this country except the right hon. Baronet, and because some other 101 men changed their minds along with the noble Lord the Member for London, who saw no other chance of regaining power except by professing to advocate a
 99 s. s. s. d. s. s. 100
 MR. M'CARTHY  certainly understood the noble Lord to say, that a communication had been made to him from the Government, that if he and his party would support the Irish Coercion Bill, the third reading of the Corn Bill should be postponed till after Easter.
 MR. FULLER  had received a short letter which he would read to the House, from a person living at Anglesey:—
 "With regard to corn the matter is very serious, and the dismay very general, without any one being able to see any cause whatever for such a sweeping change. Trusting to a Protection Minister, a vast number of our best farmers have sunk all their capital in draining, but now there is a complete check to it. For twenty men you saw draining this time last year, you will not now see two. It must be recollected, that in our country all draining and other improvements are done by the tenant; so you may imagine what a stop has been put to the progress of improvement. As to famine, there never was such humbug! No living man ever saw so much corn in Anglesey at this season as there is now; and two vessels laden with potatoes arrived at Carnarvon this week from Ireland. Pray tell Sir James Graham this."
 MR. DISRAELI  had wished that the discussion on this question should cease. A discussion regarding a correspondence which, in the first instance at least, was intended to be private, they must all regret should have been brought up; but after the concluding observations of the First Minister, and after what had just been said by the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department, he did not see how they could allow this matter to rest. What had taken place between the right hon. Gentleman and the Home Secretary could not satisfy the House, nor was it of any importance as regarded this question, with regard to the point that had been raised of bargaining for support on the Irish Coercion Bill. He was certain that the expressions of his noble Friend must have been misinterpreted, for there could have
 144
 MR. DISRAELI : I think it is very important that the House should know whether the third reading of the Corn Bill will take place before Easter.
 MR. C. BULLER  was exceedingly obliged to the hon. Member for Evesham for the personal compliments which he had paid him; but the hon. Gentleman did him injustice when he occused him (Mr. C. Buller) of having laughed at Gentlemen opposite when they quoted the "wisdom of our ancestors." What he complained of was, not of their always quoting that wisdom, so much as of their never following it. Our ancestors were doubtless wise men; but what he marvelled at—what he laughed at—was at their descendants and admirers so often keeping to every foolish saying or doing which their fathers had lapsed into, while they neglected the landmarks they had left of extended knowledge and true wisdom. For, whenever the "wisdom of our ancestors" was mentioned—their most sagacious sayings, their most solemn declarations—up got the hon. Member for Evesham to repeat the quotations, and apply them as supporting the policy of his party; while hon. Gentlemen behind cheered him on, without for one moment minding whether the citations told for or against themselves and their cause, so long as they were made by somebody on their side of the House. If he wished to quote the "wisdom of our ancestors" against restrictive laws, he should quote precisely those two sentences which at different times had been cited by the hon. Member for Evesham from the writings of Burke, He should warn the House against the folly of tampering with the subsistence of the people. He should tell the House, when they were proposing a law by which to insure a supply of food and of employment for the people, he should remind them, from Burke, that a people maintained a Government, but that no Government could maintain a people. One great feature, however, of the wisdom of our ancestors, compared with that of their descendants, was the comparative brevity of their debates. He did not believe that, in the Parliamentary history of this or any other country could be found such a phenomenon
 119 120 121 122 l. 123 124 125 126 127
 MR. FELLOWES  wished to prove to the people of this country, there still existed a large proportion of that once unanimous and united Conservative body, governed by political principle, and ready to watch with care and assiduity over the interests of those whose prosperity, and, indeed, he might say, existence, was mainly dependent upon that law which gave protection to native industry. When he last received the votes of the constituency he had the honour to represent, he was returned on the underetanding that he was faithful to the system of protection. He held the opinion then, that on protection to native industry depended the prosperity of this nation. His opinions were still unchanged, nor should he ever change them. Had his opinions altered, he should have thought it his duty to have resigned his charge into the hands of those who entrusted him with their votes. To have retained his position with a change of opinion, would have been highly dishonourable, and he should have deserved much reprehension. He had observed that the hon. Member for Hull had, a few days since, made allusion to a speech delivered by another hon. Member, upon the auspices under which that gigantic work the Bedford Level had been constructed.
 101 s. s. s. s. s. 102 s. s. s.; s. s. s., s. 103 104
 MR. BANKES  observed, that the course he would take on the present occasion would very much depend on the course which Her Majesty's Ministers had resolved to pursue with respect to the period at which this question was to be discussed. He should be glad if the Government would fix a day for the discussion. It had been stated by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, that the Bill having reference to this question stood for second reading on Monday next; but in the present state of public business, it was altogether out of the question to suppose, that it could indeed come on for discussion then. He begged leave to ask the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government to fix the day definitely on which the discussion should take place.
 MR. BANKES  rose to move for a Select Committee, to inquire into the Laws relating to the Settlement and Removal of the Poor. It was from a desire that the two measures—the Corn Bill, and what would really be a Settlement Bill—should accompany each other to the other House of Parliament, that he now rose to make the present Motion. Other measures had been promised in the original statement of the right hon. Baronet—measures which should accompany the Corn Law—but they were, in his opinion, of such little importance, that with regard to them he did not think it necessary to adopt the same course which he now felt it his duty to adopt with regard to the law of settlement. The right hon. Baronet had pointed out also the evils of the present law of settlement in his original statement. The right hon.
 78 79 80 81 82
 MR. FINCH  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Portsmouth (Mr. Baring) had the other night displayed an extraordinary degree of curiosity, and had proposed a long series of questions as to the principles, and policy, and probable measures of the protectionist party in the event of their becoming possessed of power. Now, it was hardly fair to put such questions to a party so long as they remained in opposition. But if the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government would give a correct account of the course he intended to pursue during the current Session, very likely the protectionist party would be prepared to describe their intentions. As to the principles of the party, they were the good old English principles
 90 91 92 s. 93 94 "Shallow drinks intoxicate the brain— But drinking deep will sober us again." Westminster Review, 95 96 s. s. s. s. s., s. s. s., s. s. s. bonâ fide 97 98
 MR. HUDSON : I hope, Sir, I may here be allowed to state my opinion. I see no reason why I should not. I consider myself quite as capable as the hon. Gentleman opposite of giving an opinion on a point of honour or honesty, which I conceive this to be, having had some experience in the world. It appears to me Sir, that a Gentleman connected with the Government had a communication with my noble Friend, wishing to know from him in what mode he intended to proceed. I think it appears, from what has transpired, that an arrangement took place, and that my noble Friend was warranted in considering that arrangement as concluded. I do not see how the hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Treasury could guard the
 140
 MR. COLQUHOUN  hoped, after what had been said by the right hon. Baronet, that his hon. Friend the Member for Dorset would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. YOUNG  said, the noble Lord would bear him out in saying, that he had put no question, direct or indirect, to the noble Lord in regard to the Irish Bill. Their
 142
 MR. YOUNG : At the end of the letter it was stated that there was no engagement.
 MR. YOUNG : I have not got the letter in my pocket.
 MR. YOUNG : I must again say, that I expressly guarded myself from making any engagement on the part of the Government. I freely admit that I addressed the noble Lord in the first instance; but I think by what took place since then, that the noble Lord might easily understand that it was no agreement at all. I mentioned the subject of the questions which were to be put by the noble Lord the Member for the city of London, and the noble Lord's statement on that head is correct; but I expressly guarded myself against any agreement on the part of the Government either on that point or on the Irish measure. I admit that I said it was impossible the Corn Bill could be read a third time before Easter, and mentioned at the same time the Poor Law Bill and others which were in progress. There was no concluded arrangement on the part of the Government, though I do not say but the noble Lord might have so understood it.
 MR. YOUNG  said, that at the request of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, he had asked the noble Lord what course he and his Friends meant to pursue; and the noble Lord had stated it in the terms he had now used. He returned to the right hon. Gentleman with the message; but he had not said a word about any stipulation, and he had made no stipulation of any sort. The noble Lord the next morning stated to his friends that a message had been sent to him by the right
 137
 MR. P. BORTHWICK : Knowing the congregated intelligence arrayed on the other side of the House, he was glad to perceive the hon. Member for Lambeth in his place, who, he thought, was almost the only Member who had stood firmly to his guns. ["No, no!"] He had no suspicion that the hon. Member for Lambeth had run from his guns. He had held the opinion, that the hon. Gentleman was one to whom might be applied the words of the poet—
 "Among the faithless, faithful only he." 105 "But the period to which he more particularly referred was from 1787 to 1792. The price of corn during these years was 42 s. d., s., s., s., s., s.; s., s., s., s., s.; s., s. d. 
 
 Years. Bounties paid upon corn exported. Duties paid upon corn imported. 
 £ s. d. £ s. d. 
 1787 55,882 17 5 5,061 12 2 
 1788 44,206 1 11 5,344 3 4 
 1789 76,551 16 1 4,814 3 7 
 1790 10,173 15 2 10,856 17 3 
 1791 7,657 0 0 27,511 0 0 
 1792 76,802 0 0 39,543 0 0 106 "It was found necessary to hold out greater encouragement for the importation of corn and other articles of provision, than merely exempting them from duty, as by the Act passed in the beginning of this Session. Therefore, the following bounties were granted on wheat, wheat flour, Indian corn, Indian meal, and rye, imported either in British vessels or in vessels belonging to any friendly State, viz.:— 
 
 For every quarter of wheat weighing 440 lbs. avoirdupois £1 0 0 
 For every quarter of wheat weighing 424 lbs. avoirdupois 0 16 0 
 For every cwt. of wheat flour 0 6 0 That is, when imported from any part of Europe south of Cape Finisterre, the Mediteranean, Africa, the British Colonies in America, the United States, till 400,000 quarters should be imported from Europe or Africa, and 500,000 quarters from America. 
 
 For every quarter of wheat weighing 440 lbs £0 15 0 
 For every quarter of wheat weighing 424 lbs 0 12 0 
 For every cwt. of flour 0 4 6 
 from any part of Europe north of Cape Finisterre, not being His Majesty's dominions, till the quantity should be 500,000 quarters; and— 
 For every quarter of wheat weighing 440 lbs £0 10 0 
 For every quarter of wheat weighing 424 lbs 0 8 0 
 For every cwt. of flour 0 3 0 
 imported after the above quantities should be completed. Then— 
 For every quarter of Indian corn £0 5 0 
 For every cwt. of Indian meal 0 1 6 
 until the quantity amounted to 500,000 quarters. 
 For every quarter of Indian corn £0 3 0 
 For very cwt. of Indian meal 0 1 0 
 when the above quantities were completed. For every quarter of rye, 10 d., d." s. d. s. 107 s. d.; s. d.; s. d.; s. d. 108 "The price of wheat in England at an average of the ten years ending with 1820, was no less than 83 s. d. s. d. "I will say that nothing can be more erroneous than the notion that the interests of agriculture are necessarily and intimately interwoven with the price of wheat. … I shall, however, be sincerely disappointed if any such reduction in the price of wheat should take place as would seriously injure the agricultural interest of this country; but what I want to show is, that agricultural prosperity has no necessary connexion with the price of wheat. I take it as admitted that there never was a period in which science was so much applied to agriculture, in which the improvements were so great, and the cost of production so reduced, as during the last three or four years. Then what has been the price of wheat? There is in this country a natural tendency to decline in the price of wheat, apart from legislation. In the ten years ending with 1805, the price of wheat was 81 s. d. s. d.; s. d.: s. d.; s. d.; s. d.; s. d. s. d. s. d.; 109 Times 110 pénétrés 111 "Never since I have known England have I known more than a comparative scarcity. The price of wheat, taking a number of years together, has had no very considerable fluctuations, nor has it risen exceedingly until within the last twelve months. Even now, I do not know of one man, woman, or child, that has perished for famine—fewer, if any, than in years of plenty, when such things may happen by accident. This is owing to a care and superintendence of the poor far greater than I remember. The consideration of this ought to bind us all, rich and poor together, against those wicked writers of the newspapers who would inflame the poor against their friends, guardians, patrons, and protectors." "Let us be saved from too much wisdom of our own, and we shall do tolerably well." 112 Liverpool Standard "Montreal, Feb. 25. "The possibility of an American war, which, until the arrival of the packet, was the all-engrossing topic, seems now to be viewed as but of minor importance, contrasted with the evil likely to result to the province from the contemplated changes in the Corn Laws and the duties generally. "Landed property here is now regarded as worth fifty per cent. less than it was previous to the arrival of the packet. Of course, the worst view is the one in which it is now looked at. "With regard to the immediate effect of these changes in our produce market, the prevailing opinion seems to be that the dearth of bread stuffs at home will neutralize, to a great extent, the evil that would otherwise have resulted from them, at least for this season. It is not expected that flour will fall in price immediately. "It is thought it will open at something between 27 s. d. s." 113 "Of all things an indiscreet tampering with the trade of provisions is the most dangerous, and it is always worst in the time when men are most disposed to it—that is, in the time of scarcity. Because there is nothing on which the passions of men are so violent, and their judgment so weak, and on which there exist such a multitude of ill-grounded prejudices." Morning Chronicle, "The injurious influence of the existing Corn Law has been stupidly and factiously exaggerated. Still, however, it is incontestable that the sliding-scale is productive of great loss and inconvenience; and we have seen that the substitution of a fixed duty of 5 s. s. 114 115 116 117 "Nous avons changé tout cela." 118
 MR. SPOONER  would not enter, on the present occasion, into the merits of the question, but he pressed upon the House the necessity of an inquiry into this subject, and of such an inquiry as could not be obtained in a Committee of the whole House. As to the statement of his right hon. Friend, that this measure had not been promised as an accompaniment to the Corn Bill, the argument of his right hon. Friend himself had proved that that statement was erroneous; for his right hon. Friend had contended that the recent measures of the Government would prove so beneficial to the towns, that they would consent to the additional burden cast on them by the present measure. The language of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government had been clear and specific—that, though this Bill was not intended actually as a compensation to the agricultural interest, that it should accompany and would mitigate the injury
 86 87
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  supposed that the right hon. Baronet was not aware, he probably had not been in the House when the hon. Baronet near him (Sir W. Somerville) announced his intention of proposing an Amendment to the Motion for the first reading.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  requested to know if it were quite decided that the Irish Coercion Bill should take precedence of the other Orders of the Day on Monday next, or whether, upon subsequent consideration, the right hon. Baronet had not thought it better to let the Corn Bill proceed first?
 MR. THORNELY : Sir, I think it is of much more importance to the House and to the country to know whether the Corn Bill is not to be read a third time before Easter, or until after Easter, than the discussion which has just now taken place. The trade of the country is in a state of stagnation in consequence of the slow progress of this Bill. I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman, whether or no he intends to propose the third reading of the Corn Bill before Easter; or whether, according to the statement of the noble Lord, it is to be postponed till after Easter?
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  said, there was one point on which he thought it was necessary to have some explanation. The noble Lord had said that some proposition was made to him on the part of the Government, in regard to the support which he and his party would give to the Irish Coercion Bill. He wished to know if that was the case; he wished to know if any proposition was made on the part of the Government to the party of which the noble Lord was the leader, in regard to the Irish Coercion Bill?
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, it was absolutely necessary, as the matter had become of so much importance, that there should not be the least disguise or concealment of what took place at the meeting to which his right hon. Friend alluded as being held on Friday morning. They met together to consider whether it was their duty to proceed with the Corn Bill without reference to the Bill for protection against murder and assassination in Ireland. He, in concert with his Colleagues, expressed their strong opinion, that it was indispensably necessary, notwithstanding their deep conviction of the importance of passing the Corn Bill; that considering the urgent necessity there was for the other measure becoming law, as well as the courtesy that was due with reference to a measure transmitted from the other House of Parliament, that the first reading of the Bill should be pressed through the House: but that no other step should be taken, and that no public measure on the part of the Government should be allowed to interfere with the uninterrupted progress of the Corn Bill through all its stages. That was the conclusion to which they came as to the course to be adopted; and they also came to this other conclusion, that it was indispensably necessary, in the circumstances of the case, that no compact should be entered into with any party; that the proceedings should be taken entirely on their own responsibility; and that there should be no understanding at all come to with any party, either in or out of the House, at variance with this responsibility which they assumed.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that he was sure that the House would condemn him, and he himself thought that he should be inexcusable, if he were led by the speech of the hon. Gentleman into a protracted debate on the question of the Poor Law, which would materially interfere with the important discussion they were now engaged in—namely, the debate on the Second Reading of the Corn Bill. He was most anxious to come to a clear understanding with respect to the law of removal. The speech of his right hon. Friend at the head of Her Majesty's Government on that subject, appeared to him to be most clear and intelligible, notwithstanding the impression it seemed to have produced on the mind of the hon. Gentleman. If he understood the points raised by the hon. Gentleman, they were two, both arising from a strange and forced construction put on two expressions which had fallen from his right hon. Friend. The first of these points was with regard to the law of settlement; and the second was that, this measure was intended as an accompaniment to the Corn Law. With respect to the first, he must state, that if it were his lot to open this Removal Bill to the House according to his apprehension of the subject, the speech made by his right hon. Friend, and which was alluded to by the hon. Member (Mr. Bankes), was the most accurate description which could be given of the objects of the Bill that was on the Table of the House. Under the correction of the highest legal authorities of the House, he should state that it would be difficult, if not impossible, to deal with the law of removal without dealing with the law of settlement; because the law of removal was part and parcel of the law of settlement. It was on that account that his right hon. Friend stated his intention of dealing with the law of settlement. The principle of the measure, which it was intended to pass through the House, was, that after an industrial residence of five years, a man should be entitled, though chargeable, not to be removed. He thought that his right hon. Friend spoke from a memorandum still extant, which was a conclusive proof that there was no inaccuracy in his description. With reference to the next objection, this measure was never intended by Her Majesty's Government as part
 83 84 85
 SIR R. PEEL : I rejoice to hear from my hon. Friend who spoke last, that he did not misunderstand the nature of the proposition I made to the House on the part of Her Majesty's Government. My hon. Friend, from his long and intimate connection with a large town, is a good judge on the subject of the law of settlement, and he distinctly tells us that he had no doubt about it; what was meant was to give a right of irremoveability, but it was never meant to confer a right of settlement. How can any man who reads the expressions I employed have a doubt upon the point? I used the word "irremoveability" as applied to the man, his wife, and children; and no terms, as it seems to me, could more clearly express what was the intention of Government. But for the removal of all possibility of doubt, I remember I was questioned as to whether it was intended by law to give, or not to give, a right of settlement; and my answer expressly was, "irremoveability, but not settlement." I did say that it was not to be looked upon as a measure of compensation; that it was proposed on its own account; that it was a positive good of itself; a benefit to the landed interest and a benefit to the poor: so that it had moral and social as well as other advantages. When I was asked whether we were attached to this measure as to the others, we said that we were, and that we considered ourselves pledged upon it. I said so then, and I now say that I feel under a positive obligation to do every thing I can in order to insure to the agricultural interest that advantage, and independently of that interest to insure to the poor that protection which I am of opinion they ought to have. At the same time, I cannot consent to let the discussion of the Poor Removal Bill interfere with the decision of the House on the Corn Bill; but I say again, that I feel a positive obligation, by every exertion in my power, to ensure the passing of the Poor Removal Bill. My hon. Friend tells the House fairly that he did not misunderstand me; he entertains no doubt, but he seems to think that an inquiry
 88
 SIR R. PEEL  was not aware that notice had been given of any Amendment; and he did hope that hon. Gentlemen opposite would feel, that as there would be so many opportunities of discussion afforded during the many subsequent stages through which the Bill would have to pass, no debate would be urged upon the first reading. He trusted that hon. Gentlemen would perceive that abundant opportunities would be afforded to discuss the Bill, to render it unnecessary for them to adopt the course of commencing an opposition so early as the first reading, and thereby delaying the progress of the other important measures.
 SIR R. PEEL  must adhere to the original intentions of the Government.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  observed, that the House must perceive that it was wholly out
 89
 SIR R. PEEL  had stated, on a former occasion, the intentions of Her Majesty's Government regarding the precedence of the several measures alluded to by the hon. Gentleman, and they had seen no reason since to alter their determination. The "Bill for the Prevention of Assassination in Ireland," for he did not call it a Coercion Bill, he had stated should be brought forward, and he had added that it was the only Government Bill which should be permitted to interpose between the remaining stases of the Corn Bill. He had stated
 77
 SIR R. PEEL : In answer to the question which has been put by the hon. Gentleman opposite, I distinctly state I never authorized such a proposal to be made. I never understood that any engagement was entered into by the noble Lord to support the Coercion Bill. At this moment I understand the noble Lord to be at perfect liberty to oppose the Coercion Bill, and I distinctly declare that I never authorized any communication to be made to the noble Lord with respect to the support of the Irish Coercion Bill. I can only state for myself and the Government that, either directly or indirectly, I never authorized any communication to be made in respect to the Coercion Bill, and up to this hour I never understood the noble Lord to be under the slightest engagement to support that Bill. The hon. Gentleman asked me, did I think it probable that the Corn Bill would pass before Easter? I think it is of consequence that it should pass before Easter; however, it is impossible for me to say it will pass before Easter; but no effort on my part shall be wanting to expedite that Bill, as much as possible. I am sorry for any misunderstanding; but I must declare, in the face of the House, that I never authorized any communication to be made to the noble. Lord as to the future progress of the Corn Bill after to-morrow night. I never authorized any communication to be made to the noble Lord with respect to the future proceedings on this Bill; and I distinctly asked my hon. Friend to explain to the noble Lord that he was not authorized by me to enter into any engagement. I ask my hon. Friends who met me on Friday, whether the whole of my conversation with them must not have left the impression on their minds that I was perfectly free from any engagement as to the course to be pursued. And the declaration I have made to the House, in answer to the question of the noble Lord is in perfect conformity with that statement. There are two or three of
 143
 SIR R. PEEL : I have entered into no such arrangement.
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, if there has been any arrangement, it was entirely the speculation of my hon. Friend. I said to my hon. Friend, "Ask the noble Lord" (for it is absolutely necessary on questions of public business, in order to conduct it, that some understanding should be come to). I told my hon. Friend to ask the noble Lord what course he intended to pursue with respect to the debate on the Corn Bill; but I distinctly say, that my hon. Friend was not authorized by me to enter into any arrangement with the noble Lord. Since then the discussion has been carried on on the perfect understanding that there had been no arrangement. I consider myself perfectly at liberty to postpone the Irish Coercion Bill; and I have, since the conversation to which the noble Lord adverts, come down to this House and made a statement which would be quite inconsistent with the understanding or agreement which the noble Lord had been speaking of. If there be any mistake or misunderstanding, I feel bound to say that the engagement did not originate with me. I should be sorry if my hon. Friend made any mistake, and still more so if the noble Lord should suffer by it; but I do not think the noble Lord or his friends have forfeited any advantage, or lost any opportunity by what has taken place. I distinctly
 139
 SIR R. PEEL : It is proposed to commit it to-morrow.
 The MARQUESS of WORCESTER  quite agreed with one observation at least which had fallen from the hon. Member, and it was this, "That incoherence of argument evinced the presence of fear." That he
 205 s. 206
 MR. GARDNER  did not desire to waste the time of the House by the expression of merely his own sentiments; but his constituents naturally wished to hear his opinions upon these measures expressed in Parliament, inasmuch as he had, in his addresses to them, stated that he had offered himself to them on the ground of protection, and not of free trade. He did not think Her Majesty's Government had a sufficient case to justify their adoption of this measure. He was ready to admit that the potato failure was considerable, and much to be deplored; at the same time, it had appeared to him to have been much exaggerated by the panic which had been caused upon the subject; and his opinion was that this measure ought not to have been formed on such a basis. The right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Graham) had endeavoured to convince the House of the necessity for the measure on the ground of the potato failure, in opposition to the able statements of the right hon. Gentleman the Recorder of Dublin; but when he found that the price of potatoes in Ireland was but about 4 d. s. d. d. d. d. d. 207 l.; 208
 MR. STAFFORD O'BRIEN  said, deep as was his respect for the House, and anxious as he was to consult its feeling, he trusted he might be permitted for a short time to make a few remarks on what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, and to vindicate the position which the party favourable to the principle of protection occupied in that House. The right hon. Baronet said at the close of his speech that if he fell he should fall because during the whole course of his official career he had endeavoured to mitigate monopoly and give a greater degree of freedom to commerce. He thought, skilful as the right hon. Gentleman was in making out his own case, and anxious to vindicate his personal good faith, he had not entirely made out satisfactorily the cause of his fall, and that his statement was not quite so comprehensive as he boasted his measure to be. If he fell, it would not be because, during his long official career, his endeavour had been to mitigate monopoly. He thought the epithet "official" could scarce be applied to merely the last three years, because, if they looked beyond that, the tale would be totally different. The principle the right hon. Baronet now espoused might be right or wrong; but for the ten years that had preceded the last three years, the labours of the right hon. Baronet had been to construct and build up a party to oppose freedom of trade; and he believed the principles the right hon. Baronet then professed were just, and sound, and true. Nobly had the right hon. Baronet laboured, and ably his party had supported him; and when the noble Lord (Russell) had removed to the opposite side of the House, it remained for the right hon. Baronet to earn a still higher name, not only as the successful leader of a party, but as the conductor of a great constitutional body. Whatever his opinion might be as to the fall of the right hon. Baronet, he would never admit that he had stated his case fairly, when he said that during his official career he had laboured to remove the restrictions
 249 250 251 Cheers. d. 252
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that the incoherency of thought and argument which was perceptible in the speech of the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down, was the usual indication of alarm, and should be therefore regarded as a proof that the alarm expressed by the hon. and learned Gentleman at the result of this measure was real. The hon. and learned Member had been rather indignant with him in one part of his speech, because he had ventured to smile at the remark which he had made, that the existence of manufactures and commerce depended upon the agriculture of the country, whereas if commerce and manufactures perished, the fertility of the soil would still continue. His smile was caused by the thought of what would become of the fertility of the soil if no manufactures or commerce existed. The argument of the hon. and learned Member reminded him of a sentiment in the poetry of the hon. Member's noble Colleague (Lord John Manners)—
 "Let wealth and commerce, laws and learning, die; But leave us still our old nobility." 201 "Let wealth and commerce, laws and learning, die; But leave us still our old fertility." 202 203 204 s. d. s.; s. s. d. s. s. d. d. d. d.
 MR. C. BULLER  said, that he wished to ask a question of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department. He had learned with great regret that the Government persisted in taking the first reading of the Irish Coercion Bill, or whatever else it might be called, on Monday next, as the Motion must lead to a warm and lengthy debate. He had moved for Returns of the outrages which had been committed in Ireland during a certain period, but they had not been presented; and he thought it rather hard that the House should be called on to enter upon a discussion of that measure without knowing the real grounds on which they ought to proceed. He wanted to know, therefore, whether the right hon. Baronet
 272
 MR. NEWDEGATE  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Treasury whether it was his intention to introduce a Bill to afford facilities for draining estates, and for consolidating the highway expenditure? Also, whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to provide for the payment of the schoolmasters of union workhouses, and for the Irish constabulary force, these being the measures which the right hon. Gentleman announced at the commencement of the Session as forming part of the five measures he intended to propose for the consideration of the House, upon the subject of legislation for Ireland?
 MR. MILDMAY  was desirous of stating why it was that he felt himself compelled to take a different course in regard to this question, from that at any time expected to be in reference to any measure emanating from the present Government benches. He was not in the House during the last discussion of this question, not because he then entertained a different opinion upon it from that which he now held, but because he could not think it right to oppose a Motion for going into Committee upon a Resolution introduced by Her Majesty's Government; and upon a subject which had formed a prominent paragraph in the Speech which had been delivered by Her Majesty to her Parliament. He had, therefore, abstained from voting on that occasion, because he was reluctant to be numbered among the supporters of a measure of which he disapproved. They had now, however, arrived at a further stage of the measure, and he could not refuse to take a straightforward part, whether in support of, or in opposition, to it. In the course he felt himself compelled to adopt, he could not but own that he felt the greatest reluctance in coming to a decision that would place him among the opponents of those with whom he had hitherto acted since he had been in Parliament, and to whom he was disposed to give every credit for the sincerity of their motives for the change of opinion which, upon this subject, they had adopted. But he was anxious to guard himself against its being supposed that he at all coincided in that laudatory view which the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard had taken of those changes of opinion; for the hon. Member seemed to think that the more people changed the better they were—leaving the impression strong upon his mind, that, at an early period of his life, the hon. and learned Gentleman must have been a Conservative. However anxious he had been to agree in the views of Her Majesty's Government upon this question, and though he admitted that it was quite open to them to change their opinions, yet his own opinions were not formed in the same way as theirs: he could not turn so short; for, indeed, the shortness of the notice itself made it quite
 209 210 211 212 213
 MR. STUART  (Newark) : Sir, I feel anxious to make a few observations on the subject of this debate. It seems to me that through the whole course of the discussion, which has lasted for many nights, great temper and forbearance has on the whole been shown, and especially by those hon. Members among whom I sit. I think almost every Gentleman who has spoken in condemnation of the new measure of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government has attributed to him and to his Colleagues the purest and best motives for the opinions which they now profess. I think, Sir, that whatever is said in Parliament by persons in authority is entitled to respectful attention. Feeling on my own part this respect, I am anxious to think as favourably as I can of any measure proposed by those who are entrusted by Her Majesty with the government of the country. And I have been the more disposed, Sir, to listen with respect to all that has been urged from the Treasury bench in this discussion, because the measure on which we are deliberating is proposed not by a young and inexperienced statesman, but by one of tried ability and experience, whose conduct in public affairs has stood the test of many years, and in whom, until very lately, we have long reposed our confidence. With these feelings, Sir, and after the forbearance which has been shown, it is with the deepest regret that I have heard the right hon. Baronet who has just sat down, attribute to a right hon. Gentleman near me—attribute to the right hon. the Recorder of Dublin (Mr. Shaw), the basest motives as actuating him in opposing the present measure. Sir, I think that the character of that right hon. Gentleman is sufficiently known in this House and in the country, to make us all feel that the imputation is unfounded, ungenerous, and unjust; and it has been received by the House in such a way that I rather think the right hon. Baronet must now feel that he has made a mistake. What is said in such a spirit, and so wholly undeserved, can never find favour, I trust, in this House. Nothing shall tempt me, Sir, I trust, to depart from that respect which is due to the station and talents of the right hon. the Secretary for the Home Department;
 187 188 189 190 191 192 "But the serious part of the matter is this: these very men have been the Government of the country; these very men and their class have been astride the Prime Ministers and most eminent statesmen who have governed the country for these fifty years. You read the speeches of Lord Southampton and Sir Charles Knightley; they are the very type of the men who have been governing you and your forefathers; and it is frightful to contemplate what the country has had to endure under the guidance of those men. Under their guidance did I say? No! the country has not exactly been guided by them; we have always had Prime Ministers who have contrived in some degree to evade them—men, for instance, who, like Sir R. Peel in his Canada Corn Bill, concocted some measures with a view to relieve a little the country from the misgovernment of these boobies; calculating, perhaps, as in that memorable instance, upon their ignorance of geography. When they saw these men resolved to starve us, they knew it was no good arguing with them on political economy; and they open a back-door through Canada, being well aware of the fact that these men don't know the St. Lawrence from the Mississippi." "I know this for a fact. The idea originated in the Board of Trade with a man who chuckled to the day of his death in having originated an idea that succeeded in evading those squires. Such is the class of people who, in their blind ignorance,
 193 194 195 196 197 198 199 Hansard, Hansard, 200 Hansard
 MR. COBDEN  said, he had to present a petition from a number of tenant-farmers on the Netherby estate, in Cumberland. They expressed their conviction that the measures proposed by Government were most important, and stated that they viewed them with the greatest satisfaction; though they could not refrain from adding that total and immediate repeal of the Corn Laws would have met with their more hearty approbation. The noble Lord the Member for Lynn (Lord G. Bentinck) had recently presented a petition from the same quarter, signed by 3,000 farmers and others, against the removal of the existing protection; but he (Mr. Cobden) was glad to congratulate the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir J. Graham) on the fact that all his tenants were not of the same way of thinking on this important question.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said: I can assure you, Sir, and the House, that I am very unwilling to prolong this protracted debate, which I believe the country at large sincerely desires to see terminated by some decision of this House, be that decision what it may; but having failed in the course of last evening to obtain that opportunity of addressing you which I was desirous of taking, I do not think it would be proper that this discussion should terminate without adverting to some of the observations and arguments which have been used in the course of this debate. I cannot pass over without notice the petition that has just been presented by the hon. Member for Stockport; and I can assure the House that I was not cognizant either of that petition, or of the petition which was presented on a former occasion by the noble Lord the Member for Lynn (Lord G. Bentinck), from a portion of my tenantry taking opposite views on the same question. It is needless for me to assure the House that, neither directly nor indirectly, by myself nor by any of my agents, have I interfered, in the slightest or the most remote degree, with the expression of the opinions of my tenantry on this subject. I have left them,
 161 162 s. s. 163 s. communibus annis, s. 164 165 s. s. 166 167 "I have been on a visit to Lord Wemyss for some days, and have had an opportunity of learning the opinions of the East Lothian and Berwickshire farmers to a considerable extent. Lord Wemyss' property in this county is, with one exception, the largest in it; and his factor, a clever sensible man, tells me that there is not a farm in this county or Berwickshire now to let that there are not more offers, and higher offers too, than he ever saw made for them, and by men of skill and capital. I asked how he accounted for this? His answer was, 'the corn question is now considered as settled; and the prospect held out of getting the land drained by the landlords, instead of having to lay out the money themselves as formerly, has created a general feeling of confidence among all intelligent farmers.' One gentleman of this county stated, that on a property in Berwickshire, on which he was trustee, he had five offers from men of known character as first-rate farmers, the amount of which was 10 l. 168 "I received a letter from the Duke of Bedford, a day or two ago, with the following postscript:—'I received a letter this morning from my Cambridgeshire steward, to inform me that he had just let two farms for me to very intelligent men, father and son, with ample capital, at an increase of 126 l. l. 169 Cheering. 170 l., l. 171 d. d. d. d. 172 "Sir—I beg leave to send you an extract from a Dublin morning' paper, which will give you a correct account of the measures which the council of this society have adopted, respecting the prevailing disease in the potato crop. I beg leave also to state that when I issued a circular about a month since to the secretaries of one hundred and twenty local societies in connexion with the central one, I got several answers from persons stating that the disease was not then apparent in their immediate neighbourhood; but I have since received letters from most of them, stating that, upon digging the crops, they found the disease in almost every quarter, and I may safely say it appeared that there is not a county in Ireland that is not more or less affected by it. Since my return from the cattle show at Ballinasloe my office has been filled with specimens of the diseased potatoes from all quarters. The council of this society have directed their labour to two objects. First, to obtain the latest and most accurate information respecting the actual nature of the disease, in the different localities, through the machinery at our command, and to transmit the same from time to time, to the Irish Government at the Castle. Secondly, to institute the series of experiments within described, under the direction of Professor Kane, for the purpose of deciding upon saving the remnants of the crop, which now undoubtedly appears to be in the greatest jeopardy. The result of these experiments shall be carefully matured and communicated. I shall merely add, Sir, that the greatest panic appears to exist in all parts of the community, and those who know the country best are most puzzled how to act. One thing, however, I think is certain—that enough has already transpired to justify the most prompt and energetic measures on the part of the public and the Government." "My dear Sir—I am sorry it will not be in my power to attend the special meeting of the council this day. If, as I apprehend, the accounts from the different parts of Ireland concur in representing
 173 "The price of potatoes is so high, and they are of so bad a quality, that they are no longer used in the poorhouse here, bread being substituted. Nearly all the potatoes on the quay come in coasting vessels from the county of Wexford, where it appears the soil is sandy, and where the mayor informs me the disease has done very little injury; but the price is 6 d. 174 "Some of the crops of potatoes planted in January have been examined, and the seed has been found to have generally rotted. The ground will most probably be turned up in April, and sown with oats or barley." "Dear Sir James—I regret to have to report to you a further unfavourable account of the potatoes in this district, in the southern part of which, I may say, they are, literally speaking, totally gone; the peasantry having now discovered, on opening their pits, the true state of them. I witnessed on Friday last that in many, instead of picking them by hand, they actually shovelled them out. On my return from Kule yesterday evening, I found a great number of persons (from fifty to sixty) waiting to complain to me of their misfortunes, which I assure you are great indeed; one person, with a family of six children, stated his crop to be now reduced to about six creels (8 cwt.)." 
 
 Proportion of the Potato Crop Lost. Number of Electoral Divisions in which the annexed Proportions of the Potato Crop were returned lost, condensed from Constabulary Reports of 
 Jan. 15, 1845. Feb. 15, 1846. 
 Between 8–10ths and 9–10ths 3 2 
 Between 7–10ths and 8–10ths 97 125 
 Between 6–10ths and 7–10ths 124 184 
 Between 5–10ths and 6–10ths 11 14 
 Between 4–10ths and 5–10ths 640 673 
 Between 3–10ths and 4–10ths 613 557 
 Between 2–10ths and 4–10ths 283 252 
 Between 1–10th and 2–10ths 156 135 
 Not exceeding 9–10ths 113 102 
 No loss 9 6 
 Not returned 3 2 
 Total number of Electoral Divisions 2,052 2,052 175
 SIR J. GRAHAM  regretted very much that anything should interrupt the progress of the Corn Law; but the Government had already declared their intention to proceed on Monday with the first reading of the Bill for the Protection of Life in Ireland. He believed that in the House of Lords no Papers were produced; but that the Members of that House agreed to the measure upon the statement of the noble Earl by whom it was brought forward. The Returns for which the hon. Member had moved could not yet be produced in a perfect form; but he should have hoped that the Bill might have been read a first time without opposition, as was usually done, as a matter of courtesy, with a Bill which came down from the other House of Parliament. With the single exception of the Coercion Bill of 1833, he believed that every Bill which came down from the other House was read a first time as a matter of course. A resistance to the first reading would be, to say the least, very unusual; and he only regretted that it would be his duty, on Monday next, at five o'clock, to move that the Protection of Life (Ireland) Bill be read a first time.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said: Sir, the hon. Gentleman who spoke last appears to have repented of the neutrality which he observed on a former occasion, and to have determined to make up for that neutrality by the sharpness of his present attack. I have heard, indeed, from one hon. Gentleman, the Member for Newark, a young Member of this House, that I have been treated with marked forbearance during the discussion upon this measure. I think, then, that under the circumstances I might have expected a little more indulgence from the hon. Member for Winchester. I did, it is true, present two petitions, one from Manchester, and one from Liverpool; and the hon. Gentleman is so captious, that he finds even in the performance of that duty grounds for making an attack upon me. All I did, however, was to state the prayer of these petitions. The petitioners are connected with the manufacturing and commercial interests of the country; and I think that the hon. Gentleman, considering the community of occupation between himself and the petitioners, might have allowed them unquestioned to speak for themselves. The petition from Manchester was signed by the President of the Chamber of Commerce—a body entertaining strong political opinions, and many of whom have been connected with the agitation for the repeal of the Corn Laws. In order, however, to show the unanimity of opinion which prevailed upon this question, the petition was also signed by the President of the Commercial
 214 215 Interruption 216 217 218 "In Sir Robert Peel's speech there had not been one word uttered attempting to contradict the two first Resolutions of his hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton. Had the last Resolution been worded to the effect 'that it was expedient that all restrictions on the importation of corn be gradually abolished,' the right hon. Baronet's speech would have been an unanswerable speech in support of the hon. Member's Motion." "That, in consequence of the declarations made by several leading Members of Government during the last Session of Parliament, it was evident that a further reduction would be attempted in the already greatly diminished amount of protection now afforded to agriculture, and that, in consequence of such interpretation being put on these declarations, an impression, well or ill-founded, is circulated, calculated to destroy all confidence in the stability of the present Corn Laws, and to arrest the progress now making in the improvement of inferior lands." 219 220 221 "I cannot consent to the issue of these instructions, and undertake at the same time to maintain the existing Corn Law. Slight modifications of the existing law, as the consequence of these instructions, or immediately following them, would, in my opinion, answer no good end. The proposal of them would add to the difficulty of defending that portion of the Corn Law which it was sought to maintain. I think we ought to suspend the operation of the existing law for a limited period. There is conflicting evidence as to the degree of pressure from the scarcity of food; but there is that probability of severe pressure a few months hence that would in my opinion amply justify the precautionary measure of unrestricted import. We have written authority which would justify it, written authority which, should the anticipations of those from whom we receive it prove correct, would impose on us a heavy responsibility for having neglected a precaution which has been taken in former periods of scarcity in this country, and by some countries in Europe within the last week. But, independently of these considerations, the issue of these instructions fully justifies, if it does not requite the temporary removal of impediments to the free import of corn. They contain a proof not only that the crisis is great—not only that there is the probability of severe suffering from the scarcity of food; but the proof that we are ourselves convinced of it. It appears to me that the suspension of the Corn Law would be the course most consistent with these instructions. I will not refer to the preceding discussions in the Cabinet; but the issue of these instructions, placing on record our deliberate conviction as to the possible extent of the evil with which we have to contend as a new event. By acting now, the lapse of time since we last met in Cabinet would be accounted for. I am prepared for one to take the responsibility of suspending the law by an Order in Council, or of calling Parliament at a very early period, and advising in the Speech from the Throne the suspension of the law. I conceal from myself none of the difficulties that attend a suspension of the law. Suspension
 222 223 224 225 "The first objection is, what I heard alluded to by the hon. Gentleman opposite to me, when His Majesty's Message was brought down, namely, that the Parliament of Ireland is incompetent to entertain and discuss the question, or rather, to act upon the measure proposed, without having previously obtained the consent of the people of Ireland, their constituents. This point, Sir, is of so much importance, that I think I ought not to suffer the opportunity to pass without illustrating more fully what I mean. If this principle of the incompetency of Parliament to the decision of the measure be admitted, or if it be contended that Parliament has no legitimate authority to discuss and decide upon it, you will be driven to the necessity of recognizing a principle the most dangerous that ever was adopted in any civilized State—I mean the principle that Parliament cannot adopt any measure new in its nature, and of great importance, without appealing to the constituent and delegating authority for directions. If that doctrine be true, look to what an extent it will carry you. If such an argument could be set up and maintained, you acted without any legitimate authority when you created the representation of the Principality of Wales, or of either of the counties palatine of England. Every law that Parliament ever made, without that appeal, either as to its own frame and constitution, as to the qualification of the electors or the elected, as to the great and fundamental point of the succession to the Crown, was a breach of treaty and an act of usurpation." "What must be said by those who have at any time been friends to any plan of Parliamentary Reform, and particularly such as have been most recently brought forward, either in Great Britain or Ireland? Whatever may have been thought of the propriety of the measure, I never heard any doubt of the competency of Parliament to consider and discuss it. Yet I defy any man to maintain the principle of those plans, without contending that, as a Member of Parliament, he possesses a right to concur in disfranchising those who sent him to Parliament, and to select others, by whom he was not elected, in their stead, I am sure that no sufficient distinction, in point of principle, can be successfully maintained for a single moment; nor should I deem it necessary to dwell on this point in the manner that I do were I not convinced that it is connected in part with all those false and dangerous notions on the subject of Government which have lately become too prevalent in the world." 226 "You might have dealt with maize and nothing else; maize is the food the Irish people require, and why not admit maize and nothing else?" s. 227 s. s. "I cannot deny that there is a great scarcity, and also that there is great danger of disease; but these are common things in Ireland—this is the normal state of Ireland. A large portion of the Irish people," said he, "are always living on the verge of destitution. There has been no year in my recollection when the same statement as to disease might not be made." 228 and ironical cheers from the protection benches. 229 230 s. l. s. 231 l. s. s. s. d. s. d. s. d.; d.; d.; d.; d.; s. d. s. d. bonâ fide s. s. s., s.; d.; d.; d.; d.; s. d.; d., s. d. s. s. s. d. 232 l. l. l. 233 s.; s. s. s., s. 234 "In consequence of your excluding foreign corn by your high duties, there has been an accumulation of corn in many foreign markets." "It is this accumulation which depresses the agricultural interest, by the exaggerated representation of its amount when we have an abundant harvest, and by the too rapid influx whenever the harvests are deficient." s. "The penning up of wheat (continues Mr. Jacob) in countries of small extent soon creates a glut in such countries, although the quantity really accumulated there may be very minute, and such as, if distributed here, would produce no sensible decline in price. A few thousand quarters of wheat, for instance, in Holstein, Mecklenburgh, or Denmark, for which there was no foreign market, would reduce the price even below the half; the seller must take what is offered, and the reluctant buyer will offer a very low rate. A small sale fixes the price in such cases." s. s. d., s. d. s. d.: s. d. s. s., 235 s. d. s. s., s. s.; s. s., s. d. s. d. s. d. s., s. s. d.; 236 s. s. s., s. s., 237 s. s. s. s. 238 s. s. s.; 239 240 s. d. s. d. 
 
 In 1837 the price was 53 s. 10 d. 
 1838 64 s. 7 d. 
 1839 70 s. 8 d. 
 1840 66 s. 4 d. 
 1841 64 s. 4 d. 
 1842 57 s. 3 d. 
 1843 50 s. 1 d. 
 1844 51 s. 2 d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d., 241 s. s. 
 
 In 1837 10s. per week. 
 1838 11 s. 
 1839 11 s. 
 1840 11 s. 
 1841 11 s. 
 1842 11 s. 
 1843 10 s. 
 1844 10 s. s. d. s. d., s. s. "The statement on the other side was given me by four different yeomen. It is only the first-rate labourer that gets 9 s. s. s. 242 
 
 In 1837 the price of wages was 7 s. 
 1838 8 s. 
 1839 8 s. 
 1840 8 s. 
 1841 8 s. 
 1842 8 s. 
 1843 8 s. 
 1844 8 s. s. d. s. d., s. d. s. s. s. s.; s.; s.; s.; s.; s.; s.; s. s. "In reply to your letter of the 8th instant, I beg to state that the rate of wages in this union has not varied from 1837 to 1844. Labourers have been in the habit of receiving 8 s. s. s. s. s.; s. s. d. s. d. "I have inquired of several farmers residing in various parts of this union the amount of agricultural wages during the years 1837 to 1844 inclusive, and have ascertained that, in general, the sum paid was 8 s. s.; s. "The variation of wages in this neighbourhood has been from 8 s. s. s. d. s. d. 243 "The supply of labour is greater than the demand in this neighbourhood, and the price of labour is, in fact, what the farmer chooses to give; but he invariably raises his wages and lowers them with the price of corn, thongh never in the same proportions. Consequently the poor are better off with low than with high prices. Ton will at once see that 8 s. s. d. s. s. d., "The general wages paid by the farmers of this parish have fluctuated from 9 s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. 244 245 246 247 248
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that with respect to the last two points to which the hon. Gentleman had adverted, namely, a provision for the payment of schoolmasters of union workhouses, and for defraying, at the public charge, the expenses of the constabulary in Ireland, provision must be made for these in a Committee of Supply. It would be impossible to bring in a Bill until Votes had passed such a Committee. But at an early period after a Committee had sanctioned the proposal, a Bill would be introduced upon those two subjects. With regard to the other two points—the Drainage Bill, and the Bill for consolidating the Highway Trusts—he was sure the hon. Gentleman and the House must be aware of the extreme pressure upon the time of Her Majesty's Government for a long while past. There was no intentional delay on their part. The announcement of these measures led to a great number of suggestions and communications. The Government had applied all their leisure
 160
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I am anxious to state as shortly as I can to the House, the view which I take of the two questions which have formed the subject of our debate; both of great, though not of equal importance; the one commercial, the other constitutional; the one arising out of the measures of the Government, the other out of their conduct; the one being the question, whether the Corn Laws shall be repealed, and the principle of competition shall be substituted for the principle of protection as the foundation of our
 253 254 255 256 257 258 259 in articulo mortis; s. s. 260 261 262 263 264 265 "purchased dear Short intermission, bought with double smart."
 MR. SMITH O'BRIEN , in seconding the Motion, said he was anxious to take the earliest opportunity of addressing the House, in the hope—and he feared it was a vain hope—that by appealing to the right hon. Gentleman on the Treasury bench, they might be induced not to persevere in their present course, with the idle expectation they could succeed in it. They were now about to enter on a contest which would continue for months—a contest, he said, which the Members for Ireland wished to avoid; but which, when once forced upon them, he could assure those who listened to him, that no inconsiderable portion of the Irish Members were determined to take advantage of every form that House permitted, and that, too, to defeat a Bill which they believed would have no other effect than to exasperate Ireland without suppressing a single crime. He appealed to the right hon. Gentleman opposite to remember that the population of Ireland were starving, and that they should rather encourage Members to return to
 294 295
 MR. O'CONNELL  said, the right hon. Baronet had talked of the threats of his hon. Friend the Member for the county of Limerick, of availing himself of the forms of the House to give every opposition in his power to this Bill; but what did the right hon. Baronet do himself? Did he not call upon the House to trample upon one of the Sessional Orders, and to deprive the Irish people of the protection of that Order? That Order was made for the protection of the public, that no person should be taken by surprise; and surely there ought to be notice given of any Motion for the purpose of suspending that Order. Did the right hon. Baronet believe that the Irish people would not be much more affected at finding a Sessional Order that was made for their protection trampled under foot—would not the moral effect of such a course, in order to get a Coercion Bill for Ireland, be much greater than could be produced by a majority of that House? They were accustomed to have
 307
 MR. DILLON BROWNE  moved that the debate be adjourned.
 MR. O'CONNELL  seconded the Motion.
 MR. SMITH O'BRIEN  rose, amid loud cries of "go on," and observed that it was not the intention of the Irish Members to oppose this Bill by means of repeated adjournments: on the contrary, they were desirous that the amplest discussion should take place; aad if opportunity for such discussion were afforded, they doubted not but that they would be able to show that many of the evils of which the Government complained so bitterly were to be attributed to the misrule and neglect of the Government themselves. But he supported the Motion for the adjournment on the present occasion, because it was now within half an hour of twelve o'clock; and as the hon. and learned Member for Cork, who had an Amendment on the books, would probably occupy two hours, if not more, with his address, he thought it was scarcely reasonable to ask his hon. and learned Friend to proceed at that unseasonable hour of the night.
 MR. O'CONNELL  was ready to go on, but he was very unwilling to do so, if it could be avoided, at that late hour; for the case he had to deal with was a very heavy and a very important one, and he must consume a very considerable period in addressing the House. He trusted that there was a tendency to conduct this measure in an amicable manner; and, if so, he implored them not to press them (the Irish Members) unnecessarily at that late hour to a statement which might be a lengthened one. They had already been sitting seven hours.
 LORD CLAUDE HAMILTON  ridiculed the idea of the Irish Members requiring an adjournment at that early hour. He thought it an exceedingly selfish proceeding, and which argued very little practical patriotism, that three Irish Members should stand up and insist upon the adjournment of the House, merely that they might retire to bed or elsewhere, to consult their own convenience. Surely, it could not be that their constitutions were worn out by their sedulous discharge of their Parliamentary duties; for many of them had not been soon for months in that House until that night. The hon. Member for Mayo, who had moved the adjournment, looked all freshness, and the very picture of health; and yet so anxious was he for the preservation of his senatorial health, that he would force the House to adjourn that he might have an opportunity of going to bed early.
 MR. DILLON BROWNE  said, that after the pointed allusion which had been made to him by the noble Lord opposite, he trusted the House would indulge him while he ventured to say a few words. The noble Lord had declared that he (Mr. Dillon Browne) should not, with his strong Irish feelings, entertain a desire to go to bed at that early hour. He (Mr. Browne) could not help thinking that it would have been well for the House, and for the noble Lord himself, if the noble Lord had gone to bed long ago. But, despite of the noble Lord's irrational gesticulations, and not-withanding that he was, upon the present occasion as offensive as it was his usual habit to be to Members of that House, he (Mr. Browne) would maintain his equanimity, and would endeavour to treat that House with respect, by pursuing a very opposite course to that pursued by the noble Lord. He would respectfully state to the House his reason for moving the adjournment. He did so, because he knew that his hon. and learned Friend the Member
 363
 LORD J. RUSSELL  thought the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) had put the question upon very fair grounds. He thought, however, that if the debate were to be adjourned until to-morrow, it would be a hardship to call upon the hon. and learned Member for Cork to address the House. He hoped, however, that they would be able to proceed at once with the debate, and that hon. Gentlemen who had notices of Motions on the Paper would consent to postpone them.
 LORD WORSLEY  begged, considering the position in which he was placed, to be allowed to explain the ground on which he proposed to give his vote, otherwise it might be construed into a factious vote against the Government, than which nothing could be farther from his views. He asked the House to recollect the condition in which the agriculturists had been placed since November. They had been in a state of great uncertainty. In November last the farmers expected the ports would be opened, and that a great alteration in the Corn trade would occur. Ever since that period there had been great dismay and uncertainty in the corn trade. The sales that took place were only what might be called to provide a supply from hand to mouth; and as this uncertainty unquestionably existed, he was only taking that course which, conversant as he was with the feelings of the farmers, and acting up to the feelings of his constituents, he was satisfied was the most expedient. He was desirous of putting an end to further delay on the Corn Bill. He might say he should now be glad if no further opposition took place to the Bill; for after the decided majorities on two occasions, he felt he should not be justified in resisting the third reading of the Bill. If another division took place, he should record his vote against the Bill, as he had already done; but on account of the strong feeling which he entertained of the impolicy of de-
 324
 MR. S. HERBERT  said, it was impossible to deny that the Government was placed in a position of great difficulty in
 313 314 315 pari passu
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said, as he felt that he had been misunderstood by the noble Lord the Member for London, the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of War, and the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel), he begged to be allowed to state distinctly what he did say to the House. It was, that Government would be responsible for every murder committed in Ireland if any unnecessary delay was practised on their part in passing a measure which Her Majesty's Ministers had introduced, as they said, for the better protection of life in Ireland.
 LORD G. BENTINCK : My hon. Friend has appealed to me as the leader of a party. I beg to say that whilst I am proud to serve in the ranks of the protectionists, I think it right to state I have never set myself up for their leader; but since they do sometimes request me to express the feelings of the greater part of them, I am able to state that, if the day should come, which some hon. Gentlemen seem to anticipate, when we shall be responsible for the government of Ireland, the principles of protection will not be extended to the broad-day murderer and the midnight assassin. Protection will be given to the loyal and the well conducted—to the honest and the poor man in the pursuit of his lawful functions. I condemn, as strongly as any man can condemn, the dilatory proceedings of
 308 309 310
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that with respect to the Motion of the right hon. Baronet as to the postponing of the Orders of the Day, so as to enable him to propose the first reading of the Protection of Life (Ireland) Bill, he was satisfied to rest on what had been said by his right hon. Friend the Member for Devonport; but one or two circumstances had taken place in the course of the debate, which he felt compelled to take notice of before going to a division. He would not interfere one way or the other in the charge of his noble Friend the Member for Lynn, or the defence of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, as to the delay which was said to have occurred in bringing forward this measure, and to not having pressed it forward when introduced. He trusted that the noble Lord who disclaimed the name of leader of his party, but who still admitted that he spoke the sentiments of the majority of those with whom he acted, would not be so rash and hasty in bringing charges against any person or party on insufficient evidence, as he thought the noble Lord had been that evening. With regard to the question before the House, both the right hon. Secretary and the right hon. Gentleman placed it on entirely different grounds from those on which it was placed the other evening by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, when they said that it was most desirable that the principle of the Bill should be sanctioned by reading it the first time, as the moral effect which such a proceeding would produce in Ire-
 316 317 318
 MR. C. POWELL  considered he was not asking anything unreasonable in calling upon the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government to listen to the real wishes of the people of England, that the Corn Bill take precedence of every other measure. He should like to ask the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord G. Bentinck) to favour the House with a minute of the negotiation which had lately taken place between him and the Government upon the present measure.
 MR. CALEB POWELL  remarked, that all the Irish Members wanted was, that they should be permitted full opportunity of submitting in detail to the consideration of the House the facts and representations which constituted their case.
 The SPEAKER : The right hon. Gentleman can only allude to a former debate, if permitted by the indulgence of the House.
 The SPEAKER : The hon. and gallant Member is out of order in alluding to any debate in the other House. The noble Lord did not allude to any debate that had occurred in another place.
 MR. SHAW  continued: Sir, I am perfectly aware of that, and I throw myself entirely, but under the circumstances,
 301 Loud cheers, and cries of 302 303 "— enough for me, My bread and independency." 304 305
 MR. SHAW  said: I shall support the Motion of the right hon. Baronet to proceed with the first reading of the Bill. In the present lamentable insecurity of life, and person, and property in Ireland, I cannot refuse to an existing Government leave to proceed with a Bill which they, upon their responsibility, propose as calculated to mitigate that great evil. I confess that I am not very sanguine of the success of the measure. Nothing but an imperative necessity can justify the extra-constitutional powers the Bill confers; and if that imperative necessity exists, which I believe it does, then I agree with the hon. Baronet who has moved the Amendment (Sir William Somerville), that the Government should not have so long delayed the measure; and given reason to the public to doubt whether they were in earnest in considering it of paramount importance. In the House of Lords the Bill was delayed from the 22nd of January to the 13th of March; whereas the Whig Coercion Bill, in 1833, was passed between the 29th of January and the 22nd of February. Further, the Government should not have suffered the Bill to be mutilated as it has been in its passage through the House of Lords: in exceeding the limits of the law, they should have well considered the exigency—not asked for more than they required, and not have taken less. I also agree with my hon. Friend the Member for Limerick (Mr. S. O'Brien), that in the present weak condition of the Government, they
 300
 MR. HENRY GRATTAN  would support the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Drogheda, although he was determined to do all in his power to put down the spirit of outrage and insubordination which existed in Ireland. He did not merely say this as a Member of Parliament, but as a resident Irish gentleman, and as a protector of his own tenantry and of the Irish people. He did not think that any asperity which was manifested towards Her Majesty's Ministers, in consequence of the delay in this measure, was justifiable, as is was clear that they could not make up their minds on a Bill which, since 1746, had singularly failed when attempted to be put in force. This Bill should be delayed; for there were now laws in existence, and officers to put them in force, which had not been resorted to. These, he was satisfied, were amply sufficient, without resorting to this infamous Bill. It was the duty of the sheriff, in case of disturbance, to call out the  posse comitatus;
 MR. J. O'CONNELL —[ who on rising was met by cries of 326 327 328 A laugh. 329
 COLONEL RAWDON  would not allude to any debate whatever. He would only say that the Duke of Wellington had referred to some of the Articles of the Union, and had placed an interpretation on them which no Irish Member on this side of the House could approve of. When a Bill like the present measure, which so trenched on the liberty of the subject as this did, came before the House, he felt it to be his duty to take all the steps the forms of the House permitted to oppose its progress.
 COLONEL RAWDON  remarked, that in one portion of his address the noble Lord the Member for Lynn had somewhat departed from the modesty of his propositions, by making use of an expression which, in Parliamentary language, he would describe as an audacious one. He considered that all the Irish Members had a right to speak on this question; and he utterly disclaimed the imputation that they wished to speak for purposes of delay, or that they were not desirous of putting an end to those murders that occasionally took place in Ireland. The noble Lord was, however, a good tactician, for he had been enabled to make two speeches already on the question. He would not follow the same course, and he would advise those friends to Ireland who were anxious to speak not to expend their ammunition now, but to reserve it for the fitting time. All he wished now to state was, that he was there to give food to the Irish people, and not to inflict Coercion Bills on them. The Irish Members had been roused by a speech in the other House of Parliament. The other side had been out of order. The noble Lord the Member for Lynn had used the name of a Peer, and he was entitled to do the same. The Duke of Wellington had made a speech which he — [The SPEAKER called the hon. and gallant Member to order.] He had heard the noble Lord the Member for Lynn make use of the name of a noble Lord, and he conceived he should be in order if he also named a Peer. ["No!"] Why did those Members call "no," and omit to do the same when the noble Lord spoke? If it was allowed on
 325
 MR. COBDEN  had not exactly understood a remark which had fallen from the right hon. Baronet at an early part of the evening, as to the course which was to be pursued with regard to the Irish Bill. Did the right hon. Baronet mean that the statement, and only the statement, was to be made that evening by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department; or did he intend to state that it was his intention to press for a division upon the Motion?
 MR. COBDEN  said, he could not help then expressing his sincere regret at the course which Her Majesty's Ministers had taken, for he regarded it as likely to inflict a great calamity both on England and Ireland. Though that coercion measure was introduced as one which would be likely to contribute to the peace of Ireland, they must recollect that those who represented the feelings of the people of Ireland in that House, and who led public opinion in that country, were decidedly opposed to it. But
 330 331
 MR. M. MILNES  did not wish that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Cork should be put to any inconvenience. The mere circumstance of that hon. and learned Gentleman finding it necessary to address the House at some length, gave a peculiar character to the present Motion. But there were other hon. Members connected with Ireland who continued the debate, and who could express their views without so lengthened a preface. The House was quite ready to hear them. At the same time, as they had never been so long occupied in discussing the question of Adjournment, he thought the sooner they adjourned the better.
 MR. W. R. COLLETT  was entirely adverse to the postponement of the debate. He had most important documents in his possession, of the nature of which the House was not aware, and which made him most eager that no time should be lost in passing this measure into law. He was not in the habit of addressing the House, and never did so except when thoroughly acquainted with the subject, and able to substantiate his statements by undeniable
 364
 SIR GEORGE GREY  had risen to express his hope, that, notwithstanding the speech of the noble Lord, the House would not be led into a premature discussion as to the state of things in Ireland, and which had induced the Government to introduce this measure into the House. The time would come when the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department might state grounds which would justify the introduction of this Bill; the time might come when the House would be called upon to determine whether this Bill, framed to meet the extensive system of crime in Ireland, should pass into a law; but his hon. Friend the Member for Drogheda pressed that they should not put these questions to a decision now, but that they should proceed with a measure of the greatest interest and importance, which had occupied the attention of the House for some time. By the mode taken by the right hon. Gentleman the question was put before them, as to which of these two important Bills they would take that evening. The question was, which of these important measures—the Corn Importation Bill, or the Preservation of Life (Ireland) Bill—should have precedence. Under all the circumstances in which these Bills were before the House, he could not help expressing his decided opinion that the Bill for the importation of corn should have preference over the Irish Bill. He could assure the House he had no wish to offer any unfair impediment to the course which the Government proposed to adopt; but he would put it to them whether it was not for the convenience of the public business that the course which he recommended should be adopted. On the
 311 de die in diem. 312 sub silentio.
 SIR J. GRAHAM : I can assure the House that I shall strictly confine myself to explanation. The right hon. and learned Recorder of Dublin has complained that I took advantage of the interval of two or three days for preparing an elaborate attack against him; but, after the speech he has made, I will leave the House and country to judge of the fine judicial tone and temper he has displayed upon this occasion. But I said that I would confine myself to explanation, and there are two points to which I shall refer. The right hon. Gentleman said that I had preferred an accusation against him. [Mr. SHAW: An insinuation.] Then we have already parted with that word "accusation," and it is now reduced to insinuation; and I will observe that, if it be the pleasure of the House to refer, not only to former debates, but to listen to the explanation of the allusions in those debates, it will be my duty to offer such explanation. There are two allusions in the speech to which the right hon. and learned Gentleman refers. The first is, the possible political ambition of passing from the judicial to official station that swayed the mind and judgment of the right hon. and learned Gentleman. I admit that allusion; but that allusion was prospective; and it was an allusion to what I thought might possibly, and even probably, have been the object of the right hon. and learned Gentleman. It was an allusion made prospectively with reference to the formation of what I think I called a protection Government. The other allusion was to a matter of fact; and the right hon. and learned Gentleman, I think, said something about confidential communication, and a breach of confidence. Now, the House will remember—and the right hon. and learned Gentlemen himself has alluded to it—that in the course of last Session he stated distinctly that he never had been what I ventured to call him, my right hon. Friend; and he disclaimed the propriety of my using that expression—he said he never had been my Friend; that he had only a political and Parliamentary acquaintance with me; and he drew a distinction, which he has drawn again to-night, between me and my right hon. Friend at the head of the Government. He said, that with my right hon. Friend he was on terms of friendship, but that with me he had none;
 306 l.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said: I really had hoped, Sir, that the course I took in the commencement of this preliminary discussion, would have exculpated me from the last accusation made by the hon. Member for Limerick, that I have shown any disrespect to the orders of this House; for I stated fully and explicitly to the House, that it is only by their favour that I can be enabled to make my Motion. I dissembled nothing—I distinctly stated the difficulty—and I laid before the House my reason for making this preliminary Motion. I am aware that I shall experience great difficulty in bringing before the House the particular Motion which I am anxious to submit to its consideration with as little delay as possible, except by taking the course which I now ask the House to sanction. I by no means deny the competency of this House to refuse to give a first reading to any Bill sent down from the other House; it is competent for this House to refuse to read a first time any Bill sent down to it; but on referring to the Journals, and looking at each case, it will be found that there are very few examples in which such a course has been adopted. In the other House it is open to any Member, as a matter of pure right, to lay upon the Table of that House any Bill which such Member may think proper to introduce. No leave is required, and, as a matter of course, the Bill is read a first time; and although here our Orders are different, and it is necessary for a Member of this House to obtain leave before he can introduce a Bill, yet the ordinary course, and almost the invariable rule, when a Bill comes from the other House relating to a subject the matter of which is well known, is, to read the Bill a first time at once. With the single instance of the Coercion Bill of 1833, there is not, I believe, another
 296 297 298 299
 SIR J. GRAHAM  was bound, in accordance with the strict Orders of the House, to state that he could not, without the permission of the House, make the Motion which he was about to move. The strict rule of the House was this—that on Mondays and Fridays Orders of the Day should have precedence of notices of Motion. It was not possible, then, for him, without its permission, to make the Motion that a certain Bill—the Protection of Life (Ireland) Bill, should be read a first time. He had therefore to move—
 "That the Orders of the Day be now read, for the purpose of their being postponed until after the Motion for reading the Protection of Life (Ireland) Bill a first time, of which Notice has been given."
 SIR J. GRAHAM : Sir, in the absence of any Member of the Government more immediately connected with Ireland, it is my duty to propose to the House the first reading of a Bill which has come down from the other House of Parliament. The hon. Member for Stockport, just before the division, stated that some mysterious motive had swayed the conduct of Government in pressing this Motion upon the House. Now, Sir, I hope the House will indulge me with a patient hearing on the present occasion, while I endeavour to state the urgent reasons which in my judgment operate conclusively in demonstrating that no time ought to be lost in the unhappy condition of affairs which it will be my duty to lay before the House. The task is a painful one; but at the same time there are some consolatory reflections connected with it. I do not present myself on the present occasion to bring any sweeping or general accusation against the Irish people. The case which I am about to bring before the House is not one which affects Ireland collectively; it is a case of a local and
 334 335 336 337 338 339 
 
 In 1844. In 1845. 
 Cavan 109 257 
 Fermanagh 80 166 
 King's County 226 301 
 Longford 205 372 
 
 In 1844. In 1845. Increase. 
 Leitrim 228 922 694 
 Roscommon 264 716 452 
 Limerick 321 460 139 
 Tipperary 908 992 84 340 341 342 "—to quit the land and the neighbourhood. A
 343 "The brother of the deceased had taken a few acres of land some few years ago, from which the former tenant had been ejected. He had been (previously to this murder) served with a threatening notice to quit. As deceased sat with his brother in the evening, four men entered the house, two of them presenting a pistol at each of the brothers, and demanded why they did not obey the notice. One of them struck the deceased on the head, breaking his skull, which he did not long survive." "The attention of a resident of Borrisofarney having been attracted by a horse passing his door without a rider, he discovered, at about eighty yards distanee on the road, the body of Mr. Smith; the skull broken in two places, and the brain protruding. At the inquest held the medical examiners were of opinion that the injuries could not have been received by falling from the horse, nor did the dress of the deceased exhibit any appearance of his having been dragged along the road. The deceased, who was a resident of Dublin, had been visiting some of his tenants, and was returning to Busherstown, whence he had come that morning. It is understood that he was about dispossessing two persons of a farm, which was to be given to another." "The deceased man's father had taken land at Dogneire, from which James Sexton had been previously ejected. Deceased was returning home from that place, when he was shot in the face from behind a hedge, his assailant following up the attack by inflicting severe wounds on the back of the head with some sharp instrument." "This gentleman was shot dead by two men while riding round his own demesne, superintending his workmen. It appears that Mr. Clarke, several years ago, had purchased the estate in question, but had never, until recently, resided there. Having been induced to visit the place, and to prolong his stay, he had discovered that, in
 344 "He had served ejectments on a number of small tenants on his farm. He was fired at, at about noon, within fifty yards of his residence, had survived the shot but a few minutes. It appears that no person can be found who witnessed the attack; but there is circumstantial evidence against a man named Coshean, who has absconded. Lynch was a middleman, and his own was the life in the lease under which he held." "I have to report that on last night, the 6th instant, about the hour of half-past seven o'clock, a party of seven men, disguised, with their faces blackened, and handkerchiefs tied round them, and three of them armed with guns, and others with bludgeons, entered the houses of Owen Meany, Bridget Meany, and James Molowny, of Cragboy, in the district of Tulla, and beat the following persons very severely: — Owen Meany, James Molowny, Michael Meany, and Thomas Meany; the latter had his skull fractured, and died in two or three hours afterwards; the others received cuts and bruises on their heads
 345 "I have to report that, on the night of the 20th instant, about half-past 6 P.M., at Cally, in the parish of Killmarathy, as Mr. Alfred Waller was returning to his residence, and alone, he was waylaid in a field by four men, who severely assaulted him on the head and arms with bludgeons and stones, inflicting two severe cuts on his head, and dreadful contusions on the left arm, which fractured one of the bones below the elbow. A few (3½) acres of land Mr. Waller had at his disposal were the cause, inasmuch as his assailants, while beating him, desired him to 'give up Coona, give up Coona' (the name of the little townland which persons of the name of Keeffe pretended to have a claim to). Mr. Waller's life is not considered in any imminent danger." "Towards the close of November, 1844, the peace of the northern part of the county of Cavan, and the adjoining parts of Leitrim, had become very seriously disturbed by numerous armed and organized bodies of Whiteboys. To meet these circumstances, the magistracy applied for an increased police force, and an additional stipendiary magistrate. The required police were immediately supplied; and Mr. M'Leod, the resident magis-
 346 "As George Bell Booth, Esq., justice of the peace, was returning from divine service in his gig, with two of his children, some person unknown shot him dead. Although the above awful circumstance took place within 200 yards of the village of Crossdoney, and many persons were passing along the road from their respective places of worship, yet there was no immediate attempt made on their part to secure the assassin, who effected his escape. The police from the surrounding stations made every exertion to discover the perpetrator, but without success. Mr. Booth was an efficient and most useful magistrate, and always ready to afford assistance when necessary. From that hour to this the assassin has escaped punishment." 347 "Waters, John (county of Tipperary), had been in the employment of Henry Goring, Esq., of Riverlawn, and was a stranger at the place. As he was returning to his master's residence, with a man named Corrigan (whose services as ploughman were likely to be superseded by those of Waters), several men, armed with bludgeons, according to the statement of Corrigan, leaped off the road into the grove. Corrigan says he ran away, and looking back saw the party strike Waters to the ground, and that on returning shortly after, he found Waters speechless." "Mrs. Fanny M'Elhill, of Tyrone, was the wife of a wood-ranger, who had made himself obnoxious by prosecuting trespassers. She had proceeded from her dwelling, with her little daughter, when she was fired at from a wood by the roadside. Some of the charge entered the child's head, and it is feared her brain is injured. The mother was wounded in different parts of the body, and died in a day or two after, having previously given birth to a still-born child." 348
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  considered that the last sentence of the noble Lord's (Lord J. Russell) speech furnished sufficient materials for the vote he was prepared to give. The noble Lord said, after the declarations which had been made with respect to the outrages on life and property in Ireland, he was willing to proceed to the consideration of remedial measures; but then the question arose did Her Majesty's Ministers' measure go too far, or was this measure brought in too soon? The noble Lord the Member for Lynn had said, not that the measure went too far, or that it was brought in with too much precipitation, but that Her Majesty's Ministers had neglected their duty in not bringing forward the measure months ago. He would ask, was the evil complained of of recent date? Had there not been found for some time past in the records of crime in Ireland sufficient grounds for the introduction of a measure even of a more stringent character than the Bill now proposed before the House? The object of beginning with this measure was in order to give moral support to the means for maintaining peace and order in Ireland; and possibly, if the other Orders of the Day, perhaps referring to matters of trifling importance, were to be taken before this measure, it might be misconstrued into an indifference towards the suppression of crime and the
 323
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, the other hon. Gentlemen who have preceded me made a remark, with the justice of which I concur, and in the truth of which I entirely agree—namely, that in determining the course of this Bill, to which we attach the greatest importance, the Government are in a situation of peculiar difficulty, in consequence of their present position in the House of Commons. Sir, for whatever other expressions I may have been prepared in reference to this question, I confess I was not prepared to hear a doubt suggested with respect to our sincerity on the subject of the Corn Bill. Looking at all the circumstances which attended the introduction of that measure—looking at the facts connected with its being brought forward—looking at the loss of friends which it entailed upon me—the loss of the confidence of those by whom we were heretofore supported—I can fairly adduce these facts as an answer to the insinuation of want of sincerity on the part of the Government. There is an event in connection with that Bill which I, for one, am not prepared to give in evidence of my sincerity. But, Sir, I shall not condescend to answer such a charge—the facts answer for themselves. With respect, however, to the order of the proceedings in the present instance, what are the real facts of the case? I did certainly, in answer to the question of the noble Lord the other night,
 319 320 321 322
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that in the remark which he had made, he had by no means intended to imply that he wished only that his right hon. Friend should make the statement; but having done that, it was for the House to determine in what manner to deal with the Bill.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  hoped that the House would not think of adjourning at that early hour. It would be quite without precedent that, with such a mass of business before them as yet undisposed of, they should adjourn at half-past eleven o'clock. They had already reduced the nights for debating to four, for they did not sit on Saturdays; and Wednesdays they had, by a recent resolution, determined on devoting to Bills and propositions introduced by private Members. He ventured to promise that, if the hon. and learned Member for Cork would proceed to address the House for two hours, or for an hour and a half, he would be listened to with great attention; but he hoped that the idea of adjourning at half-past eleven o'clock would be abandoned. After the Corn Bill had been disposed of, he would consent to affording every possible facility for discussion on this Bill in Committee,
 362
 SIR R. PEEL  would not further oppose the Motion for Adjournment, provided hon. Members who had Motions on the Paper for to-morrow were willing to postpone them. He must say that he consented most reluctantly to the adjournment, though he did not wish to subject the hon. and learned Gentleman to any inconvenience. If hon. Members would not consent to waive their Motions for to-morrow, then the only alternative would be in a further postponement of the debate, which he should strenuously oppose. He should feel it his duty to take the sense of the House on the Motion of adjournment, if hon. Members did not so consent.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  rose to move that all the words after the word "being" be omitted from the Motion. He wished that the Motion of the right hon. Baronet should be negatived, and the Orders of the Day be now read, in order to be proceeded with. In doing so it was not necessary for him to trouble the House at great length. It was not his wish to embarrass Her Majesty's Government; but it was his wish to call the attention of the House to the great inconvenience that must be occasioned by postponing a measure which had now occupied a great length of time, which had absorbed much of their attention, in which were involved the hopes and the wishes of the people of England, and identified with which, he might justly and truly say, were the interests of this great Empire. Such a measure as that, for the settlement of which they were all anxious, was now before them; and the question they had to ask themselves was this, ought it to be postponed, in order that the Government might bring forward a Bill, certain to produce a long, an exciting, and an exasperating debate—to bring forward a Bill, and to
 289 290 291 pro formâ 292 pro formâ, 293
 MR. D. BROWNE  intreated the right hon. Baronet to allay irritation in Ireland by remedial, not coercive, measures. Conciliation would do more to tranquillize the country than the exercise of unconstitutional power, although it might only be temporary.
 MR. O'CONNELL  did not wish to be ungrateful to the right hon. Baronet for the efforts he had made to meet the famine in Ireland. On the contrary he acknowledged most gladly, and if he might be permitted to say so, most gratefully, the efforts of the Government of the right hon. Baronet, and the plans they had laid down to relieve the wants of the people of that part of the country. If, therefore, it were a mere question of form and ceremony, he should acquiesce at once; but this was an attempt to deprive the people of Ireland of the benefits of the Constitution. They had the burden of the Union upon them, and surely they ought to have the benefits of it. They ought to have the same laws as Eng-
 375
 MR. CARBWELL  observed, that the Memorial was, in point of words, nearly identical with the petition which the noble Lord had presented to the House. He entirely concurred in the admission of the noble Lord, that the petitioner had no claim upon the Treasury. The memorial con-
 377 378
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he hardly know in what position the matter was before the House, because his noble Friend admitted that the petitioner was wholly without a claim. He was afraid that if he even thought that Mr. Allen ought to pay the damages and costs, and recommended him, as his noble Friend wished, to do so, his influence would be of very little avail; but he did not think that Mr. Allen was at all called upon to interfere in that way. He did not think that the original remarks which had been referred to were without any effect upon the verdict, because their object was invidiously to direct public attention to the school and to the master. They began with a Latin quotation, " Ecce iterum Crispinus 379 l.
 MR. MOFFATT  moved the Second Reading of the Railway Deposits Bill. By the law as it at present stood, the subscribers to an undertaking were compelled to make a transfer of money, and money only, to the Accountant General of the Court of Chancery; and they were also compelled to do so only under the Speaker's warrant, obtained on each occasion. Great inconvenience had been experienced from the adoption of this course; and during the present year large losses had been sustain-
 382
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. Gentleman having consented to make those Amendments in the Bill when it went into Committee which he thought necessary, he had no objection to the second reading. The hon. Member had at first proposed that instead of the money or funds being paid to the Accountant General, they should be paid into the Bank of England. The consequence would be, that if any dispute should arise between the parties as to their interest, or as to any lien, it would be necessary to institute a Chancery suit to determine the rights; and whether he considered the interests of the parties concerned, or of the innocent Bank of England, he thought it would be unjust to subject that body to the expense and burden of these Chancery suits. As the Bill would be amended, the money would be paid to the Accountant General as before, and in cases where the House should sanction the transfer of stock or Exchequer Bills, the Accountant General would hold for the parties.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  asked whether the House or the Speaker was to provide for accepting stock or Exchequer Bills instead of money, and what was to be done if the House was not sitting?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that the parties would deposit with the Clerk of the Private Bill-office the particulars of the mode in which they proposed to make the deposit, and his signature would be the authority for the Accountant General to accept it.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Asthehon. Member for Limerick has referred to me upon a point which I think has often been represented not quite fairly, in respect to my conduct with regard to the Report of the Poor Law Commission for Ireland, I wish to observe, that the Commissioners recommended the relief and support, within the walls of public institutions, of lunatics, cripples, and sick poor; and they also recommended provision for emigration, and for the relief of the aged and infirm, of orphans and deserted children, vagrants, widows with young children, the families
 407 "Mr. Senior stated, with respect to the proposal for giving relief to indigent persons at their own homes, partly by private contributions and partly by a national rate, would introduce all the abuses of the old English Poor Law, and many others in addition. Mr. Lewis had similar objections, and showed that it would be a great injury to the property of Ireland, while the relief would not be confined to the indigent poor alone." 408 409
 The O'CONOR DON  concurred in much that had fallen from the hon. Member for Limerick; but, knowing that in every part of Ireland there was the greatest objection even to the comparatively small amount of rates now imposed for the relief of the poor, he felt convinced they would feel the strongest objection to the additional and enormous rate which it was proposed by this Bill to impose upon them for that purpose. The arguments which had been adduced against the Bill were quite sufficient to induce him not to support it; but if the hon. Member for Limerick would bring forward a Bill in accordance with his own views, instead of supporting a Bill from all the details of which he dissented, he for one should be happy to discuss, and, if possible, to give his support to it.
 MR. P. BUTLER , from the intimate knowledge he had of Ireland, thought that outdoor relief was much more applicable to that country than to England. The poor were generally supported by the poor in that country, but there were also benevo-
 410
 LORD C. HAMILTON  was adverse to going into Committee, because there was so much more in the Bill that he disapproved than the contrary, and he should therefore vote against the second reading.
 MR. FREWEN  meant to vote against the second reading because there were so many clauses in the Bill of which he disapproved. In his opinion, the present system of Poor Law in Ireland was such, that the only thing that could be done with it was to repeal the existing Statute, and bring in a new measure. He was decidedly in favour of outdoor relief, and had long been so. The present system of poor relief in Ireland did very little good, as the people would not go into the workhouses.
 MR. MUNTZ  happened to know something of the case, because he was subpoenaed at the trial. This was not a case of merely copying a report. If Mr. Wood had done that, he would have a different case, and the verdict might be considered hard upon him. But he commented upon the report in every way, and accompanied it with remarks which were most unjust, unsound, and untrue. That made the greatest difference in the case.
 MR. H. GRATTAN  declared his inten-
 374
 MR. P. SCROPE , in moving the second reading of this Bill, would shortly state his reasons for introducing it, which he had not before an opportunity of doing, owing to the facilities he had given for continuing the Corn Law debates. And, first, he must apologize to the House for taking upon himself a task which exceeded the limits of his poor abilities, and a subject of such great importance. That apology would be the statement which, without any egotism, he might perhaps make, that this was not the first time he had given his attention to matters of this kind. For the last twenty years he had taken a great interest in the condition of the poor in Ireland, and had urged upon the House the necessity and importance of making provision for the poor in Ireland on the model of that which had been in operation for two centuries and a half with the best results in England. He might mention that, on the second reading of the Coercion Bill in 1834, he felt so strongly as to the necessity and justice of introducing measures for the relief of the destitute poor who were driven by desperation to the commission of crime in Ireland, that he then moved the following Resolution:—
 "That, in order to secure life and property in Ireland, to remove all pretext for criminal outrages, and to give effect to whatever measure of severity may be adopted for their suppression, it is expedient that the population of that island he assured of the means of supporting life by peaceful and honest industry; and this House will turn
 384 "Upon the best consideration which we have been able to give to the whole subject, we think that a legal provision should be made and rates levied as hereinafter mentioned, for the relief and support of incurable as well as curable lunatics, of idiots, epileptic persons, cripples, deaf and dumb, and blind poor, and all who labour under permanent bodily infirmities—such relief and support to be afforded within the walls of public institutions; also for the relief of the sick poor in hospitals, infirmaries, and convalescent establishments, or by extern attendance and a supply of food as well as medicine, where the persons to be relieved are not in a state to be removed from home; also for the purpose of emigration, for the support of penitentiaries in which vagrants may be sent, and for the maintenance of deserted children; also towards the relief of aged and infirm persons, of orphans, of helpless widows with young children, of the families of sick persons, and of casual destitution." 385 386 387 388 How is Ireland to be Governed? "Does the law, then, protect the Irish peasant? Not from starvation! It does not protect him from being thrust out from his home and little holding into absolute destitution, to perish on the highways of famine, or to waste away in those abodes of filth, misery, and disease, in the suburbs of the towns, which Dr. Doyle so faithfully describes as the ordinary refuge and dying-place of the ejected cottier and his family. It does not protect him from being visited by this fate at the command of an absentee landlord, who may desire to clear his property of some of the human incumbrances whom God has brought into being upon it. The law affords the Irish peasant no protection from so horrible a fate. Hundreds are at present exposed to it. Millions know that they are liable to it. Can the law justly require their allegiance? Can we expect them willingly to pay it? No, the peasantry of Ireland feel that the law places their lives at the mercy of the few, whom it invests with sovereign power over the land of their native country—with power to sweep them at will off its surface." 389 390 391 "Undoubtedly it was the landlord's right to do so if he pleased, and if he abstained he conferred a favour, and was doing an act of kindness. If, on the other hand, he chose to stand on his right, the tenants must be taught by the strong arm of the law that they had no power to oppose or resist. Such was the law of the land, and property would be valueless, and capital would no longer be invested in the cultivation of land, if it were not acknowledged that it was the landlord's undoubt-
 392 "This happened in consequence of the desire on the part of the landlord to have his land better cultivated, by persons who could bring to that cultivation the advantage of capital and skill. And it certainly would be a great hardship to the landlord in Ireland if he had not the free and entire power, as by law he unquestionably had, to dismiss the small holders," &. "For," said he, "there is no man so indigent or wretched, but he may demand a supply sufficient for all the necessities of life from the more opulent part of the community." 393 394 395 d. d. s. s. 396 "If a tenant is removed, he is looked upon as an injured man, and the decree goes forth for vengeance on the landlord or agent, and upon the man who succeeds to the farm. And at times a large proportion of the neighbourhood look with indifference (sympathy rather, or approval) upon the most atrocious acts of violence, and by screening the criminal abet and encourage the crime. Murders are perpetrated at noon day on the public highway; and whilst the assassin coolly retires, the people look on, and evince no horror at the bloody deed. The whole nature of Christian men appears in such cases to be changed, and the one absorbing feeling as to the possession of land stifles all others, and extinguishes the plainest principles of humanity."
 MR. P. SCROPE : I wish to be allowed be explain. The right hon. Baronet has totally misrepresented what I said. He is arguing on the assumption that I am desirous of seeing such a right as he has alluded to sanctioned by law; whereas all I urged was, that the tenant right ought to be legalized, or the tenant ought to have some means of obtaining compensation for his improvements.
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, he would not give the House the trouble of dividing. His object had been to some extent answered; for the principle of outdoor relief had made some way.
 MR. WAKLEY  had hoped to find a great number of Irish Members in the House on such an occasion, and to have heard it distinctly stated why it was that the poor of Ireland were to receive different treatment from the poor of England. The right hon. the Home Secretary had decided against giving outdoor relief in Ireland. That was the declaration of an influential Minister of the Crown; and the noble Lord who expected soon to be Minister, was equally opposed to outdoor relief: but here was a county Member for Ireland, well acquainted with the affairs of that country, who mixed with the Irish people, who passed a large portion of his time in Ireland, who was as decisively in favour of the Bill before the House. The hon. Gentleman appeared, at first, to speak doubtingly as to outdoor relief; but at least he gave it as his opinion that it should be established in the sister kingdom. Now, when they had such different courses pursued in legislation, they ought to endeavour to understand from influential persons, who took an interest in this question, what were the precise circumstances that led to the distinction which prevailed in the two countries. They found that in this country Irishmen preferred being sent to an English gaol rather than being sent back to their own country. He had been told this by Irish people themselves, who asserted that their condition would be preferable in a gaol in England, to being sent home to Ireland. Why was it that the same law was not meted to the Irish as to the English poor? They had heard it said, that if it were so, it would amount to a confiscation of property. Now, what was passing in Ireland at that moment? Was there not danger already both to life and property in that country? It seemed to be imagined that by staving off this thing, the evil would be lessened; but he believed the evils of Ire-
 411 412
 MR. CHRISTIE  thought that the noble Lord was fully justified in bringing this matter before the House. The state of the law was imperfect which made a newspaper responsible for publishing a copy of an official document, published under official sanction, and sent into circulation on the authority of Government. The Motion of the noble Lord would have the effect of directing public attention to the subject, and would help to clear the way for an amendment of the law.
 MR. W. R. COLLETT  was glad to find the Chancellor of the Exchequer had seen that an amendment of the law was necessary. He did not understand what the alterations to be made in the Bill were; he believed the Bill as it stood to be a good Bill, and till he saw the proposed amendments he could give no opinion upon them. A more concise Bill, or one better adapted to its purpose, had never been introduced into the House. He thought the absolute loss to the parties who had invested and had then sold out and reinvested, had been much underrated by the hon. Gentleman; he believed that there had been a loss of several hundred thousand pounds without any benefit. The old machinery had been awkward and very ill-adapted to its purpose; and in the present Bill the country and the railway proprietors would find a great boon.
 MR. EWART  said, that the line was distinct between the legislative functions of that House and the exercise of any legal authority. The less the House attempted to involve itself with the proceedings of the courts of law the better. He thought that a case had been made out for a change in the law, but that none had been made out for the interference of the
 381
 MR. W. S. O'BRIEN  said, that, speaking not merely in his capacity of an Irish representative, but as an Irish landlord, he felt extremely obliged to his hon. Friend for bringing forward his Motion. When measures for the coercion of the Irish people were being brought forward and pressed on in the House, he thought that they should be accompanied by some measures the tendency of which would be for the good of the people. In replying to his hon. Friend, the right hon. Baronet had said that the tenant-right of Ulster was not obtained or supported by a system of violence. But let the right hon. Gentleman look to the opinion of one of the Government Commissioners, and he would find that the Commissioners had stated that an attempt to interfere with or abolish the tenant-right would convert the county of Down into the condition of the county of Tipperary. It was indisputable that the tenant-right of Ulster existed, and to a certain extent was sustained, not by the law, but by fear; and the Government could, without violating any existing law, lay the foundation of such a right in those dis-
 404 s. d. s. d. s. s. 405 406
 MR. W. SMITH O'BRIEN  wished to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) to the fact that, on the division upon the Coercion Bill, the total number of Irish Members who supported that measure was only ten, whilst no lesss that thirty-four voted against it. Out of the whole number of Irish Members present at the discussion on Monday night, it was evident that more than three-fourths thought it was not necessary to proceed with the Bill; and, considering the urgency of other measures before the House, it would be a great injustice to the people of Ireland to force the Bill upon them at present.
 SIR J. GRAHAM , in moving that the Order of the Day for the adjourned debate on the first reading of the Irish Bill be postponed till to-morrow, said he would avail himself of the opportunity to explain an inaccuracy in his statement on Monday evening. The inaccuracy related to the case of Mr. Wilson, a magistrate of the county of Clare, who, without provocation, had been compelled to leave home, and the improvement of his estate, in consequence of the threatening notices he had received. The House would remember that he (Sir J. Graham) stated, that previously to Mr. Wilson leaving his home, he attended a chapel, and that an address was made to the congregation from the altar by the parish priest. He had stated that this circumstance occurred before the first threatening notice was sent. That was not so—the address from the altar took place after the first threatening notice, towards the end of last September; and three other threatening notices following, Mr. Wilson left his home towards the beginning of the present year. He had stated also, that Mr. Wilson was aware of a committee having sat in judgment upon him, and that he knew the parties who composed that body. That statement was erroneous. Mr. Wilson had not said he knew them. If he had known them, it would have been his duty as a magistrate to have caused them to be arrested. With this single exception, the information which he (Sir J. Graham) had laid before the House was strictly correct. But there being an inaccuracy in this particular he had felt it his duty to inform the House of it.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, as all the documents he read on Monday night were official, and as every statement had been made upon written authority, with the single exception of the case of Mr. Wilson, he had no objection to lay upon the Table officially all the Reports he had used on that occasion.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  wished to explain that he had not thought it necessary to discuss, on this occasion, all the points alluded to. He had only said that this Bill proposed four great alterations:—1. To give an absolute right of relief to the able-bodied. 2. To deprive the guardians of all discretion in giving it, requiring them to give it against their judgment. 3. To substitute unions for electoral divisions in giving relief, and levying rates; and, 4. To abolish mendicancy absolutely, and make it criminal in Ireland.
 SIR J. GRAHAM : I listened attentively to the hon. Gentleman, and while he was speaking, I asked the Attorney General whether he could comprehend what the tendency of the hon. Gentleman's argument was? "It surely points," I added, "to give a perpetual right, where a contingent and limited right now exists." That was the impression produced on my mind, and I am afraid, unless I had commented on the point, that this is the impression which would have gone forth. I can only repeat that I think it my duty to express in the strongest possible terms my dissent from any such proposition, whether made directly or indirectly. I will now apply myself to the question more immediately included in the Bill of the hon. Gentleman. Now, I object to the present moment, as being a period most inopportune for the passing of such a Bill as that introduced by the hon. Member. The distress in Ireland is great, and the difficulties of the present moment are urgent. Measures have been taken, partly with the concurrence of Parliament, and partly on
 401 ad interim. 402 403
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that in consequence of the immense accumulation of other public business to which his attention was directed, he had not given that attention to the subject to which the hon. Gentleman referred, which it required. With regard to the particular case before the House, he must observe, in reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member for the University of Oxford, that this was not so much a question of publishing a public document as one respecting the documents which accompanied it. The jury did not question the right to publish a public document; but they seemed to deny the justice of the comments made; and in the present case they drew the distinction, because in the case of Mr. Parker they awarded only 40 s. l.,
 SIR J. GRAHAM : I am very sorry that a subject of such great importance should be discussed in so thin a House; but after the speech of the hon. Member who
 397 398 399 400
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that his noble Friend brought forward this case in order to call the attention of the House and the Government to the great principle involved in it. The question was, whether those who conducted the newspapers of England could with safety, or without the risk of actual ruin, republish those documents laid in the shape of great blue books, or small papers, on the Table of the House—whether they could legally publish those documents which were published under the authority of that House. In the present instance he admitted that the gravamen did not consist in publishing the document, but in the heading prefixed to it, although Mr. Parker, who had the direct sanction of the House, and published the document, only had a verdict against him amounting to 40 s.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he might be erroneous in his impressions with regard to the danger of scarcity in Ireland; but he assured the House that he entertained serious apprehensions of danger from that cause. He had given the greatest proofs any man could give of the sincerity of his convictions, and of his willingness to make any sacrifice that a public man could make in order that the people of Ireland might not be exposed to greater evils than were inseparable from a state of scarcity. Having given those proofs, he thought he might ask hon. Members from Ireland to permit the Bill to be read the first time, reserving to themselves the opportunity to oppose its further progress—that the House might be permitted to go on at the earliest period with the discussion of those measures which were intended for the relief of the poor from scarcity.
 SIR R. PEEL  was very unwilling to give rise to an irregular discussion; but he must say there was a most material difference between the hon. Member's impression and his own as to the particular Motion upon which the House divided on Monday night. He thought the House had not gone into a discussion upon the merits of the Bill; and he was sure the remarks
 373
 VISCOUNT INGESTRE , in resuming the adjourned debate on the subject of the action brought against the editor of a Wolverhampton paper for the republication of a report of the rev. Mr. Allen, an inspector of schools under the Education Commissioners, published and circulated by order of Parliament, said he wished to obtain a reply from some Member of the Government as to their intentions with respect to this case, which not only was one of great individual hardship, but in which an important public principle was involved. It was alleged that the school in question had suffered great diminution of its funds, and had been kept closed for six years in consequence of the misconduct of the master, part of which misconduct, consisted in his ill treatment of two boys, for which he was subjected to examination by a magistrate, one of the boys having been confined to his bed under surgical advice for a fortnight. The master of the school, Mr. Coppenthwaite Smith, was since dead; but an action had been brought against Mr. Parker, the Government printer of the Report of
 376 s. l., "That there be laid before this House, a Copy of the Memorial presented to the Treasury by Mr. Thomas Wood, proprietor of the Wolverhampton Chronicle, in relation to the Lichfield Free School."
 VISCOUNT INGESTRE  observed, that the additional remarks to which the hon. Gentleman alluded, merely had reference to the corporation of Lichfield, who had put the master in the school, and had nothing to do with the subject of the Report. The hardship of which he complained was, that Mr. Wood could have done much better if the Treasury had left him altogether to his own defence, instead of abandoning him at the last moment, when it was not possible for him to put his case in a proper state for the decision of the jury.
 VISCOUNT SANDON  said, it was impossible that the state of things connected with the school of Lichfield, where Dr. Johnson was brought up, should not attract and excite the feelings of the nation; and it was not surprising that the editor of a newspaper in the neighbourhood should have quoted a report relating to the lamentable state of that school. He thought that some understanding should be come to—whether parties had or had not the right to consider documents published under the authority of Parliament such as might be used by them for the purpose of criticism and statement. If they had not that right, of what use were the documents? They were not got up for private use, but that the public attention might be directed to them. He considered that this gentleman was not actuated by any personal malice, but that, being strongly excited at the lamentable state of things in his own neighbourhood, he reprinted an authentic document, accompanying it with some expressions arising from the facts as he viewed them.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : As the right hon. Baronet has brought this question so fully before you, it is not necessary for me to trouble the House with many observations; but I wish to take this opportunity of expressing my cordial participation in the vote of thanks which the right hon. Baronet has moved. The terms in which he moved that vote of thanks, the speech he made in moving it, every topic to which he alluded, seem to me to leave nothing to be supplied. I never heard a question of a vote of thanks sustained with more feeling or more ability. Perhaps it may be permitted to me, who am not the political or private friend of Sir Henry Hardinge, to say there is no person who is united to him either by political connection or private friendship who can feel more warmly the honour he has acquired in the recent transactions than I feel, who have been opposed to him in politics, but who have always felt for his character the highest respect. Let me say further, with respect to Sir Hugh Gough, that I am glad to see that a native of Ireland has added another to those many glories which Irishmen have contributed to the reputation and fame of England. I have great satisfaction in thinking that the glory which the British army has acquired under the Governor General and Commander-in-Chief has been altogether untarnished. If the state of the Punjaub had rendered the invasion necessary, we might be liable to the charge of ambition—if we had even assembled a large army, apparently menacing that territory, then it might be said that it was imperative on them to seek protection for their country by crossing the Sutlej; but from the manner in which Sir Henry Hardinge has concluded the great affairs committed to him, we can say that no preparation was made that could justify the smallest aggression—and we can say, likewise, that if the utmost preparation had been made—if the army had been collected with a view to dispose of the Punjaub according to the dictates of our ambition, even in that case there could not have been more happy and brilliant success than that which has followed this wanton and unprovoked invasion upon the part of the Sikhs. With these few words I beg to express my cordial concurrence in the Resolution.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he was not disposed to offer any opposition to the introduction of the Bill; but there might be great danger in removing the safeguards established by the Act. In assenting to its introduction, it must be understood that he did not pledge himself to support it in a future stage.
 MR. DUNCAN  seconded the Motion. He said that nothing would satisfy the working classes of Dundee but a thorough and complete investigation into the whole case. When that investigation was gone into, the House would find that the Messrs. Baxter, instead of being oppressive to their working people, were careful, none more so, of their health and comfort. He was a justice, and had acted in many instances with the gentleman who tried this case, and a more upright and able justice (not being a legal man) did not exist. He was also acquainted with the Messrs. Baxter, had gone through all their works, and could testify to the care they took of the comfort of their working people, and to the excellent motives which influenced all their acts. The hon. Member for Finsbury had alluded to the petition of the inhabitants of Dundee; and he had felt it to be his duty to call the attention of the provost of that town to the petition; and the answer he received from that gentleman was to the
 473 474
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, that on the 8th of last November he received a statement, which led him to infer that the persons in question had been seized possibly without a warrant, and brought before a person possibly not a magistrate; and he had considered it his duty to examine whether an offence had been committed which would call for a criminal prosecution at his instance. He waited upon the sheriff of the county, and requested him to investigate the matter. Investigations by the public prosecutor before trial were entirely  ex parte; 475 476
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN , happening to be a magistrate in the district, and acquainted with many of the parties, hoped he might be permitted to say a word or two on the subject. He regretted to hear what had fallen from the learned Lord, as he was most anxious that every circumstance connected with the matter should be most minutely investigated, being certain that it would have been found there was much less foundation for these petitions than the hon. Member for Finsbury seemed to imagine. He had received a letter from the Messrs. Baxter, stating how much they felt hurt at the charges which had been preferred against them, and narrating a variety of facts to show the great attention which they were accustomed to pay to the education and general comfort of their work people. The noble Lord read the letter. He was instructed to give the most complete contradiction to the allegation that the Messrs. Baxter, or any of their servants, attempted to interfere with the course of justice in this case, and that, instead of showing any harsh feeling towards the girls, they had done everything in their power to soften the rigours of their position, both before and after trial. He must say, judging from the terms in which the petitions were drawn up, that they appeared to him to have been written by some party who had a personal animosity to the Messrs. Baxter. He trusted his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury would inquire into the character of those gentlemen, and if, after doing so, he found that they were capable of acting as he had represented, he should be both surprised and astonished.
 MR. SMITH O'BRIEN , pursuant to notice, rose to move for an Address to the Crown for—
 "A Return of the total amount of public money (whether derived from local funds or from funds voted by Parliament) which has been paid for services as a Crown witness, or for other services, to a man named Robert Reily, alias George Reily, alias Robert Alexander, alias George Rowan, alias Hugh O'Neill, who was sentenced to transportation, as a vagrant, at the late Spring Assizes for the county of Tyrone; specifying the service for which such money has been paid; the department and the public officer by whom such payments have
 481
 MR. O'CONNELL : It is. If a man taken up as a vagrant cannot give 10 l.
 MR. O'CONNELL : I shall state only enough to make my Motion distinctly intelligible, and to show that the documents I ask for ought to be produced. A letter appeared lately in the newspapers exceedingly well written, signed "P. D. Ryan," and considered so important that it was referred to the other night in the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department. This gentleman signs himself "your faithful friend." Now, I have made some inquiries as to this "friend" of mine, and I find there is nothing about him that would induce me to claim the honour of his acquaintance. He has stated that his house was attacked: and he took special care to announce that this outrage was committed during "family prayers." Now, I am informed,
 483 "A Copy of any Report sent to Government by a stipendary, or other magistrate, or by any police authority, of any attack made, or alleged, on the house of Mr. P. B. Ryan, or on himself, in the year 1845:—Also of any attack made, or alleged to have been made, on the house of the said Mr. P. Ryan in the Month of March 1846:—Return of the Discharge of the said Mr. P. B. Ryan by the Insolvent Court, in the county of Tipperary, and a copy of the schedule filed by him on that occasion."
 MR. O'CONNELL : A man's insolvency may certainly be a misfortune; but there are cases in which it may not. It is not because this gentleman was a poor man that I ask for his schedule, but because I had the most distinct evidence from the person who suffered from his insolvency that he did not behave quite fairly on that occasion. The hon. Member for Tipperary
 484
 MR. SMITH O'BRIEN  observed, in reply, that it was not with any view to give sanction to outrages that he had made the present Motion. He had no desire to
 489
 MR. SMITH O'BRIEN : After witnessing the consumption of three hours devoted to an examination of the case of six factory girls in Scotland, I hope I shall not be considered as trespassing too far on the attention of the House when I ask about twenty minutes or half an hour of time, whilst I bring under your notice what I consider to be a case of great oppression. The complaint to which I refer regards the expulsion of sixty-one families, in all 270 persons, from the homes of themselves and their fathers. An ejectment under circumstances of a painful nature, a short time back, attracted general attention as described in a Roscommon paper. This statement caught the eye of a most respectable friend of mine, the proprietor of the  Dublin Freeman's Journal Freeman's Journal, "At an early hour on the morning of Friday, the 13th instant, the sheriff, accompanied by a large force of the 49th regiment, commanded by Captain Brown, and also by a heavy body of police under the command of Mr. Cummings, proceeded to the place marked out for desolation; the people were then according to the process of law (I could not procure a copy of the  habere 486 "A boy there about nine or ten years of age, told us that one of the bailiffs told his mammy not to take in any of the people who were turned out, but his mammy let in an old woman after that. I would not have placed much relianee on this corroboration, except for what you will learn some further on. It is to be hoped, for the sake of humanity and of womanhood, that Mrs. Gerrard is ignorant of that order. I expressed a wish to be direeted where I could meet some of the poor people, when the man said, 'Oh, here is one of them coming down the hill.' This person who soon joined us was old, and as he raised his hat to salute me, his fine white hair floated on the breeze. He was a fine athletic handsome old man, with a mournful countenance, and as he addressed me in the beautiful and simple salutation of the country, with 'God save you, sir!' (he spoke English very well) I felt a reverence for the old, ill-treated, and unhappy man. "Are you one of the people who were recently turned out? I inquired.—Indeed, I am, Sir, said he, with a heavy sigh. "How old are you, Sir?—Nearly eighty. "How long did you reside in the village of Ballinglass?—Over sixty-eight years, Sir; and he burst into tears. "How many in family have you?—Three, together with myself; but I had a great deal more than that. Some of them are dead and gone, and well for them they didn't live to see this desolate day: others of them are married, and some more of them are gone to America. "How much land had you?—Why, I can't rightly tell, as there are no regular farms, but there was over 400 acres belonging to the village. "Did you owe any rent?—I did, Sir. "Were you able to pay it?—I was, Sir, and willing, too, but she wouldn't take it for the last five half years. "Why so?—Why, because, Sir, she wanted to throw down the houses to make bullock pastures. "Did you ever offer the rent to the lady?—I did, Sir, more than twenty times, and I offered it to her agent also, but they would not take it. We went to the hall-door (meaning the hall-door of the lodge already mentioned) often with the rent, but they would not take it from us. Every man in the village but one offered the rent over and over, but they wouldn't take it; and we offered to pay that man's rent, but they wouldn't take that either. "Is it true that the remainder of the walls were
 487 "Did the women sleep in the ditches?—They did, Sir, and I saw one of the women with a child at her breast hunted by the bailiffs from three places the night after; they threw down the houses when we were under the walls, and they came to put out the fires, and they put out the fires in the road ditches on us too." "It appears that the 'one man' so often before mentioned who refused to pay the rent, had some of his land let to under-tenants. He went away leaving some rent due; the people offered the rent which they used to pay this man to the agent of Mrs. Gerrard, and demanded receipts, but he would not give any receipt except one 'on account' of rent due. The people owed no rent, and therefore they refused to take receipts on account." "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, to inform Her Majesty that the attention of this House has been directed to a case of ejectment of tenantry which has recently taken place at a village named Ballinglass, in the county of Galway, in which it is stated that not less than sixty-one families, comprising 270 individuals, have, in one day, been expelled from their habitations, under circumstances the most cruel and heartrending, and to pray Her Majesty, that She
 488
 LORD HOTHAM  said, that as a very old friend of the gallant officer (Sir H. Smith), whose conduct they were now considering, he hoped he should be pardoned for availing himself of the opportunity of expressing his entire and cordial concurrence in the sentiments so ably, eloquently, and justly expressed by his right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Treasury. He thought it impossible for any one to read the despatch of Sir H. Smith without coming to the conclusion that these proceedings were conducted by him with the most consummate ability. It was also, as his right hon. Friend had said, well worthy of remark, that Sir H. Smith had detailed all the circumstances attending the battle of Aliwal, with a degree of perspicuity which rendered them so intelligible to every Member of the House, that even those the least acquainted with military operations were able to see at once not only the precise object which he was ordered to effect, and the difficulties he had to contend with, but also the manner in which, after a severe struggle, he was able to overcome those difficulties, and add fresh lustre to the British arms. His right hon. Friend had stated that perhaps the success of Sir H. Smith might, in no small degree, be attributed to the opportunity he had had of serving under the Duke of Wellington. He was sure that, if they had Sir H. Smith amongst them, he would be the first to admit that his success was mainly attributable to the advantage he had of learning the art of war, for five successive years, in the Peninsula, under that illustrious man whom they had the satisfaction still to see at the head of the British army. Sir H. Smith was attached to a portion of the Peninsular army not less remarkable for its discipline than for its intelligence, and general knowledge of its duty; a division always in the front when they were advancing towards the enemy, always in the rear when necessity compelled a retrograde movement, and always in the
 460
 MR. ESCOTT : The hon. Gentleman alludes in his Motion to persons transported for vagrancy. Is it a fact that vagrancy is ever so punished in Ireland?
 MR. C. RUSSELL  said, the House would remember that when a vote of thanks to the army in India was before recorded by the House, that a petition was presented by the hon. Member for Durham from the town which he (Mr. Russell) had the honour to represent, the town of Reading, and that a very just rebuke was thrown upon that petition by the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government. He had since received a request from the inhabitants of the town of Reading, conveyed to him through the mayor and magistrates of that town, that he should disclaim on their part that petition; and that he would would express their deep regret—he might add their shame—that such a petition should have been supposed to have proceeded from that town. They had carefully examined that petition, and found attached to it the names of many women and school children, and many persons who were hardly able to write; and, besides that, there were several signatures which were actual forgeries, for some gentlemen whose names were attached to it had given an indignant denial to the statement that they sanctioned that petition. He had been requested to avail himself of that debate to say that there was no town in Her Majesty's dominions which more heartily and more loyally rejoiced in the triumphs of Her Majesty's armies, or was more cordially desirous to concur in the tribute of praise and admiration of the gallantry by which those triumphs had been obtained. It would be presumptuous on his part to attempt to swell the high and just panegyric that had been pronounced upon those deeds by the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government; but having had the honour to wear the uniform of the Bengal army during many of the best years of his existence, it would not seem unreasonable that he should have been specifically requested by a large number of persons to offer their homage and admiration to the troops of Her Majesty's army, and to the troops of that service in which at one period he might say he had the honour to serve.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, if the Messrs.
 477 478
 MR. HENRY GRATTAN  remarked, that there were many instances of the police attempting to entrap persons into situations in which they might be charged with crime; and instanced the case of a policeman named Callan hiding arms, and accusing innocent parties of concealing them. There were other cases of a similar nature, in one of which a policeman was set down as being in England, when, in fact, he was secretly employed in the west of Ireland; and another in which a policeman was detected slipping Ribbon documents into the pocket of a countryman, with the view of accusing him of belonging to illegal associations. He knew persons who were cautioned that everything that occurred in their public houses was reported to Government.
 DR. BOWRING  said, that Messrs. Baxter showed the anxiety natural to honourable and high minded men for an investigation into their conduct to their workpeople after such a complaint as this. He had known them long, and could bear testimony to their high character and position, and their great integrity. He joined in the wish for an investigation: whenever the working classes came to the House and said they had been wronged, the House was bound to lend a willing ear.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, it was not his intention to have obtruded himself upon the attention of the House; but after the speech of the hon. Member for Reading it appeared to him that it would partake of pusillanimity on his part, with the sentiments he held in regard to war, if he did not stand up in that House and endeavour to vindicate principles which he was never, ashamed to acknowledge. He knew that
 458 459
 MR. HUME , before this vote passed, which he hoped would be by the unanimous voice of the House, wished to make one or two observations. He was sorry that the question of the policy of war should have been introduced by his hon. Friend, as this was by no means the proper occasion for introducing it. The right hon. Baronet stated, and truly stated, that in achieving such glory he could not make an exception of the native troops, or distinguish them from any others engaged. It appeared that two-thirds of the troops engaged in these battles were natives; and he questioned whether the House knew the extent or the value of the services of the native troops. He had himself had opportunities of noticing the conduct of native troops, when pay was nine months in arrear, while engaged in war, and yet the whole of these troops continued to act throughout that war with the greatest fidelity. He did
 461
 MR. HUME  said, the right hon. Baronet admitted the difficulty of the measure consisted principally of the impossibility to reconcile the interests of the Church with the details of this measure: this was a Bill that ought to have Government support, and be introduced by Government; for what was the use of having a Government if it refused to introduce measures that the public advantage imperatively required?
 MR. HUME  expected a better explanation than the Government had given. Charges were made, names given, and parties pointed out; and not a Member of the Government was able to say whether
 482
 MR. HUME  said, that as far as regarded these girls, the case was very simple. They allowed themselves that they had violated their engagements; and the question, therefore, was, whether justice had been done to them in the trial which had taken place. He confessed that he had read their petition with very great pain. It appeared to him that there had been some hole and corner work in the matter, and that justice had not been done to them. The Lord Advocate had stated very fairly that, in the prosecution of his duty, he had made an inquiry into the matter. That inquiry, however, was secret; and it was important that Judges should be above suspicion. It was because these girls were poor, and without friends, that the House should be careful to institute an inquiry. The Lord Advocate was satisfied; but would the people, would justice be satisfied without a public investigation? He submitted, therefore, that there ought to be an inquiry before a Committee of the House. If the question came to a vote, he should divide with those who called for an inquiry in public.
 MR. MAHER  begged to say a few words on this matter. The gentleman in question was the only bad tenant he had in his life. He thought it important that the schedule should be produced to remove the impression which the letter of this gentleman had produced. It was well written, certainly. He begged, however, to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to the facts which he knew. After becoming insolvent, this gentleman over-held his land, and his agent obtained an order for the payment of rent from the assignees for the surrender of the land. The assignee was a person rejoicing in the name of Rody Fogarty, and who, he supposed, was this gentleman's brother-in-law. His agent served notice on this Rody Fogarty; but when about to obtain an attachment against the brother-in-law of the gentleman, it turned out that the assignee, Rody Fogarty, was a labourer in this gentleman's employment. He thought that fact quite enough to show what credit should be attached to this person's statements as to crime in Ireland. An appeal having been made to him an account of this man's large family, he allowed him to remain on the land. The former outrage, which Mr.
 485
 Mr. T. DUNCOMBE  replied. What had occurred in Dundee would never be allowed in an English manufacturing town. Were the Committee granted, he should be in a condition to prove the most, if not all, the allegations of the petitioners.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  then moved for leave to bring in—
 "A Bill to amend an Act passed in the 39th year of the reign of George III., c. 79, relating to Corresponding Societies and the licensing of places for the purposes of Lecture and Reading." l. 469 qui tam
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  then rose to call the attention of the House to two petitions he had presented some time ago from William Scott, chairman of a public meeting of the inhabitants of Dundee, and from six factory girls in that town, complaining of the illegal treatment and imprisonment of those girls. The persons on whose behalf he (Mr. T. Duncombe) addressed the House, were six unfortunate and unprotected factory girls of Dundee, between 14 and 20 years; one being 20, one 18, two 19, one 17, and the youngest between 14 and 15; and the parties of whom they complained were Messrs. Baxters, who were wealthy and influential bankers, merchants, flax-spinners and shipowners in that town. He might be told that those gentlemen were liberal men — that they were free traders, and that a short time ago they subscribed 600 l. d. s. d. s. d. 471 472 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the Allegation of the Petition of the Chairman of the Meeting of the Inhabitants of Dundee, complaining of the illegal Trial and Imprisonment of Jane Bennett and other Factory Girls in Octobor last."
 MR. MACKINNON  said, that after these observations of his right hon. Friend, he should proceed with the Motion of which he had given notice. He felt all the difficulty of bringing forward a question of such delicacy and such great magnitude; but he had letters from nearly every large town in the kingdom urging him to press it, and in some cases twitting him as for neglect of his duty in relation to it. He believed if it were adopted, that it would be most conducive to the health of these towns, and most beneficial to their inhabitants; while he was satisfied that it would not only not injure the clergy of the Church of England, but would do them a considerable service. He said this because he was a stanch supporter of that Church, and because he was satisfied that much of the opposition offered to the measure was founded on the erroneous impression that it would injure the clergy. He could state, for his own part, that the superior clergy were most anxious for it, and that the opposition which existed
 468 "That the practice of interments within the precincts of the metropolis and large towns is injurious to the health of the population, and demands the serious attention of Parliament."
 MR. MACKINNON , in rising to move for leave to bring in a Bill, in accordance with the Resolution of the House last Session, wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether it were the intention of Her Majesty's Government to take any steps in accordance with the recommendation of the Committee on this subject, and with the Resolution of the House of last Session? And, if the answer was in the negative, whether, in the event of the Motion being brought forward by him (Mr. Mackinnon), the right han. Baronet would give it his concurrence and support?
 SIR DE LACY EVANS : I regret that I so imperfectly expressed myself with reference to the manœuvres of General Sir H. Smith. I did not suppose the right hon. Baronet intended any other than to acknowledge in the best spirit the honour and glory due to the gallant Officer; but I thought it right, as a military man, to object to a word that he made use of. I am glad to hear that it is Her Majesty's gracious intention to bestow the honours of the Peerage upon Sir Hugh Gough. I, for one, received that announcement with delight; and I am sure that feeling will be shared in from one end of the country to the other. For my own part, I will venture to say, I should be gratified to find that, in
 465
 SIR DE LACY EVANS : I hope this House will allow me to give my cordial
 454 455 456
 SIR HOWARD DOUGLAS  said, that having paid his tribute of admiration on a former occcasion to the great achievements of the Indian army, he should not enter again into tactical details relating to that splendid plan of operations. He rejoiced that separate votes of thanks were proposed to be given to Sir Henry Smith, and to the Commander in Chief, Sir Hugh Gough, for the two distinct and brilliant victories which they had gained; for had not Sir Henry Smith succeeded in the very difficult and critical operations intrusted to him, and defeated the well-conceived and very formidable attempt made by the enemy to intercept the main communications of the army, the crowning victory of Sobraon, in which he too had a principal share, had never taken place. The operations of the division under Sir Henry Smith, were, tactically, of the most difficult description, and were conducted with admirable skill, and a perfect knowledge of the science of his profession. And he (Sir H. Douglas) agreed with his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Westminster, that nothing occurred in these movements which could be considered to have been disappointment, far less a "reverse." There was a trifling sacrifice of some of the baggage which followed in the rear, which Sir Henry Smith had too much skill and constancy of purpose to attempt to protect by any hesitation, or deviation from his plan, which must have brought on a general action ere he had formed his junction with the other corps. Had he done this, the great object for which he was detached would have failed; and the most serious consequences must have ensued, to the main operations, instead of being a prelude to that great victory for which the House was now about to return thanks to the Commander in Chief, the officers, and soldiers, who fought on that glorious day—one of the most splendid and eventful in military history. Having described, from a plan in his hand, the works thrown up by the
 457 tête de pont, têtes de pont
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, the House would remember that the Resolution referred to had been carried against his strong remonstrance; and that though he had voted against it, he was left in a minority. What he had stated then he was prepared to state now—that the subject, in his eyes, was only exceeded in its importance by its difficulty; but, having given it his best consideration, he had come to the resolution that he could not, on the part of the Government, frame any measure satisfactory to himself for the adoption of Parliament. Under these circumstances he should most gladly support the Motion of his hon. Friend; and when the measure which he proposed to introduce was before the House, he should give it all the attention in his power, and endeavour to make it as fit for the purpose in view as possible.
 SIR J. GRAHAM , in explanation, wished a right rev. Prelate in another House of Parliament had introduced a Bill on the subject, and then much of the difficulties of the question connected with the Established clergy would most likely have been avoided. The Dissenting bodies, it should be recollected, were also very deeply concerned in the measure.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  had felt considerable difficulty upon this question, and that difficulty had been much increased by the course which the hon. Member for Finsbury had taken. The hon. Member had substituted for the Motion of which he had given notice, the Motion that a Committee of Inquiry be appointed. He (Sir J. Graham) did not think that upon that Motion the House need discuss what was the character of the Messrs. Baxter, or the character of the girls. The question had been settled; but the question which they had now to discuss was, whether justice had been administered in this case. Now, while he distinctly admitted the right of any persons who felt themselves aggrieved to come before the House of Commons, he considered that petitioners ought not to come before a legislative body, except in the last resort. He laid this down as a general rule. Then the question came to the point as put by the hon. and learned Member for Cockermouth. Was there a short and satisfactory remedy elsewhere? The law in Scotland was upon this subject different from that which prevailed in other parts of the United Kingdom. Year by year the Faculty of Advocates appointed a standing committee of the most distinguished members of that body, to consider the cases of parties coming forward to sue  in forma pauperis. probabilis causa litigandi, 479
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that since the hon. Gentleman had given notice of his Motion, he had not had any opportunity of receiving information from Ireland on the subject; and he was, therefore, quite uninformed as to the case. The hon. Gentleman, however, only did the Government justice in stating his belief that the employment of persons to entrap others into crime would be regarded by Government as the greatest possible outrage upon law and property, and that it would receive their most prompt and grave reprobation. He had no objection to the production of the Returns moved for.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : The House, I am sure, will pardon me one moment. I am inclined to think the hon. Member for Montrose has not heard what I said in answer to the hon. Gentleman. The hon. Member for Limerick places on the Notice Paper a substantive charge as to a particular person, and that so recently that I have not had an opportunity of receiving an answer from Ireland. I directed immediate inquiries as to the facts to be made, and I have not yet received an answer. In the absence of that reply, I have stated that I was most willing to give an assurance that the Government would never sanction the employment of spies, directly or indirectly. The hon. Member for Meath gives a number of cases. I hope I shall be excused when I say—considering the office I hold is not immediately connected with Ireland—that I never heard of them before. I will undertake, on the part of the Crown, to assure the hon. Gentleman, that there shall be a searching inquiry as to the conduct of the policeman mentioned; that, if found to have offended as described, he shall be dismissed; and that a general order shall be issued that no such means as those referred to shall be issued by any one in the pay of the Government.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : I do not rise for the purpose of offering any opposition to the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman. With regard to the first part of his Motion, the explanation which the hon. and learned Gentleman requires is very natural. As to this gentleman's schedule, it may be true that he was unfortunate, and had taken the benefit of the Insolvent Act; but this misfortune did not at all invalidate the accuracy of any statement made by him. I must observe that I had no personal knowledge whatever of the gentleman. I was struck by his statement, and by the forcible language in which it was conveyed, and also by the circumstance that he was placed, in 1828, in the chair of the Catholic Association, on the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Cork.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Laws respecting Highways in England. In addressing the Speaker, he was addressing one who was peculiarly conversant with this subject; and the Bill which he sought to bring in was the result of the great attention and labour which the Speaker had bestowed upon it. The House was aware that the sum levied for the maintenance and repair of highways in England annually amounted to 1,600,000 l. 490 d. 491 s. d.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that the hon. Gentleman declared that he knew nothing whatever of the transaction except what he had collected from newspaper report, which he had read, and which, he said, had been positively contradicted in another newspaper which he had not seen. He took it, that the hon. Gentleman knew nothing of the transaction except from newspaper report. He wished he could state that he entirely discredited it. He had already stated that under the present circumstances of Ireland, he had expected that Irish landlords would exhibit more than ordinary forbearance—that they would do so in the present unhappy circumstances of Ireland; and generally there had been that forbearance exhibited. The hen. Gentleman talked of outrages that had been committed. He was confident that there was no person in that House, but had a sincere desire that outrages should not be committed, and when committed should be suppressed by all lawful means. But, to render Ireland habitable, tranquillity should be preserved. He must say that that terrible system which went under the name of "clearing estates," ought to be discountenanced; and if it proceeded it would be absolutely necessary to check it by legislative means. At present he knew nothing of the facts of the case. Having made this statement, he thought the hon. Gentleman would agree with him that it would be superfluous to move an Address to the Crown, as the matter was under inquiry by the competent authorities, and the Ministers had not yet received the information. When that information was received, he should be prepared to inform the hon. Gentlemen and the House what on inquiry were the real facts. In the meantime he thought it only justice to the parties concerned that the House should suspend their judgment, these allegations having been met by a positive denial.
 SIR J. C. HOBHOUSE  said: Sir, I consider it a very proud distinction to be permitted to second the Motion of the right hon. Baronet; but I can assure the House that I shall do so in a very few sentences. After the eloquent and effective appeal which has been made by the right hon. Gentleman, it would be superfluous in me to do more than, in a very few words, explain why I consider we are called on to pay this tribute of thanks to the gallant general and the troops under his command. General Smith has, as the right hon. Baronet says, by these actions maintained the glory of his former character, and contributed to the subsequent success—to that success which is to form the subject of the second vote of thanks which the right hon. Gentleman is this night to move. And here I may take the liberty of observing, that never, I believe, in the annals of Parliament—never, I believe, upon any former occasion—was it the good fortune of a Minister of the Crown to propose two votes of thanks upon the same night for two such brilliant victories as those which it has been the right hon. Gentleman's duty to bring before the notice of the House on this occasion. It is, as the right hon. Gentleman said, a peculiar felicity that we should have this opportunity of recording the sentiments of a British House of Commons upon his proposal, and bearing our testimony to those great exploits—exploits which the right hon. Gentleman is perfectly justified in saying have never been exceeded, if they have ever been equalled, in the history of this country. It is superfluous for me to say much more upon this subject, because, as the right hon. Gentleman has told you, we have in the despatches of those gallant officers their own account of these great deeds, and such an account as shows not less their modesty than their valour; for we find the record
 449 Eodem animo scripsit quo bellavit; 450
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  would not follow the hon. Gentleman who had spoken last in the former part of his observations; and it was sufficient for him to say that he entirely agreed with the latter part of them, and
 451 "God has blessed Her Majesty's arms with as great a victory as has ever been known." "Almighty God has blessed His Majesty's arms in the late battle by a great victory over the fleet of the enemy, whom I attacked at sunset, on the 1st of August, off the mouth of the Nile." "The Almighty God, whose arm is strength, having of his great mercy been pleased to crown the exertions of His Majesty's fleet with success, in giving them a complete victory over their enemies, on the 21st of this month; and that all praise and thanksgiving may be offered up to the
 452 "Thanks to Almighty God, whose hand I desire to acknowledge in all our successes, the occasion of my writing now is to announce a fourth and most glorious and decisive victory." 453
 SIR R. INGLIS : A generous suggestion has been made by the hon. Member who has just sat down, which would have been a proper suggestion from any one; but is doubly friendly from him, with reference to the honours that may be conferred upon Sir Henry Hardinge. I know as well as any one that it is the duty of the House not to interfere with the prerogatives of the Crown. But I perfectly agree in the allusion made by the hon. and gallant Member, that if the right hon. Baronet should feel it his duty to make any recommendation to Her Majesty upon this point, it would be followed by the grateful thanks of this House, and of the country generally. There is another gallant Officer who has not been so prominently mentioned
 466
 SIR R. PEEL : I feel that this is rather a delicate subject; but in order to prevent the possibility of any doubt, I may state to the House that the despatches had not been in the possession of the Queen an hour, when Her Majesty signified her intention of conferring the honours of the peerage upon Sir Henry Hardinge and Sir Hugh Gough. I may also state that the appointment of Aid-de-Camp to the Queen was made out for Lieutenant Colonel Taylor for his previous services, before the intelligence of his death arrived. I rise to make these explanations, in order to show that every wish expressed by the House has been anticipated by the Queen, in the desire to reward with distinctions those who had conducted themselves gallantly.
 SIR R. PEEL  thought that it would be unnecessary for him to trouble the House further than merely to propose the Resolutions, embodying a Vote of Thanks to Sir Hugh Gough and Sir Henry Hardinge, and the officers and soldiers serving under these distinguished generals. The gallant Officer (Sir De Lacy Evans) misunderstood him if he supposed that he (Sir R. Peel) intended to have made the slightest reflection on Sir Harry Smith, with respect to any loss in the baggage of his army; on the contrary, in what he had said he had been most desirous of paying an additional compliment to the gallant General for his most able and judicious conduct previously to the action of the 28th. Instead of implying any sort of blame, he intended to express his opinion that the movement of the troops previously to the battle of Aliwal had been conducted with the greatest skill and bravery. He was fully aware that it was a matter of delicacy to allude in that House to the probable exercise of the prerogative of Her Majesty. He would not, however, let the opportunity pass of observing that Her Majesty had signified, within one hour after the receipt of the despatches, Her gracious intention of conferring the honour of the British Peerage on Sir Henry Hardinge and on Sir Hugh Gough. He would take that opportunity of alluding to events which ought not to pass in silence. In a communication from Sir Henry Hardinge, which he received yesterday, that gallant Officer bore testimony to the valour of the distinguished Prussian Prince and the officers who accompanied him in the campaign
 463 "I want words to express my gratitude to Major General Gilbert. Not only have I to record that in this great fight all was achieved by him which, as Commander-in-Chief, I could desire to have executed; not only on this day was his division enabled, by his skill and courageous example, to triumph over obstacles from which a less ardent spirit would have recoiled as insurmountable; but since the hour in which our leading columns moved out of Umballah, I have found in the Major General an officer who has not merely carried out all my orders to the letter, but whose zeal and tact have enabled him in a hundred instances to perform valuable services in exact anticipation of my wishes. I beg explicitly to recommend him to your Excellency's special notice as a divisional commander of the highest merit." "That the Thanks of this House be given to the Right Hon. Lieutenant General Sir Henry Hardinge, Knight Grand Cross of the Most honourable Military Order of the Bath, Governor General of India, for the judgment, energy, and ability with which the resources of the British Empire in India have been applied, in repelling the unjust and unprovoked invasion of the British Territory by the Sikh nation; and for the valour and indefatigable exertions which he displayed on the 10th of February, 1846, at the Battle of Sobraon, when, by the blessing of Almighty
 464 "That the Thanks of this House be given to General Sir Hugh Gough, Bart., Knight Grand Cross of the Most honourable Military Order of the Bath, Commander in Chief of the Forces in India, for the signal ability and valour with which, in the Battle of Sobraon, upon the 10th of February, 1846, he directed and led the attack, when the enemy's entrenchments were stormed, their artillery captured, their army defeated and scattered, and the Punjaub laid open to the advance of our victorious Troops. "That the Thanks of this House be given to Major General Sir Henry George Smith, Knight Commander of the Most honourable Military Order of the Bath; Major General Walter Raleigh Gilbert; and Major General Sir Joseph Thackwell, Knight Commander of the Most honourable Military Order of the Bath: and to the other Officers, European and Native, for the distinguished services rendered by them in the eminently successful operations at the battle of Sobraon. "That this House doth highly approve of and commend the invincible intrepidity, perseverance, and steady discipline displayed by the Non-commissioned Officers and Private Soldiers, European and Native, in the Battle of Sobraon, on the 10th of February, 1846, by which the glory of the British Arms has been successfully maintained against a determined and greatly superior force; and that the same be signified to them by the commanders of the several corps, who are desired to thank them for their gallant behaviour." "That the Thanks of this House be given to The Right Honourable Lieutenant General Sir Henry Hardinge, Knight Grand Cross of the Most honourable Military Order of the Bath, Governor General of India, for the judgment, energy, and ability, with which the resources of the British Empire in India have been applied in repelling the unjust and unprovoked invasion of the British Territory by the Sikh Nation; and for the valour and indefatigable exertions which he displayed on the 10th of February, 1846, at the Battle of Sobraon, when, by the blessing of Almighty God, which we desire most humbly to acknowledge, this hostile and treacherous invasion was successfully defeated."
 SIR R. PEEL  spoke as follows: I am enabled, I will not say through the courtesy, but the public spirit and generous feeling of many Members who had Motions entitled to precedence over mine, to bring forward that of which I gave notice immediately on the receipt of the intelligence of our recent successes in India. That Motion, interposed as it is between discussions of great political importance, leading to much eager and even angry controversy, and to serious differences of opinion, will, I know from past experience, obtain the hearty and unanimous concurrence of this House. That Motion will unite the representatives of a great Empire, proud of its military glory, in acknowledging in the first place the protecting hand of Almighty God the giver of all victory, and in then expressing their exultation that new examples of heroism have maintained and exalted the military character of their country. That Motion will enable us to pay a tribute of cordial and grateful acknowledgment to the generals, to the officers, and to the men, who have achieved signal victories in a far distant land. It will enable us also to mingle with the admiration of valour the expression of a manly but heartfelt sorrow for the loss of the "unreturning brave," who have sacrificed, willingly sacrificed, their lives in the defence of their country's interests, and in the maintenance of their country's honour. The Resolutions I shall propose will convey
 437 tête de pont 438 439 "When within a mile and a half to my left of Buddowal, moving parallel with my column (which was right in front ready to wheel into line), and evidently for the purpose of interrupting my advance, I saw the enemy. Nothing could be stronger for the enemy than the continued line of villages which were in his front. "He was moving by roads, while I was moving over very heavy sandbeds. He was in advance far bevond, on my right flank; so far did he extend, and so numerous did he show his infantry and guns, and so well chosen for him was the line of villages, that with my force he was not to be assailed; and he opened a furious cannonade of from thirty-five to forty guns of very large calibre, and, as usual, right well served. My object being to unite myself with the force from Loodiana, which every moment I expected to appear in sight—for it was nine o'clock—I moved parallel with the enemy, resolving to attack the moment the Loodiana troops reached me. He, however, so pressed upon me, that I opened in one body my eleven guns upon him with considerable effect, and moved up the 31st, and was preparing to form line upon this regiment, when the enemy most rapidly formed a line of seven regiments, with their guns, between, at right angles with the line I was about to attack, while a considerable force was moving round my right and front. Thus enveloped, and overwhelmed by numbers, and such a superiority of guns, I had nothing for it but to throw back my line on its right, which represented a small line on the hypothenuse of a triangle." 440 "The enemy thus outflanked me and my whole force. I therefore gradually withdrew my infantry in echellon of battalions, the cavalry in echellon of squadrons, in the direction of Loodiana, momentarily expecting to see the approach of that force—viz., one regiment of cavalry, five guns, and four regiments of infantry, when I would have made a vigorous attack. The ground was very deep and sandy, and therefore very difficult to move on. The enemy continued to move on as described for upwards of an hour, and until I knew the Loodiana force was moving not a musket was fired. Nothing could exceed the steadiness of the troops. The line was thrown back, under this cannonade, as if on parade, Native as well as British, and the movements of the cavalry, under Brigadier Cureton, were, without any exception, the most perfect thing I ever saw, and which I cannot describe." 441 442 443 "It is now with pride and with pleasure I enclose you a copy of my despatch, detailing one of the most splendid and decisive victories upon record—the Waterloo of India. I have entered so fully both into detail and commendation in my despatch to the Governor General, that it would be impossible for me to enlarge upon a subject embracing the warmest feelings of my heart. Policy, however, precluded me publicly recording my sentiments on the splendid gallantry of our fallen foe, or to record the acts of heroism displayed, not only individually, but almost collectively, by the Sikh Sirdars and army; and I declare, were it not from a deep conviction that my country's good required the sacrifice, I could have wept to have witnessed the fearful slaughter of so devoted a body of men. Never, in the page of military history, has the hand of an All-wise Being been so signally manifested: to Him, therefore, be the glory; we, as his instruments, feel the pride. But I cannot pass over—I cannot too strongly record—facts which, whilst they add lustre to the native army, afford to me, as its head, inexpressible pride and pleasure. For upwards of a month, when the two armies were close in front of one another, notwithstanding the numerous
 444 445 "The army has sustained a heavy loss by the death of Brigadier Taylor, an able officer, and worthy to have been at the head of Her Majesty's 20th Regiment, by which he was beloved and respected." 446 447 "That the Thanks of this House be given to Major General Sir Henry George Smith, Knight Commander of the Most honourable Military Order of the Bath, for his skilful and meritorious conduct, when in command of the British Troops employed against a large portion of the Sikh Army, of greatly superior numbers; and for the signal valour and judgment displayed by him in the Battle of Aliwal on the 28th of January, 1846, when the Enemy's Force was totally defeated, and new lustre added to the reputation of the British Arms. "That the Thanks of this House be given to the several Officers, European and Native, under the command of Sir Henry Smith, for the distinguished services rendered by them at the Battle of Aliwal. "That this House doth highly approve of, and commend, the intrepidity and exemplary discipline displayed by the Non-commissioned Officers and Private Soldiers, European and Native, in the Battle of Aliwal, on the 28th of January, 1846, in their attack on the Enemy's position, by which the Sikhs were completely routed, and driven in confusion across the Sutlej, with the loss of all their Artillery and Military
 448 "That, in requesting the Governor General of India to communicate these Resolutions to the several Officers referred to therein, this House desires to acknowledge the zeal and judgment evinced by the Right honourable Lieutenant General Sir Henry Hardinge, Knight Grand Cross of the Most honourable Military Order of the Bath, Governor General of India; and also by General Sir Hugh Gough, Bart., Knight Grand Cross of the Most honourable Military Order of the Bath, Commander in Chief of the Forces in India, in supplying Major General Sir Henry Smith with such reinforcements and military means as enabled him, under Divine Providence, to overcome all the obstacles thrown in his way by a brave and determined Enemy."
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Mr. Speaker, I rise with considerable anxiety to answer the appeal of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War; and I must say, that it is a great satisfaction to me in doing so to observe that the speeches which have been made on this occasion, beginning with the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, have been marked by temperance and forbearance, and that the House seems fully aware of the great importance of the subject we are discussing. Sir, I readily confess that when the case is brought before us of many crimes of a dreadful character committed in certain counties in Ireland, we, having by the Act of Union between the two countries taken upon ourselves the responsibility of legislating for that country, are bound to take every care that due protection is given to life and property, on the one hand, and that no unnecessary infringement of liberty should take place on the other. Such, Sir, is the burden which is placed upon us, and such is the burden that we cannot shake off, but must endeavour manfully to bear. But when the right hon. Gentleman opposite tells me that he wishes the present Bill to be read a first time, and that he has stated sufficient grounds in the narrative of crime which he had made to the House to induce it to admit that first reading, I will so far agree with the right hon. Gentleman that I regret the first reading should have been taken as the stage upon which this question of the rejection of this Bill altogether is to be tried. But the occasion having been taken, I do not feel myself relieved from the responsibility of stating how far I think the measure of the Government ought to be sanctioned and admitted by this House, or how far we ought to agree with the Ministers in the policy they are at present pursuing. I think that, looking to the Bill itself, there was a remarkable failure in the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the
 548 primâ facie 549 550 551 552 553 554 "In the first place, it was exceedingly desirable that the institutions of the two countries should be assimilated as much as possible; and, as a general rule, whatever it was proper and right to do with respect to a corporate body in England and Wales, it would be proper and right to do with respect to a corporate body in Ireland." "He knew of no greater grievance in Ireland than the existence of the corporations in question in their present shape; and nothing could be more satisfactory to the people of Ireland than the approaching certainty that that grievance would be redresed." 555 556 557 fiat justitia, ruat cœlum, ruit cœlum, fiat justitia;
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he was glad to hear that explanation from the right hon. Gentleman, as it entirely removed the misconception into which he and others had fallen upon that subject.
 MR. P. S. BUTLER  said, that after the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, he felt greater diffidence than usual in addressing the House; but, for his part, he could not aspire to the distinction of being a fluent and eloquent speaker, and would only endeavour to adhere to the sound principles of common sense which, as far as he knew, had always had some influence with a British audience. He denounced as much as any one in that House the horrible, disgraceful, and cowardly act of assassination; and he believed that the hon. Members who sat around him fully entertained similar feelings on the subject. But he was also opposed to the introduction of the measure proposed by Her Majesty's Government—not only, he said, because it was opposed to the great principle of the Constitution, but that he believed it would prove ineffectual in the attainment of the object contemplated. He had no hesitation in saying that if it was even proposed to suspend the Habeas Corpus Act—which was so repugnant to the British people—if he felt satisfied that it would have the effect of putting an end to those disgraceful acts in Ireland; he would be the last man to interfere when the adoption of the measure by the House would have the effect of putting an end to those acts, which he considered to be a disgrace to the country to which he belonged. He could not, however, look upon the proposition under discussion as anything more or less than an old friend with a new face. He had some little experience in Ireland, and it was his solemn belief that if they passed that Act, it would entirely fail in the object proposed. He recollected the occasion when the Insurrection Act had been introduced into Ireland, and the reasons which had led to it, which he would take leave to relate briefly to the House. There was a nobleman, who had been residing in this country, who possessed a very large property in Ireland, the leases of which were about to fall, and were only depending upon a single life. The persons who were in occupation of this land were in a comparatively independent station in life, and in a higher class of society than usually held similar tracts
 565 Nation 566 Times "By far the most serious feature of the age is the increase of infanticide. Not a day passes but the disclosures of an inquest or a trial establish the melancholy truth that human life is losing its value in England. The laxity of the verdicts, and the leniency of the sentences, equally prove that we are becoming familiarized with the crime, and that we consider it palliated by the extreme provocation of the circumstances. Crime, however, is crime, and its guilt rests somewhere. If it rests not on the person, it rests on the system—on those who tempt, and goad, and drive to crime. We are relapsing into a criminal and vitiated system. What we have been accustomed to read of with horror, the indifference to infant life in Lacedemon, in Rome, and other States of heathen antiquity, in China, in India, and elsewhere, and what we have set down as the worst blot in their imperfect civilization, is becoming the characteristic of England." 567
 MR. O'CONNELL  said: In rising to propose an Amendment to the Motion of the right hon. Baronet, I promise the House to be as brief as I reasonably can; and if I should trespass upon its patience longer than my own inclination would dictate, I trust that the importance of the question will plead my excuse. The case on behalf of the promoters of the Bill has been stated by the right hon. Baronet in a manner which it is impossible should give dissatisfaction to any quarter. I will not say one word against that manner. I never heard a harsh measure more moderately proposed; and there is, I may say for us, danger even in moderation. The only attempts of the right hon. Baronet at anything like the colouring of oratory was, when he attributed the crimes to causes out of which they have not arisen. I do not think he has shown in the slightest degree, he scarcely attempted to show, that the evils, such as they are, would be remedied by this measure: in fact, he only alluded to the Bill just to vindicate the severity of its provisions, by comparing it with former enactments. He did not show, or attempt to show, that this Bill would remedy the existing evils, or prevent the crimes with which we are unhappily menaced in Ireland. There were, however—shall I call them admissible?—statements made by the right hon. Baronet that are highly consolatory. It is consolatory to know, on the authority of Government, that there is nothing political in the crimes charged against Ireland—above all, that there is nothing religious, or belonging to any sect or religion, in the crimes themselves—that they are equally perpetrated against persons of every species of politics, against persons of each religion—that the Roman Catholic religion is no protection to Roman Catholics, and Protestantism no incentive against Protestants. It is confessed by Her Majesty's Government, and it is an undoubted fact, that there is nothing in these outrages which partakes either of sectarianism or political bias. I will now proceed to notice other statements made by the right hon. Baronet. He said distinctly, that out of thirty-two counties in Ireland twenty-two are free from disturbance: there are five in which it is partial, and five more where it prevails to a greater extent. Thus, no less than two-
 494 "Mr. P. B. Ryan.—We regret being under the unavoidable necessity of postponing the able and masterly reply of P. Fogarty, esq., of Cabra Castle, to an extraordinary letter which has recently been published, with the name of the above gentleman signed to it. Mr. Fogarty says, that the Thurles bench of magistrates should be appealed to in relation to Mr. B. Ryan's wonderful letter." 495 l. l. habere 496 "That while this House deplores the existence of outrage in Ireland, and is sincerely anxious for its repression, it is of opinion that such outrage will be aggravated, not removed, by the arbitrary, unjust, and unconstitutional enactments of this Bill; and that it is the duty of Parliament to adopt such measures as will tend to eradicate the causes which produce those crimes, instead of resorting to laws which will harass and oppress the innocent without restraining the guilty, and which being restrictive of public liberty cannot fail to augment national discontent." 497 Hansard. sic volo sic jubeo habeas corpus 498 l. 499 500 501 posse comitatus 502 Hansard, Hansard 503 "I spoke to several of the magistrates, requesting that they would omit, in their application for the Insurrection Act, the barony of Ida and the barony of Gowran, south of Thomastown. "You were not aware of any disturbances at that time in the barony of Ida, or the southern part of the barony of Gowran?—I was not. "Do you know on what grounds the magistrates recommended the proclamation of either? Several of the magistrates told me that if they did not proclaim it, the disaffected would take refuge there. The answer I made to them was, 'When they do so, and when it is disturbed, then, and not till then, apply to have it proclaimed.' … I have since received a letter from my agent, in which he states that he has seen a notice posted in the town of Innistiogue, by order of the magistrates, prohibiting all persons from being out after sunset, and particularly the fishermen. He further states that it his intention to appear at the petty sessions of magistrates, to request them to exempt the fishermen from that order; as, if they were prevented from fishing at night, the principal means of support of several families would be taken away. He informs me that during the summer they can only fish at night on that part of the river (Nore)." "I am particularly acquainted with that part of Kilkenny now under proclamation, adjoining the Queen's County. "Had there been any disturbance in it at the time the Act was put into execution?—Not in the barony of Innisfadden, adjoining the Queen's County: I am aware of none. "Can you state on what ground it was the Insurrection Act was applied for as far as respects that barony, and the circumstances attending it?—I understand that some few trees, some two or three, had been felled in the domain of Lady Ormond, and I am not aware of any other transaction at all that could justify the application of such a measure." 504 "Do you recollect the introduction of the police in the county of Limerick, under the Peace Preservation Bill?—I do. There had been a county meeting held, at which it was resolved that the state of the county did not then require the introduction of the police; and shortly after that county meeting, at the spring assizes following, the grand jury applied to the Lord Lieutenant to place the county under the Peace Preservation Bill. "And on that application, notwithstanding the decision of the county at large, the police were introduced?—They were introduced. "What description of persons were appointed to that police?—Generally speaking, they were very unfit persons. "Was the Insurrection Act enforced in those baronies which continued in a state of tranquillity?—It was. There was a memorial sent up from the baronies of Clanwilliam, Ownebeg, and Croonagh, signed by nearly all the resident magistrates, by most of the proprietors, and by clergymen of both persuasions, stating the good order and tranquillity that had prevailed, and was prevailing in the baronies, and how hard it would be to expose the occupiers of the land to a very heavy tax under the Peace Preservation Bill; but the answer received was, that it was in contemplation to send police to the whole county, and that the Lord Lieutenant saw no reason for excepting those baronies." 505 "1801, two Coercion Acts; 1802, July, two Acts; 1803, December, two Acts; 1805, February, one Act; 1807, August, two Acts; 1814, July, one Act; 1817, June, one Act; 1822, February, two Acts; 1823, March, one Act; 1831, October, one Act; 1833, April, one Act; August, one Act; total, seventeen different Acts. Observe, that the first of these Acts in 1801 was intituled 'An Act for the protection of His Majesty's Subjects in Ireland. The Habeas Corpus Act was suspended from the Union until 1803, when the Whigs allowed it to revive. Suspended again from 1807 to 1810; again from 1814 to 1818; again from 1822 to 1828; again from 1829 to 1331; again from 1833 to 1835." l. 506 post hoc, ergo propter hoc. 507 "Your professional intercourse with Ireland has given you the means of general accurate information on the state of the peasantry of that country? "I have seen a great deal of the peasantry. I have sometimes slept in their cabins, and had frequent intercourse with them, especially in the south and west of Ireland. "I conceive the peasantry in Ireland to be, in general, in almost the lowest possible state of existence; their cabins are in the most miserable condition, and their food is potatoes with water—very often without anything else—frequently without salt, and I have frequently had occasion to meet persons who begged of me on their knees, for the love of God, to give them some promise of employment, that from the credit of that they might get the means of supporting themselves for a few months, until I could employ them." "Is the condition of the people very bad in respect to the means of subsistence, and houses, and dress? — Excepting where a gentleman's own residence is, particularly so. I have seen several countries, and I never saw any peasantry so badly off." 508 "Will you describe to the Committee, generally, the condition of the people, and their habits of living?" "In the part of the country (county Cork) that I am best acquainted with, the condition of the people is the very worst that can possibly be. Nothing can be worse than the condition of the lower classes of the labourers, and the farmers are not much better; (381) they have nothing whatever, I think, but the potatoes and water—they seldom have salt." "What is the state of the lower orders in your diocese?—I can safely state to the Committee that the extent and intensity of their distress is greater than any language can describe; and that I think the lives of many hundreds of them are very often shortened by this great distress." "It also enervates their minds, and paralyses their energies, and leaves them incapable of almost any useful exertion." "Thus he drags out an existence that it were better it were terminated in any way than to be continued in the manner it is." "What is the condition of the peasantry?—Wretched in the extreme." "Are the habitations of the people in that country exceedingly miserable? — Miserable, with very few exceptions." "That a very considerable proportion of the population (variously estimated at a fourth or fifth of the whole) is considered to be out of employment; that this, combined with the consequences of an altered system of managing land, is stated to produce misery and suffering which no language can possibly describe, and which it is necessary to witness in order fully to estimate." "The situation of the ejected tenantry, or of those who are obliged to give up their small holdings in order to promote the consolidation of farms, is necessarily most deplorable. It would be impossible for language to convey an idea of the state of distress to which the ejected tenantry have been reduced, or of the disease, misery, or even vice which they have propagated in the towns where they have settled; so that not only they who have been ejected have been rendered miserable, but they have carried with them and propagated that misery. They have increased the stock of labour—they have rendered the habitations of those who have received them more crowded—they have given occasion to the dissemination of disease—they have been obliged to
 509 "That the agricultural labourers of Ireland suffer the greatest privations and hardships;" that "they depend upon precarious and casual employment for subsistence;" that "they are badly housed, badly fed, badly clothed, and badly paid for their labour;" that "it would be impossible to describe adequately the sufferings and privations which the cottiers and labourers and their families in most part of the country endure;" that "in many districts their only food is the potato, their only beverage water;" that "their cabins are seldom a protection against the weather;" that "a bed or a blanket is a rare luxury;" and that "nearly in all, their pig and their manure heap constitute their only property;" that "a large proportion of the entire population comes within the designation of agricultural labourers, and endure sufferings greater than the people of any other country in Europe have to sustain." 510 "Are any circumstances in your knowledge concerning the anxiety of the population to be employed?—I have known at that period (the time of distress) that any person, in fact, that could afford to give the people one meal a day could get their labour for it. "One meal of what?—One meal of food of any kind. I believe there were instances of it. "I think it (submissiveness towards persons in a higher station) is carried beyond proper respect, and that it is more than is justified. I think they have been unused to fair dealing from the upper orders; and that, if they get it, they are astonished and gratified beyond measure. "Is there not, at the same time, a strong attachment on the part of the tenantry towards their landlords in cases where they conceive they have been well used?—Very strong." "Do you conceive that if an English gentleman were to engage in the investment of capital in any commercial or manufacturing speculation in the centre of that very district, or the most disturbed part of it, that they would be in any hazard, personal or otherwise?—I think neither himself nor
 511 "Generally speaking, is their disposition orderly and quiet?—Generally speaking, it is so; and to the want of employment I attribute, in a great measure, much of our unhappy state. "Is there a great anxiety on the part of the people to be employed?—The greatest possible; the anxiety of the creatures to be employed for any kind of remuneration is wonderfully great. "Are they industrious?—Very industrious, indeed, if they can only get employment." "The people feel they exist more by sufferance than by law; but whenever they are treated kindly they are grateful, because they think the kindness extraordinary, and the result of natural benevolence rather than of the law." "There is no person more anenable to the law than the Irish peasantry, if they are left alone. "When they find the intention is to deal justly and reasonably with them?—They are the easiest in the world to manage, although they are very wretched. "Are they industrious—do they work hard?—They are the most industrious people in the world. "Are they kind and charitable towards each other? — Their charity is unbounded towards each other; they always give something, more or less, according to their means." "Does not your Grace think, from the experience you have had of the common people of Ireland, that they are very grateful for any benefit conferred upon them, and disposed to submit to the authority of their superiors, when treated with justice?—Certainly, their gratitude is great; they are accustomed to act from immediate feeling and impulse, and very much disposed to receive every favour with a respectful gratitude almost bordering on excess." "Do you find the lower orders of the Irish, with whom you deal, in general a grateful class of persons?—They appear extremely grateful at the moment, and I have no reason to suppose they feel ungrateful at any time. I think they are, in general, a very grateful people. "In general, do you find them easy to be governed?—Certainly, very easy to be governed." "Is there a desire to seek employment where it can be found?—A vast desire; they will work for anything, whatever they can get. I have had
 512 d. "No man in Ireland, be he ever so poor, refuses anything to the travelling beggar. "Have you observed among the lower classes of Ireland a great feeling of charity and kindness?—I believe if they had but one dinner they would share it with a travelling beggar. "You conceive that benevolence is a strong ingredient in the Irish peasant?—A very strong ingredient." "Do you attribute it (viz., any misconduct or lawlessness) to any defect of natural character, or to political circumstances acting strongly on his feelings?—Certainly not to his natural character, but to the political circumstances in which he is placed." "What was the object of your visit to Ireland?—To see the state of the country, with a view to ascertain what was the best means of relieving the distress." "Did you observe in Ireland whether there was any anxiety on the subject of education on the part of the people?—Yes; in all my inquiries I received the same answer, that the anxiety for education was very great. "Which do you consider, the English or the Irish peasantry, to be more desirous of education?—I should think the Irish peasantry." "3993. Do you think there is, on the part of the Irish peasantry, a spirit of industry, and an anxiety to improve, that can be relied upon as a means of eventually bettering their condition?—I certainly do. I think they are energetic and industrious, whenever they see any prospect of their industry tending to their own comfort. "3994. The effects I have witnessed are really extraordinary; people bringing manure from the sea on their backs, up extraordinary cliffs, such as an Englishman would not fancy to be accessible, and I give them credit for infinite perseverance in these ways. I have seen pieces of land cultivated that it would be thought scarcely possible to get at here (in England). "4060. Do you recollect the failure of the crop in 1821?—I do. "4061. Was there not a very great pressure upon different parts of Kerry, at that time, from that failure?—Very considerable. I think out of a population of 230,000 in Kerry, 170,000 were reported to have been destitute of the means of subsistence for the moment; and it ought to be
 513 "there was no employment for the young people, nor relief for the aged, nor means nor opportunity for removing their surplus numbers to some more eligible spot; they could only, therefore, live on hoping, as they said, that times might mend, and their landlords would sooner or later do something for them. Yet with all this suffering, no disturbance or act of violence has occurred in Donegal. During the severe privations of last summer, when numbers were actually in want of sustenance, there was no dishonesty, no plundering. The people starved, but they would not steal; and although their little stock of cattle and moveables has been notoriously lessening these last four years, and especially in the last year, which seems to have swallowed up nearly all their visible means, they have yet paid their rents. The occupier's share of the produce has been insufficient for his support, yet the landlord's share has generally been paid in full." "Our personal experience and observations during our inquiry have afforded us a melancholy confirmation of these statements. And we cannot forbear expressing our strong sense of the patient endurance which the labouring classes have generally exhibited under sufferings, greater, we believe, than the people of any other country in Europe have to sustain." "Up to this period, any improvement that may have taken place is attributable, almost entirely, to the habits of temperance in which they have so generally persevered, and not, we grieve to say, to any increased demand for their labour." "On the property of Lord Stradbroke, in county Limerick, there were forty or fifty families; the whole of that numerous body, consisting of persons of all ages, and both sexes, was dispossessed, and their houses prostrated; they were, generally speaking, destitute of the means of support, and unless relieved by people from charitable motives, I do not know what was to become of them. But
 514 Page 7.—"Will you state what, in your opinion, is the ultimate source of discontent in Ireland?—The extreme misery and wretchedness of the population: the great mass of the population is in a state of poverty, destitute of employment, and, generally speaking, destitute of what, in this country, would be considered the comforts and necessaries of life. It is a subject on which an Englishman can scarcely be said to have the materials even for belief." "In the Queen's County, where the collieries are in full work, there is no instance of any outrage committed in that part of the country. Generally are there more disturbances where there is most poverty and misery?—Certainly; for instance, in the barony of Galmoy there is not a resident gentleman in the whole barony, and that is one of the most disturbed." "In the event of re-entry (on termination of leases), are you aware what becomes of the surplus population?—I hardly know; there are instances where they have been sent off the land, and have hutted themselves upon bogs and other uncultivated places; and some of them go wandering about the country. "Have you any doubt that the system of diminishing the number of tenants is generally acted upon, on the termination of all the leases in that part of Ireland?—I should say it is universally acted upon. "Does not that produce a great deal of misery?—A great deal of misery. It has led to murder, burning of houses, and several other outrages." "What do you consider to have been the immeniate cause of the outrages which have taken place in Munster?—I think the attachment to land and change of possession has been one cause, the collection of tithes by proctors, and an unemployed population." 515 "What becomes of those tenants (evicted on consolidation of farms)?—I cannot inform the Committee what becomes of them; but in one of the cases to which I now allude, I was informed that upwards of twenty families were turned out, and in the other case more than thirty. The consequence was, that the persons so dispossessed did not submit quietly, and in revenge cut the tails off the cattle of the proprietor of the estates, and committed various outrages. In the other case, the people who were turned out mustered a strong armed force, and at night attacked the persons who had been put into possession, whereby some lives were lost. I should here observe, that previous to these occurrences, the country in which this has happened had been peaceable. "2931.—I think this mischief arises from sending the people upon the world without means of procuring shelter or opportunity of earning money." "I found in general that three-fourths of the produce are paid often in rent in Ireland; but certainly, even upon a tillage farm, half the produce is frequently paid in rent—about double the proportion that is paid in England. "4030. I conceive the relation between landlord and tenant has given rise to that political commotion which we call Whiteboyism." "They (the Whiteboy associations, &c.), have always had objects connected more or less with land. "5. Be good enough to explain what appears to you to be the cause of those several outrages. Since I have been Crown Solicitor, I have endeavoured to get at the root of the system by tracing each outrage to its immediate cause.… I have traced the origin of almost every case I prosecuted, and find that they generally arise from the attachment to the dispossession of, and the change in the possession of land.… I have never known a case of direct hostility to the Government, as a Government, although hostility to the law leads to hostility to the Government; but as to direct opposition to the Government, I never knew an instance of that being the object. "14. I knew one instance (of ejectment without provision) which led to a desperate murder on Lord Stradbroke's estate at Bilboa. The farm was out of lease, and during the lease a great number of people had been allowed to reside on it. Mr. Blood, the gentleman who was murdered in Clare last year, took possession of the farm, as agent to Lord Stradbroke, dispossessed the tenants, and levelled their houses, and they were all thrown out on the road. The succeeding tenant was immediately after murdered." 516 "3239. Are the Committee to understand that the Whitefeet are confined to those ejected from their grounds?—It is not confined to them, but they have been the persons that first made it general, and others had an apprehension of a similar fate, and they have joined it from thinking it would be a protection to them to keep them in their land. "3329. I am very sure there is nothing that they would not forgive sooner than the turning them out of their farms. Every string of their hearts is twined round every twig upon them. It is impossible to induce the people to forgive turning them out of the place where their fathers and grandfathers lived. "3331. They abandon their clergy, and we can have no influence over them. "3332. It gathers together all the desperate people?—Yes, they care not if they are taken and hanged for their desperate acts, committed in a state of revenge. Death would be a relief to them—they care not for life. "4101. There is scarcely an outrage committed relative to lands but what the people assign a cause for, if I may use that expression. In some instances the unfortunate people do show one. "4102. What are the Committee to understand to showing a cause?—Oppression, high rent, low wages, and contracts broken." "4373. Asked as to causes of distubance. There have been a great many causes. I will state one that occurred in my own parish. There were three families comprising twenty-three individuals. The heads of those families were accused of having cut scollops or switches, for the purpose of thatching their cabins, or, perhaps, for sale; there were some ash and oak. The parties so offending were summoned, and a fine of 5 l. "4377. Did any other cases of considerable hardship occur in your neighbourhood?—There
 517 "4336. To what do you attribute these outrages?—The poverty of the people, and a great many having been ejected from their lands. "4337. State the particulars of the ejectments.—(Mentions 174 families on one property, 34 on another, and several others, principally at the expiration of their leases.) "4654. The disturbance began subsequent to the ejectment of the people. "4670. How do those people who are ejected maintain themselves afterwards?—Very poorly indeed; they throw themselves into the towns, and live therein, strolling about and trying to get work. "4676. There are some of the familes ejected in the most wretched state—paupers going from door to door." "5606. Do you think that the lower orders have any reason to be discontented? I think very just reasons. "5607. State what these reasons are.—There are many reasons why Ireland should be in a discontented state; but one of the principal reasons is the position of the landlords, and the lower orders of the peasantry." "6676. On the very borders of the barony of Ossory, on a noble Lord's estate, an ejectment was brought against the middleman—an  habere "6677. Was this transaction accompanied by much general disturbance?—It ignited the whole barony of Ossory; so much so that the barony was put under the Peace Preservation Act, with a resident stipendiary magistrate. "6736. Is it your opinion that the clearing of estates and the consolidation of farms has been pushed to too great an extent?—I think, under the circumstances, it has; there is no employment for the poor; and a conviction rests on their minds that a piece of land is necessary to existence. I certainly think that the disposition of the land, lord, and the interest of the landlord, were sufficiently active and alive to carry on the work of depopulation gradually; and I do think he was aided, assisted, and enabled to carry on the system with greater velocity by certain Acts of the Le-
 518 s. "7251. Were there any other circumstances contributed to that state of disturbance that has taken place?—There were. "7252. What are they?—There were a good many people evicted and turned out of their farms. About four years ago there was one gentleman evicted eighty-nine persons; another ninety-six; another ninety-five. "7255. Were these cases where the land had fallen out of lease?—They were. "7257. Gentlemen have agreed to make the farms, in my opinion, as large as possible; and those people who remained on the lands were evicted and put off, as is the case, which I stated of those gentlemen who turned out the numbers I have stated. "7258. Do you conceive that it has been these individuals who have been so turned out, from want of having proper means of supporting themselves, who have become wanderers and vagrants, and the source of the Whitefeet association that prevailed in that part of the countŕy?—I do very much consider so. There were 1,126 of these poor people, who were evicted, with the idle colliers, going about, left idle on a part of two parishes, and all that within six miles of each other. "7260. Do you know them by name?—Yes, I have their names. "7261. Are you able to trace what has become of them in the course of the last four years?—Yes. "7262. State generally what has become of them. Do they continue wandering about?—I have known, on one estate, which is near me, and which I regulated for a gentleman, there has been a great many of the old people turned off that became beggars, and a good many of them died of want." "6743. In answer to question, gives account of eleven murders in Tipperary, from 1816 to 1838, all arising from evictions. "6744. What, in your opinion, has been the cause of the outrages in Tipperary, generally?—Generally on account of land; the letting and the dispossession of land. "6745. What proportion of outrages may be attributed to that cause?—The greatest number, decidedly. "6746 Two-thirds?—Three fourths and more. "7148. Do the Committee understand you rightly, that Tipperary is more disturbed than other counties?—Yes; than other counties on my circuit. "7149. And that the great majority of violent crimes are caused by turning tenants out?—Yes." 519 "From your examination of witnesses, and from other circumstances that must have come to your knowledge occasionally, can you state to the Committee what, in your opinion, has been the cause of those outrages?—I think the causes have been an anxiety to possess land; the dispossession of land, and the disputes about land. "7347. That is, during the whole of that period?—With respect to all the disturbances during the time I have been Crown Solicitor, I could almost trace every outrage to some dispute about land. "7437. Have any outrages that you have inquired into appeared to arise from hostility to the Government?—No; I never knew, in twenty-five years, an instance of any outrages directed against the Government, or that had any political object. "7465. When the causes of outrages have been removed, have you observed that the disturbances have immediately subsided?—I have certainly." "7727. Will you have the goodness to state to the Committee your opinion of the cause of those agrarian outrages?—I believe it is a great deal occasioned by the letting and possession of land, and dispossession of former tenants or occupiers." "8476. Have you heard of any case of tenants being turned out because they gave a vote at elections, contrary to the will of their landlord?—Yes; I have heard of that. "8477. What was the county in which you heard of it?—My own county of Clare." "8605. Will you have the goodness to state to the Committee what, in your opinion, has been the more general and common class of outrage of every description on your circuit?—I think it has always some connexion with the taking of land." "9628. The general groundwork of the outrages in that district you consider to be disputes relating to land?—Yes; property—land, generally speaking. "9720. Is ejectment from land in the county Tipperary synonymous nearly with reduction to destitution and misery on the part of the cottier tenant?—Indeed it is; and ejecting throws them altogether out of their grade of life, out of the rank of farmers into that of labourers. "9746. What, in your opinion, has been, generally speaking, the cause of the great number of murders in the county of Tipperary?—I believe the cause of actual murder is generally ground—something about land." "9992. Are you able to form an opinion whether the ejectments have been more numerous in the county of Tipperary, in proportion to the population, or other counties?—From conferring with different assistant barristers, it would appear
 520 "11755. As far as you have been able to form an opinion, will you have the goodness to state what you conceive to have been the causes of these murders?—From everything which has come to my knowledge, from the number of witnesses I have examined, I am inclined to think—nay, I am certain—these murders have occurred in consequence of persons having been turned out of their lands, and those lands having been granted to persons of an opposite religion and character. "11803. Is there any hostility exhibited towards the Government of the country?—Not the slightest that I am aware of." "12765. What was the cause of the firing at Mr. Synge, and the murder of his servant?—He had turned several of his tenants off his land that had refused to send their children to his school, and a conspiracy was formed on that account to murder him. He was fired at, and his servant shot." 521 522 523 524 "37, 38. Much of our Ulster prosperity has been the result of this extraordinary matter (namely, tenant-right), in connexion with tenure; and no measure would have a greater effect in improving the condition of the south and west than the introduction of tenant-right as it exists in Ulster. I consider tenant-right the claim of the tenant and his heirs to continue in undisturbed possession so long as the rent is paid; and in the event of ejectment or change of occupancy, it is the sum the new occupier must pay the old for the peaceable enjoyment of his holding. I consider tenant-right beneficial to the community, because it establishes a security in the possession of land, and leads to the improvement of the estate, without any expenditure of capital on the part of the landlord. It likewise affords the best security for his rent, as arrears are always allowed to be deducted from the amount the occupier receives for tenant-right. It is very conducive to the peace of the country; for almost every man has a stake in the community, and is, therefore, opposed to agra-
 525 "80. Do they often sell the tenant-right where there is an old lease?—Very frequently. "81. Where the tenant is ejected for non-payment of rent by his landlord, is he allowed to sell his tenant-right?—I am not aware that any such right of sale is recognised by the landlord; but it is generally known throughout the country that an agrarian law exists, such as to intimidate any of the lower class of farmers from taking land from which a tenant has been ejected for any cause, without the person coming in making compensation to the party turned out. "82. That applies to the tenant going out under all circumstances?—I think so." "39. Is the tenant-right or sale of goodwill prevalent in the district, and to whom is the purchase-money paid?—It prevails in the district; the tenants who have held the land think they have a right to dispose of the land when they are golng to leave it. He thinks he has always a right to do so, and very reasonably, I think. "40. Is it generally recognised by the landlords?—Some recognise it, and some do not; but where they do not recognise it, and set their faces against it, they are very generally defeated, and have been obliged to do it after risking life, in some instances, in my neighbourhood. "41. Is it done behind their backs, without their knowledge?—No; they have even ejected the tenantry. I have known some of them do it in the parish I live in. One of them put a man out of his farm, and there is no person will take it. He sent down a person to cultivate the farm, and he was sent home again. The people gathered
 526 "42. How long ago is that?—About three years ago. Something similar happened to a man, about two or three miles from my place, last winter was a year. "43. Is the value of the tenant-right increasing or diminishing, and how is it affected by the tenure?—The value of the tenant-right is decreasing in consequence of the scarcity of money; and I suppose it would be regulated also by the price of land at the time the tenant-right would be sold. If it is at a high rent, they will give less; and if at a low rent, they will not get more. "44. What should you say was the value of tenant-right of land fairly set and held at will, comparing it with a year's rent, or by the acre?—About four years ago, at a place I receive the rent of, it would have sold for 20 l. l. "38. The landlords are compelled to recognise tenant-right, as in several instances in this neighbourhood, where they have refused to allow tenant-right, the incoming tenant's house has been burned, his cattle houghed, or his crops trodden down by night. The disallowance of tenant-right, as far as I know, is always attended with outrage. A landlord cannot even resume possession to himself without paying it. In fact, it is one of the sacred rights of the country which cannot be touched with impunity; and if systematic efforts were made amongst the proprietors of Ulster to invade tenant-right, I do not believe there is a force at the disposal of the Horse Guards sufficient to keep the peace of the province; and, when we consider that all the improvements have been effected at the expense of the tenant, it is perfectly right that this tenant-right should exist; his money has been laid out on the faith of compensation in that shape." 527
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  would not attempt, on a subject so painful as that before them, to go into all the extraneous topics of the speech of the hon. Gentlemen who had just concluded. He should always speak with great respect of the opinions advanced in that House by a Gentleman resident in Ireland, and who did his duty efficiently and perfectly to his tenantry, and those by whom he was surrounded; and it was not meant as any disparagement to that hon. Gentleman, or the country in which he resided, if he did not go into some of those topics. They had an example set them to-night by the calm and temperate manner in which a man of so impassioned a nature as the hon. and learned Gentleman brought forward the Amendment; and he thought that no man, in following that speech, could well transgress the bounds of moderation which the hon. and learned Gentleman had set out. He should be sorry to see party politics introduced with reference to such a subject as that before them; and whatever might be his situation, he never would assist in making Ireland again the battle-field of party. He was an Irish landlord himself, and he had a deep stake in the welfare of that country. He took the warmest
 537 538 539 "I have to report that, on the night of Wednesday, the 10th instant, as Shandy Kenny was returning home from work, he was brutally murdered, near the cross-roads of Dayneen, within three miles of Kildysart, in this county. It appears that about two months ago the deceased's father took a few acres of land from Mr. Pierce Campbell, of this town, out of which a man named James Sexton was, at the same time, ejected, and to this cause alone is to be attributed the perpetration of so dreadful a crime. The unfortunate man was not only shot to death, but his murderers
 540 "The board of directors of the Mining Company of Ireland hereby gives notice to all whom it may concern, that the company's works, at Earls-hill Colliery will be suspended on Saturday, the 20th of December next, or the earliest day admissible under existing contracts. The board has been reluctantly impelled to adopt this course by the outrages and threats to which the company's stewards, Martin Morris and others, have been subjected with impunity, notwithstanding large rewards offered for information which might lead to the punishment of the offenders; and by the threatening notices subsequently served on those well-disposed workmen who are desirous to work under the company, and earn support for themselves and families, but whose lives are too highly valued by the board to be risked by a continuance of the works, until sufficient protection can be afforded to them." "I am sorry to be again obliged to report that an outrage of a very serious nature occurred in this neighbourhood yesterday evening. On my visiting the place this day I learned the following particulars; namely, that about half-past six o'clock on the previous evening a party of armed men, about nine in number, wearing bonnets, and having their faces blackened, entered the house of a respectable farmer, of the name of Murphy, and after discharging a blunderbuss in his face, which fortunately only contained some powder, they, in a most savage manner, commenced beating Murphy with the butt-ends of their guns and clubs, and only left off beating him when they thought he was dead; they broke his
 541 "I have to state that on Sunday, the 25th instant, about seven o'clock, P. M., as John O'Brien, of Gurteen, was on his return home from the village of Feenagh, he was waylaid by five or six men, two of whom, David Lynch, jun., and William Long, both of Clonrycrippa, inflicted with stones two very dangerous wounds on the left side of the head, from the effects of which he now lies very dangerously ill. He cannot name or describe any of the rest of the party, nor can Nancy Sullivan, who accompanied him, and who, by crying out for assistance, saved his life, else it is probable he would have been murdered, as Lynch, Long, and party are old enemies, and belong to a faction always opposed to O'Brien's." 542 "Illegal oaths are administered by them, often by compulsion, to unhappy wretches, who attribute to them an obligation which they deny to more legitimate engagements. Vengeance is denounced against all who refuse to join their associations, or resist their mandates, or give information of their crimes; by those means they become numerous, and the incessant and indefatigable plunder of arms from all descriptions of loyal and peaceable subjects soon renders them formidable.… The humble being who earns his bread by serving the process of a court of law is held up to public hatred, and persecuted like a noxious animal. The witness who gives evidence in a court of justice is stigmatized as an informer, and devoted to general execration; and the juryman is ordered, on pain of death, not to discharge his duty." 543 "I cannot recollect an instance in the experience of many years (and perhaps it is a formidable view of our situation), in which a man has been charged with an insurrectionary offence whose crime could be traced to want or poverty." "In obedience to the commands of his Excellency the Lord Lieutenant, I have the honour to state respectfully my humble opinion, that the Act, commonly called the Coercion Act, should unquestionably be renewed. It strikes me that there can be very little of objection urged upon this subject, as the manner in which the Act has been used by the Government must silence the most ardent advocate for liberty. It has not been hastily applied in any case, and, when it has been applied, it was disarmed of every severity. In a country situated as this is, the most humane and valuable authority the Executive can possess is to restrain the people from nocturnal meetings; and I look upon that provision of the Act to be the most valuable of all. The power to impose the Act on an offending district has the great moral effect of repressing outrage in the other districts; and I am quite satisfied, if the county of Kilkenny had not been proclaimed, disturbance would have spread over all the contiguous counties." "The returns show the actual state this county and city were in for the year preceding the proclamation, and for the proclaimed year, by which it appears that the number of outrages committed in the former, that is from the 1st of April, 1832, to the 1st of April, 1833, amounted to 1590; whereas from the 1st of April, 1833, to the 1st of April, 1834, but 331; making a diminution of 1,259 outrages between the two years…… The people have been, and are, gradually resuming their habits of industry, as the present cultivation of this country shows, and their manners
 544 545 546 547
 MR. S. HERBERT  rose for the purpose of correcting a misapprehension into
 558
 MR. SEYMER  could not discover any wish on the part of any in that House, or of any section of any party in that House, to trample on the liberties of the people of Ireland. It was therefore a very serious thing to make such a charge, nor should it have been lightly made. In reference to what the hon. Member who just sat down had stated, he would ask him to point out a single English county in which murders were committed in noon-day. Let him show a single county where secret tribunals sat to adjudicate on the cause of others—there to decide, and of themselves, who should be first murdered, who should be first sacrificed to their vengeance. Let him point out where such a state of things existed in England. Let the hon. Member point out where, in England, the practice prevailed of intimidating witnesses from coming forward to give their evidence before a jury, no matter how important or how trivial the case: were not witnesses always, in England, at liberty to act according to their own discretion, without fear, and without intimidation? Let such a county or such a district in England be pointed out, and he would assist the Government to have such a county or such a district brought under the provisions of the Bill then before the House. On referring to the records of the crimes of Ireland, he found that out of 170 who were charged with the crime of murder, only eight had received the sentence of death. In that enumeration he had omitted cases of shooting and other grievous offences, which were in many instances not less aggravated in their character than that of murder. But he might fairly assume that nine-tenths of the offences in Ireland were against the person. Suppose that crime to that extent prevailed in England—suppose that nine-tenths of the crimes in England were against the person—would it not be absolutely necessary to introduce some measure which would check crime of so alarming a character. He, for one, would be very sorry to let such a state of things continue, from the difficulty to get juries to convict, even on the clearest evidence, and while the peasant should be tried by his peers as the law directs. Yet it was, in his opinion, that in the disturbed districts of Ireland, the services of a class of
 562 Freeman's Journal, 563 564
 MR. BRIDGEMAN : The right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department referred to a threatening notice which had been sent to Mr. Wilson of the county Clare. As he was acquainted with all the circumstances of that case, he would state for the information of the House that Mr. Wilson, having introduced a system of subsoiling, to which his tenants were opposed, they did forward him a threatening notice, but not with the intention to do him bodily harm, but merely to deter him from persevering in a course to which they were opposed.
 MR. J. KELLY  would not have so soon after taking his seat in the House, obtruded himself on its attention, were it not from his thorough conviction of the dire consequences which would ensue to Ireland, if the Bill before the House were suffered to pass into a law. So strong was that conviction impressed on his mind, that he could not content himself to give a silent vote to a Bill which would brand his country as a nation of assassins. It was, to be sure, stated by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, that it was his intention to find employment for great numbers of the people of Ireland; but he would ask, would not the tendency of the contemplated measure be to give them employment on board the hulks, or to drag out a miserable existence in chains in Sidney, or in some other penal settlement? The Bill before the House, instead of providing the poor of Ireland with the means of procuring wheat and oats, and other agricultural commodities, to meet their pressing necessities, rather makes provisions for an armed soldiery, or insolent police force, to promote and to secure, as may be supposed, the peace of Ireland; but his firm opinion was, that instead of checking crime, it would rather give an increased stimulus to disturbance.
 559 560 561
 MR. B. OSBORNE  apprehended that no Member of that House, however he might differ from the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, could find fault with the manner and temper of his speech. He was anxious, in seconding the Amendment, to say, that while he shared with the right hon. Gentleman who had brought this Bill under discussion in feeling the greatest horror at the murders in Ireland, yet, at the same time, as a resident in that country, and as one deeply interested in its welfare, he deprecated the introduction of the measure as being not only inefficient for its avowed objects, but calculated to inflame the complicated evils of that unfortunate country. It was easy for a Member of that House, taking advantage of the deep-rooted horror of assassination which was common to all civilized beings, to call upon Parliament to pass stringent Acts for the protection of life; but, in his opinion, it would be far more worthy of the character of the right hon. Gentleman as a statesman, if, previously to calling for the enactment of such a law, he had applied himself to the production of measures to eradicate the causes of the evils. If there was one duty more imperative than another upon an English statesman, it was to prove to the people
 528 "Mild and lenient acts ought to precede measures of rigour; they ought to be the  ultima, prima, tota ratio 529 530 "When you state that a considerable improvement has taken place in certain parts of the country in which the Insurrection Act has been in force, do you mean by improvement only that the system of outrage has been effectually checked, or do you mean to say that the disposition to commit outrage has ceased to exist?—I mean to say that a cessation of outrage has been produced; but I cannot say that I believe any material change of disposition has been produced." "What measures are, in your opinion, best calculated to improve the condition of the people of Ireland?—Generally speaking, employment and education. While the circumstances you have mentioned as the cause of the disturbances in Ireland do exist, do you think the Insurrection Act, without other measures, will produce tranquillity?—It will put down the disturbance from time to time to time, but it will not produce a better order of things." "From your experience of the Irish character, would you say they were more easily reclaimed from evil courses, or more easily directed in proper courses by a conciliatory course, or by putting into operation the full extremity of the law?—From my knowledge of the Irish character, I would say that naked penalties alone will not put down offences. They must be mixed with kindness and considerate conduct. I should say the ordinary law carried on steadily and directly; not pushed aside by small influences, but carried steadily on, and administered with temper, and without the appearance of vindictiveness, would be sufficient to maintain order." 531 "When we consider this state of things, and the large proportion of the population which comes under the designation of agricultural labourers, we have to repeat that the patient endurance which they exhibit is deserving of high commendation, and entitles them to the best attention of Government and of Parliament." 532 l., 533 "John Brough, a farmer, at Biddulph, between Tunstall and Congleton, in Staffordshire, has killed his brother Thomas, by beating him on the head with a hammer; he afterwards threw the body into a sand-pit. John Brough held a farm of Thomas; and, being in arrears of rent, the latter threatened to distrain—hence the murder. The principal witness against the criminal was James Brough, another brother to whom he had confessed his guilt. Brough has been committed to prison for trial." ad infinitum. 534 A laugh. 535 536
 MR. FITZGERALD  said, he felt great embarrassment in being obliged to oppose the measure under discussion; but he hoped that the course he was about to pursue would not be misconstrued. He believed it to be his duty to give his vote against the measure; and he wished it to be understood that his doing so should not be attributed to party feelings, as he should be happy to support Her Majesty's Government upon every measure that he believed really calculated to benefit his country. He was willing to give his support to any measure that would have the effect of putting an end to the commission of crime in Ireland; but he could not believe that the measure proposed would do so. One clause of the Bill included the county (Tipperary) that he had the honour to represent. He regretted most sincerely the number of assassinations that had been committed in one riding of that county; but the right hon. Baronet had made a great mistake in not making a difference between the north and south riding of the county, for although the northern riding was in a very disturbed state, and outrage was of frequent occurrence there, in the south riding it was quite the reverse, as the people were all orderly, peaceable, and industrious, and a great many of the inhabitants belonged to the Society of Friends. There were many causes in Ireland tending to embitter the feelings of the peasantry against the aristocracy. There was the difference of religion, and the consciousness that the majority had been misgoverned and severely dealt with, on account of their faith. There was, too, the oppression that had been in many cases practised on them, because of their voting, not on the side of their landlords, but according to their consciences, at elections. When the 40 s. l. 568 Times 569
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  agreed that it would be proper to give the shareholders in new lines a  locus pœnitentiœ, 604 de novo
 MR. BERNAL  said, there could be but one opinion of the value of the measure proposed by the right hon. Baronet, and he only regretted it came so late. At the close of last Session he endeavoured to awaken the attention and enlist the energies of the right hon. Baronet on this point. He endeavoured to point out to the House the gambling, the misery, and the ruin, that would ensue from the prevalent spirit of railway speculation; but his warnings fell upon dead ears. He wished now to see some limit put to the spirit of speculation. The House did not know what cruel proceedings were going on to extort money out of the pockets of those who had put their names, not as shareholders only, or as provisional directors, but as inhabitants of the district favourable to the proposed scheme. The consequence was the ruin of many, and the stagnation of business in every part of the country. Almost every discussion in this House upon railway matters influenced the share market; and the House should, therefore, be cautious, as it might sometimes be doing great injury without intending it. The hon. Member who last addressed the House had expressed himself opposed to a compulsory meeting of the shareholders. It was possible to provide, whether the registered shareholders were to be taken or not, that shareholders at distant points, as, for example, at Edinburgh, Dublin, or Drogheda, should make affidavits and be empowered to vote by proxy. [An hon. MEMBER: It is not possible.] Why was it not possible? Unless this were done, they could arrive at no useful result. He saw an advertisement in the papers of that day of a contest between the shareholders on the one hand, and the directors on the other, in which the directors refused to comply with the request of the shareholders, and said they considered themselves bound in honour, and with reference to the interests of the projected company, to proceed with their application to Parliament. If the
 605
 MR. HODGSON  inquired whether the right hon. Baronet intended his measure to apply to the original shareholders, or to parties in possession of the scrip? The shareholders might have sold their scrip, and the right hon. Baronet could not mean to obtain their assent or dissent. He knew that it was now becoming a common practice for shares to be depreciated on the Stock Exchange for a purpose which was called "speculating for a wind-up." For instance, if a shareholder had paid 3 l. l., l. l. s.
 MR. ELLICE  asked whether the same powers should not be given to the directors, if they thought it not desirable to proceed with their Bill?
 MR. CAREW  said that he rose, as a representative of an Irish constituency, to state the reasons why he thought that the measures of Her Majesty's Government were inefficient, and totally inadequate to attain any desirable result. Had the Government gone down to the House with other measures calculated to improve the condition of the Irish people, they would have had a much stronger case to rely upon than they had at present, when they asked the House to pass the measure then before them. Had they done that, they should have had his support. But the case was very different, when, with the state of Ireland before them—with the appalling destitution, the more than usual misery and wretchedness of the peasantry depicted before them, they took that opportunity of devising a measure, not only unpopular and unconstitutional in its tendency, but utterly inadequate in its principle to attain the desired result. He had hoped that, long before this, the labours of the Land Commission would have been productive of some practical result. But such had been unfortunately hitherto the tenor of their legislation, that they had been invariably too late in the production of their measures, and but too frequently those measures had been inefficient, and ill adapted to the merits and to the exigencies of the case. That some legislation on the state of the relation between landlord and tenant in Ireland was necessary, was, he believed, admitted on all sides; and he apprehended that most, if not all, the crime that afflicted parts of Ireland was attributable to that cause; and that was the opinion of those best calculated to form a sound
 613 "The situation of the ejected tenantry, or of those who are obliged to give up their small holdings, in order to promote the consolidation of farms, is necessarily most deplorable. It would be impossible for language to express the state of distress to which the ejected tenantry have been reduced. They have increased the stock of labour, and, what is perhaps more painful than all, a vast number of them have perished from want." "It would be impossible to describe adequately the privations which they and their families habitually and patiently endure. It will be seen in the evidence that in many districts their only food is the potato, their only beverage water. When we consider this state of things, and the large proportion of the population which come under the designation of agricultural labourers, we have to repeat that the patient endurance they exhibit is deserving of high commendation, and entitles them to the best consideration of Government and of Parliament." 614 "The religion of the Church of Ireland is Puritanism rather than Protestanism. The tone of its clergymen is much in the same key as the voice of dissent in England. They are, in their notions, very unlike their English brethren. Its clergy have zealously opposed the education of the people, and yet a national property is set apart for their exclusive maintenance."
 The O'CONOR DON  observed, that this was a Bill of extreme pains and penalties, and highly restrictive of liberty, no one would deny; that it was a measure which would produce beneficial consequences, no one had attempted to establish; nor had there been any attempt to show that there was any connexion between the Bill itself and the crimes committed in Ireland. An appalling detail of the extent of that crime had been submitted to the House by the right
 615 616 617
 MR. D. BROWNE  stated, that it was matter of congratulation to every Irish representative, and particularly to those whose political opinions were identified with the sentiments of the majority of the people, to witness the calm and moderate tone in which the debate had been conducted, the evident change in the feelings of that House respecting Irish questions, and to see that the dogmatism with which the hon. Gentlemen opposite were wont to discuss Irish questions had been abandoned, and that the sentiments of those in whom the people placed confidence were received with attention and consideration, even by Her Majesty's Ministers. However, it was difficult for an Irish Member to imitate that moderate tone, disposed though he might be to do so; for it would be acknowledged by all, that it was calculated to excite feelings of an irritating nature in the reflection that the Constitution was about to be suspended in Ireland—that the civil and national liberties of the people were about being diminished and disturbed
 620 621 622 meri Hibernici 623 Materia Medica "In 1800 we find the Habeas Corpus Act suspended, and the Act for the Suppression of Rebellion in force. In 1801 they were continued. In 1802, I believe, they expired. In 1803, the insurrection for which Emmet suffered broke out, Lord Kilwardin was murdered by a savage mob, and both Acts of Parliament were renewed. In 1804 they were continued. In 1806 the west and south of Ireland were in a state of insubordination, which was with difficulty suppressed by the severest enforcement of the ordinary law. In 1807, in consequence chiefly of the disorders which had prevailed in 1806, the Act called the Insurrection Act was introduced. It gave power to the Lord Lieutenant to place any district, by proclamation, out of the pale of the ordinary law. It suspended trial by jury, and made it a transportable offence
 624 625 ignis fatuus "He regretted to have to introduce such a Bill"—so far agreeing with the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary. "There were, however, districts in Ireland where such a system of terror and outrage prevailed, as to stop the administration of justice, and suspend the functions of the county magistrates. Sometimes a man was told that a certain rent should be given, and those who dared to give a higher rent were exposed to the dreadful punishment of 'carding,' and at other times such persons incurred the punishment of death." 626 "With respect to the state of Ireland, there was nothing political in the nature of the present disturbances. That was a fact which could not be disputed. The disorders did not arise from discontent connected with popular causes, or from a spirit of hostility to the Government. They had, indeed, no political object in view. Their object appeared to be much deeper in the framework of society. It was impossible not to see that it was not solely directed against certain property, and the lives of the owners of such property." "That the object of the disturbance was to put down all law—to dispose of all property—everything was to be regulated according to the unknown system of some invisible Government to decide how gentlemen were to let their lands, and if they were to let them at all." 627 628 629
 MR. ELLICE  hoped that his hon. Friend would not persist in his Motion, but wait until to-morrow.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  rose and said: I can assure the hon. Member who I perceive has quitted his seat (Mr. D. Browne) that I do not at all sympathize with the perpetrators of those crimes committed in England, of which he has detailed so long a catalogue to the House. But I must, notwithstanding, observe that there is this difference between crimes committed in England, and crimes committed in Ireland, that in England, when a crime is committed, the sympathy of the people does not go along with the criminal; whilst the crime against the commission of which we are now called upon to provide, is of a nature with which the people of Ireland—the population, at least, of five counties—have shown too great sympathy. It was because of the difficulty of detecting the authors of these crimes, and the difficulty of bringing them to justice, that Her Majesty, in Her Speech from the Throne,
 643 644 l. l. 645 646 647 648 649
 MR. RUTHERFURD  suggested that, pending the adopting of the measure to which the right hon. Baronet had referred, it was desirable for the House to obviate the evils to which allusion had been made, by passing a Resolution not to proceed further with any Railway Bills now before them, if petitions were presented to the House, signed by a majority of scripholders in number and value, praying them not to sanction such Bills. What difficulty would there be in Parliament saying, if petitions of that kind were presented, "We will not proceed further with these Bills at present." By such a course they would not interfere at all with the liability of the parties. The House would, of course, take means to ascertain the authenticity of the signatures to such petitions, and would be satisfied before acceding to them, that they truly expressed the wishes of a majority of the scripholders in numbers and value. It must be remembered, however, that many of the persons who were now scripholders were not the original subscribers to railway projects; and
 608
 MR. ADDERLEY  having moved the Second Reading of the Sheffield, Buxton, Leek, Potteries, and Crewe Railway Bill,
 Mr. C. BULLER  would like to know by what arrangement the right hon. Baronet proposed to ascertain the validity of the signatures to such petitions. He considered it most desirable that something should be done in this matter before the recess; some decided intimation on the part of the House, so that parties might employ the recess in taking measures accordingly. It would be well if the House adopted the views of the right hon. Baronet, to appoint, after the recess, a Committee, to which all petitions against proceeding with particular schemes should be referred, which should thereupon determine whether the respective schemes should proceed to Select Committees. Suppose, by way of beginning at once, the hon. Gentleman who had moved the second reading of the Bill before the House (The Buxton Leet Potteries and Crewe Railway Bill) were to consent to the second reading being postponed, until it were ascertained whether the majority of the shareholders were favourable to its going on.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the question which the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool had brought before the House was of the utmost importance, and one upon which the attention of the mercantile, manufacturing, and other interests was, at the present moment, fixed with the greatest anxiety. He was glad to find that the Government had now taken it into their serious consideration. He had never varied from the opinion which he expressed at the beginning of the Session on the appointment of the Committee, that any proposition with regard to this question ought to proceed from the Government—that it could not properly emanate from any Committee except upon the proposal and under the guidance of the Government; and he was sure that the right hon. Baronet the Vice President of the Board of Trade would agree in the accuracy of what he now stated. When the Committee first met, he was disappointed to find that all that the Government did was to present them with a list of the railway schemes under six different heads; but when the Committee came to consider them, they found them in so confused a state that it
 599 600
 MR. J. O'BRIEN  moved that the debate be adjourned.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  moved that the debate be adjourned.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, that the Government had made a great mistake, and had embarrassed themselves by bringing on this Coercion Bill before their own Corn Bill was passed, which a great number of the Irish Members were equally anxious with the right hon. Baronet to see carried. The Coercion Bill was not only inefficacious for its professed object, but would increase the horrible and execrable outrages it purported to put down, and would preclude all chance of the Irish people feeling any gratitude for the sympathy which he readily acknowledged had been shown for them in that House during the present Session. This Coercion Bill would not only destroy that feeling of gratitude, but would render almost irreconcilable the differences between the two countries; and he looked forward to results of the most disastrous nature to the connexion between England and Ireland. They were now in the seventh century of that connexion; and, during the whole of that time, the Irish people could not point to any period when the connexion had been fraught with anything but mischief and oppression to them. Surely it was time that this should be changed. The Repealers were most attached to the connexion
 611
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  wished to offer a suggestion—which certainly had no immeate connexion with the question now before them—with reference to Irish railways. That House had shown a strong desire to facilitate the progress of Irish Railway Bills, with a view to afford relief to the destitute poor of that country. He must say, however, that although Bills for several railways in Ireland, which had promised extensive employment to the poor, had been sanctioned by Parliament, not a single stroke of work had yet been done towards their commencement. He wished, therefore, to suggest for the consideration of hon. Members during the recess, whether it might not be advisable, when Irish Railway Bills were brought forward, to introduce some clause rendering the completion of the works within a given and limited time compulsory, on pain of the dissolution of the companies.
 COLONEL RAWDON  said, that if the Government pressed the reading of this Order of the Day, he should propose as an Amendment, that it be read that day three months. [The SPEAKER intimated that such a Motion would be irregular.] The hon. and gallant Member then moved, that the other Orders of the Day be now read.
 MR. RICARDO  said, there was one practical difficulty against which he had no doubt the right hon. Baronet would take means to guard. As the shares were not registered, there might be great difficulty in ascertaining whether the persons who signed petitions were real  bonâ fide
 MR. W. PATTEN  said, that the measure now proposed would not give the power of dissolving the company by a vote of the shareholders, and there was another difficulty in the case. A great many of these Bills were now under the consideration of the House, and others were before the Committees, and an enormous amount of expense had been incurred without the shareholders having
 602
 MR. P. M. STEWART  said, the Government measure was a very different thing from that shadowed forth at the commencement of the Session, when it was proposed they should limit the amount of capital to be invested in these undertakings. The present was in his opinion a much wiser proceeding, for no parties could be offended by it, and all might be relieved The only thing he would suggest was, that it should be compulsory upon the scripholders to meet and express their opinion at a certain stage of the Bill, say before the third reading, whether it would be desirable to take any further proceedings upon it. So many obstacles might be thrown in the way, that if the Legislature left it merely optional with the scripholders to meet, they might be thwarted in their intentions. It could not be said to be an arbitrary proposal that they should be asked for their renewed opinion upon the propriety of proceeding with their undertaking. If it were a good scheme the scripholders would be desirous to go on; but if not, and four out of five were of that character, they would withdraw the Bill, and Parliament would
 603
 MR. P. SCROPE : I must own, Sir, that I deeply regret the party and political tone that has been given to this debate by the speeches of several hon. Members on both sides of the House—a tone for which certainly neither the right hon. Baronet who introduced the measure, nor the hon. and learned Member who proposed the Amendment, are at all responsible. Both these hon. Members declared their opinion—an opinion in which I strongly concur—that the horrible crimes, the occurrence of which in Ireland forms the ground of the measure proposed to us, are totally unconnected with either political or religious feelings, and consequently with party politics. I, Sir, myself, have always been convinced that politics had nothing to do with agrarian offences; and when the former Coercion Bills of 1833 and 1834 were introduced, and the Marquess Wellesley's despatch asserted the connexion of agrarian outrage and political agitation, I declared my dissent from that doctrine, and my belief that the system of agrarian intimidation had its rise exclusively in social and physical, not at all in political grievances. Sir, Ireland has her political and
 634 635 636 "Two of the Commissioners had a conversation near Cashel with a man who had been turned out of his farm for getting into arrear, owing to an exorbitant rent. We said, 'The farm was still unlet.' He said, 'Of course, no one dare take it until they get my goodwill of it.' The Commissioners then asked him, 'What feeling he would entertain against any man who should take it?' His reply was, 'To be sure I should have a bad feeling to him—and why should I not? The devil a much of bread he would eat after it any way, as I would die to have his life, or that of any one like him, that would step in to take the bread out of my wife's and children's mouths.' They then asked him, 'With what feelings would the peasantry look on the family of a man who was hanged for murder under such circumstances?' His reply was, 'Why his wife and family would be regarded; and why not? I would take the bit out of my own mouth, and my wife's and children's, before I would see his poor things want it, because, did'nt he die in the cause, and lose his life for the good of the people? And I'll tell you what's more, gentlemen, that though the people may fault and abuse the Whitefeet, and boys that go round at night with the black faces, that only for them the whole country would be in a rising—the poor would have no protection at all. The landlords would hunt them out like rats from a cornstack, without any mercy, only they know the ground would be left on their hands, as any man that would take it knows his
 637 i. e. 638 639 l. 640 "Yet is it still dreamed of that coercion and courts martial, more insurrection acts, and the entrusting further unconstitutional powers to Government, will put down this organized resistance of an entire people to the law by which they feel themselves oppressed, not protected? Why even if it were possible, by camping a regiment in every field, and a park of artillery in every village, to repress all demonstration of this feeling, would this be the rational, the wise, the statesmanlike, the honest, the humane, the just course to adopt? You cannot, if you would, succeed in this. You cannot enable the landlords of Ireland to exterminate their peasantry with ease and impunity. I thank God, who planted in the human heart the spirit which revolts against oppression when carried to extremity, that you cannot. The millions are too strong for you. And it only remains for you to choose whether you will let the present state of things continue yet a little longer, till some casual spark create the explosion for which all is so rife, and Ireland be lost to Britain by civil war and foreign attachment; or, warned by the fearful presages of these critical times, you will step in (I speak to the Government and Legislature of the United Kingdom) to pour oil on the troubled surface of Irish society, and, by one act of bare justice to the long trampled peasantry of Ireland, rescue them from the necessity in which they are now placed of vindicating their own wrongs and protecting their own rights—and reconcile them to the law and the Imperial Legislature, by making them feel its beneficial support. Call it not a poor law, call it an employment law, or any other name that may be more to your taste; but as the only means of saving Ireland, and putting down its agrarian warfare, some law must be passed, securing a subsistance to the Irish peasant in return for his honest industry—offering him, either land on which he may live, or work and wages, whereby he may live. He asks but this:—
 "He asks a brother of the earth To give him leave to toil." Less than this he cannot ask. Refuse this, and you must continue to wage an endless and perilous warfare with him—a war to the knife. He fights for his existence?" 641 642
 MR. M. MILNES  thought the House should confine its attention to the matter immediately under its consideration, rather than embark on the great sea of a general Irish question; more particularly as the case under consideration had been brought forward as a peculiar and especial one. He considered it a satisfaction to every English and Irish man in the House, that the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, had drawn a distinct line as to the special nature of his case, which he represented as applicable for a peculiar emergency, and carefully separated it by very broad lines from the great questions respecting Irish legislation, which had so frequently been before the House. Indeed, it was impossible for any person to have paid attention to the right hon. Baronet's remarks without perceiving that the present was a temporary measure of prevention, and that in their consideration it was to be regarded as such. It had been maintained by hon. Members opposite, that the House ought not to consider the present Bill without also considering the propriety of introducing large and general remedial measures; but he would suggest whether they were not giving this measure an undue importance, as if it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to interfere in any way with the liberty of the subject more than absolutely necessary for the protection of life and property. He must say that he did not think that any of those Gentlemen could be so sanguine of the success of any remedial measure, or imagine that they could at once be effectual in stopping that frightful system of assassination (for he did not see why they should blink that word) without accompanying it by some strong immediate police regulation. For it was clear that when society had fallen into such a state as to be productive of outrages of the description they had heard, any measures directed to the remedy of the evil ought to be accompanied by some strong coercive measure. He did believe Her Majesty's Government were not unwilling to receive from hon. Members opposite any suggestion that would under this Bill be more practically useful for carrying out its immediate object. In the progress of that Bill through the other House the greatest unanimity prevailed as to the desirableness of the measure. Since he had had the honour of a seat in the House, he had felt very deeply on the subject
 618 619
 MR. W. COLLETT  was glad the right hon. Baronet had drawn the line between the original shareholders and the holders of scrip, and had proposed to take the opinion of the latter. He considered that some clause ought to be introduced to indemnify persons who had signed the deeds, after the just claims of the creditors were paid, against any further responsibility, so that the original subscribers might be secured from the annoyance to which in many cases they had been subjected.
 MR. W. S. O'BRIEN  felt deeply the inconvenience which the country suffered from the course taken, not by the Irish Bill to proceed to-morrow. He had no wish to interfere with the due discussion of the measure; but he believed that the Irish Members, but by the right hon. Baronet, who had the conduct of these Bills, and who might, if he had chosen, on Friday last, have moved the adjournment of the debate on the Coercion Bill till after
 610 pari passu
 MR. F. T. BARING  said, he concurred with the hon. Member who had just spoken in thinking that the present proposal of the Government was much wiser than a measure to restrict the amount of capital to be invested in railways, such as had been talked of at the opening of the Session. He was one of the Committee appointed on this subject, after the speech of the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel); and it was expected that some scheme for limiting the amount of capital embarked in railway speculations would be proposed to the Committee. But no such scheme was suggested; and he should have objected to any measure of that kind unless some good reason could have been adduced for such an interference. But for this very reason he now advocated the plan proposed by the right hon. Baronet. He thought the House was bound to give facilities to parties for reviewing their judgments, and he considered the proposal of the right hon. Baronet a very proper one. If he understood the Bill, it was intended that the House should wait for the third reading of any Railway Bill, before it gave its decision; but there was no reason why parties should be dragged through all the previous expenses of the Committees, and some means of stopping the proceedings at an earlier stage than the third reading would be, he hoped, devised.
 SIR G. CLERK  said, it was perfectly true that there was no formal scheme proposed to the Committee, having for its object the amount of capital which it might be considered expedient to direct in any one Session to railways. He had stated, on the appointment of the Committee, that owing to the immense number of schemes deposited with the Board of Trade, it appeared to the Government that it might be necessary that some means should be taken to limit the number of railway schemes to be passed this Session; but at the time the Committee made their final report, the case presented a very different aspect from that which it bore in December last; and he felt that nothing but a case of the extremest necessity could justify interference on the part of the House; and that any such interference, unless recommended by the unanimous assent of the Committee, would have a most prejudicial effect. Now, however, the case stood in a very different position. They found, that in different parts of the country, persons had, in the course of last autumn, rashly embarked in these
 601
 MR. WARD  thought that the right hon. Baronet was in the first instance exceedingly wise in abstaining from any direct interference in this matter; and that he was exceedingly wise now in opening a retreat to those who were engaged in railway schemes that were not likely to be of public advantage; and, with all deference to his right hon. Friend (Mr. Labouchere), he considered it was perfectly immaterial, in the present state of the public mind, whether they gave the majority of the shareholders an opportunity of applying to that House, and requesting them to withhold their assent, or refused to pass the Bills, unless the shareholders said they were desirous that they should be passed. It was desirable that facilities should be given to shareholders to free themselves from those schemes, and this was the only way in which an honourable retreat could be provided. His hon. Friend had spoken of provisional directors. As to that most unhappy class, he did not think that one of them would be alive three years hence. They had involved themselves in liabilities without the least knowledge of what they were about. He thought the plan of the right hon. Baronet would have a most beneficial effect for those who were engaged in these railway schemes, as well as upon those who were not connected with them.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  moved the Order of the Day for resuming the Adjourned Debate on the Protection of Life (Ireland) Bill.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he did not know whether there was any probability of coming to a division to-night on the first reading of this Bill; but, supposing that the House did not come to a division that night, he would make an earnest appeal to those who had notices on the Paper for to-morrow, to allow the debate on the Irish Bill to proceed to-morrow. He had no wish to interfere with the due discussion of the measure; but he believed that the Irish Members, if they permitted the House to proceed with the Corn Bill, by concluding the discussion on the Irish Bill, would be rendering an essential service to their country.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that the course mentioned by the hon. Member would be perfectly compatible with allowing the Irish Bill to be read a first time; for on the subsequent stages the hon. Gentleman and others would have a full opportunity of stating their views.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, the directors might part with their interest in the undertaking, and might have agreed to lease or sell the concern to some other line. It would therefore be undesirable to give them alone the power without consulting with the shareholders.
 SIR R. PEEL : "I do profess to be wholly unacquainted with the mysteries of this business. [ A laugh. 606 Gazette, locus pœnitentiœ; l., l. 607 Gazette,
 SIR R. PEEL  did not wish to provoke a recriminatory discussion. This was a day on which the Government might bring on such measures as it thought fit, and the House met on the full understanding that the Irish Bill would be proceeded with; he hoped that would now be allowed to be done.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that he saw that it was useless to persist; he therefore would consent to the adjournment. He would adjourn until to-morrow, and if it did not then come on he would then name the time to which it should be postponed.
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, I think every person in this House witnessed the extent of railway speculation which took place last winter and the preceding autumn with great regret. We then saw railroads proposed not for any legitimate purpose of speculation, and not for the purpose of constructing works of public utility in the vicinity of those who were engaged in the speculation, but in a fit of one of those speculative fevers, from which the country has in many instances suffered so severely. We have before seen investments made in South American Bonds, and various speculations of the kind; and I should have thought
 594 595 596 l.; l. l. l. 597 l. l., 598
 SIR R. PEEL  had already stated that he should postpone the debate till next day, not in the hope, however, that he should be able to bring it on, but he then should be able to announce as to what day they should adjourn for the Easter holidays, and he would also state on what day this debate could he resumed. He trusted that the House would support him in what he proposed, in order that he might name a day after Easter on which to proceed with the debate. If the House chose to adopt the proposition of the hon. Baronet, be it so. He knew well the power of a minority in that House to protract the debate, but he was not resposible for the delay. He was willing to give every fair opportunity of discussion, but he would not give way to the proposition of the hon. Baronet.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that he should make one more attempt to induce the Government to give way, and postpone the farther debate on this Bill until after the third reading of the Corn Importation Bill. It was quite clear, from the tone of the debate, that his hon. Friends around him would not relinquish their right to precedence on the Motion, for the sake of this Bill. They would not only postpone this Bill until after Easter, but also the Corn Bill; and if this Bill was passed immediately after Easter, his hon. Friends had equal power, if they chose to exercise it, of preventing its coming on on any but Government nights. The discussion might, therefore, last four, five, or six nights. The discussion on the Corn Bill must also
 651
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  did not think that his conduct called for the remarks of the right hon. Baronet. He denied that he had any wish to consume time in protracted debates. All that he wished was to save time. The right hon. Baronet said that to-morrow he would announce the course he meant to pursue. Now, he hoped that the right hon. Baronet would in the meantime, on reflection, adopt the course which he suggested. He would then withdraw his Amendment in conformity with the feeling of the House, and would bring it forward again to-morrow if he was not satisfied.—Amendment withdrawn.
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  wished to read one sentence from a letter which he had received from the member of a firm in Yorkshire largely concerned in business. It did not bear specially on the Irish Bill, but upon the mode in which the two measures—the Corn Bill and the Irish Bill—were interlaced together. The letter stated, that owing to the delay in passing the Government commercial measures, the depression of all branches of trade was extreme, and that in consequence the operatives and their families were severely affected, and multitudes of industrious persons were in such a state of destitution that were it not for charity they must perish from famine. The letter added, that Lancashire presented a similar aspect. He did not wish to enter into a debate as to which measure should have priority of consideration; but the statements in that letter induced him to hope, not certainly that ample means should not be allowed for the discussion of the Irish Bill, but that no more time would be expended on a preliminary stage of the measure than was compatible with that object. He wished to know whether the right hon. Baronet was ready to inform the House when he proposed that the House should meet after Easter.
 VISCOUNT MORPETH : Though I have almost less than any of those around me shared in the late discussions on the subject before the House, yet the frequent and active part I was formerly called on to take in a public and official capacity connected with Ireland, will, I hope, serve as an excuse for my intrusion for a short period on this debate. I say for a short period, for many reasons. On the general political views applicable to Ireland, I have no wish to add anything to what was so forcibly stated the other night by my noble Friend the Member for the city of London. In the next place, the present state of the public business (which I have already had an opportunity of referring to this evening) makes me wish to avoid any course which may unnecessarily protract the farther progress of the measures now before the House; but most of all—and it is the main reason which induces me to speak at all — because my previous experience in the administration of Irish affairs makes me feel considerable caution and diffidence in all I might wish to offer to the consideration of the House. From my own recollection of what I experienced, I am too sensible of the great difficulties of those who have to administer the Government, ever to wish lightly, or without the gravest reasons, to obstruct or embarrass those now charged with the same responsibilities; and, further, my vivid impression of the anxiety with which any unusual case of outrage, or of any added insecurity to property or life, falls on the person on whom the duty devolves of counteracting, and, if possible, preventing such occurrences, would make me naturally shrink from impeding measures which the Executive authority at any time may bring forward, backed by the evidence of facts stated on the responsibility of the Government. I cannot efface from my memory the recollection which such a murder as that of the late Lord Norbury excited in my mind. I do not allude to that occurrence as if the rank of the murdered person ought to produce any difference of sympathy, but because it happened to be, while I held office, among the first of that unaccountable
 630 631 632 633
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  considered that the measure suggested by the right hon. Baronet was a most proper and prudent one; for there was a strong desire on the part of many scripholders to get rid of their present liabilities.
 VISCOUNT SANDON  thought the best course for the House would be to adopt without delay the suggestion of the hon.
 609
 VISCOUNT SANDON  said: Sir, I gave notice on Friday last that I would, at an early hour this evening, ask a question of the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government, relating to the advice which he may be inclined to give to Parliament as to the manner of treating Railway Bills, with the view of postponing the passing of any considerable number this Session. The Motion of my hon. Friend will, however, perhaps, furnish a more convenient opportunity for raising that question. There is no doubt, Sir, that the state of things is this. It cannot be doubted that the present condition of the money market is very different from what it was when these companies first came forward, and there is now a great desire on the part of those who have embarked in these projects to withdraw from them; but, notwithstanding this desire, it is a question whether, by the rules of Parliament, and by the law as it now stands, they are enabled to fulfil their wishes. This, Sir, is a question in which all parties in this country are deeply interested. It is not only of importance to the
 591 "We have still to repeat our former reports of a languid business, and of an uneasy feeling in the mercantile world, as a consequence of the late excessive railroad speculation, and from the dread of the serious effects which must arise if the numerous projects for the further construction of railroads, which are now seeking the sanction of the Legislature, be persevered in. It is easily to be understood, that if the railroads now in the course of construction will require about 20,000,000 l. l. 592 "The various branches of commerce are severely depressed; there is not only a continual fall in prices, but great difficulty in realizing goods at any sacrifice. The India and China trade is particularly suffering. Tea, indigo, silk, cotton, &c., forming the principal imports from thence, have all been reduced to a scale of prices unusually low. In the manufacturing districts stocks of goods are accumulating, and a general absence of all enterprise in trade is evident. Several causes might be instanced as having tended to bring about this stagnation; but a principal one unquestionably is the enormous amount of railway undertakings, which are gradually absorbing a large portion of the capital of the country hitherto devoted to trading purposes. This evil is already very severe; but if it be increased by the success of many of the numerous projects now before Parliament, the inevitable embarrassment which must ensue can hardly be magnified. Public attention has recently become more awakened to this important subject; and Government has been urgently called upon to interpose by an unflinching determination to defer for a time most of the schemes now before Parliament. It has been urged, however, that the subscribers themselves have the power of withdrawing the undertakings if they find them beyond their means, and this is certainly true; but although many would gladly exercise the power, it would be difficult to procure a general consent to do so, while a Parliamentary interference to relieve what is now admitted to be a serious impending difficulty, would be hailed with universal satisfaction. The little progress made with the important measures now before Parliament excites much anxiety, and aggravates the depression under which trade lingers. Almost any decision would be better than suspense; and when it is considered that the extent of the commerce of the year is materially dependent upon the early commencement of operations, it will be seen how detrimental that state of uncertainty is which interrupts the spring trade." 593
 MR. HENRY FITZROY  was understood to reply, that the Admiralty had not yet finally decided as to the course which should be taken, but a decision would be formed with as little delay as possible.
 LORD WORSLEY  rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department when the public general Bill for "the inclosure of those waste lands which the Inclosure Commissioners for England and Wales have certified, in their annual Report, to be expedient, but which may not be further proceeded with without the authority of Parliament, will be presented to the House; and also whether the said Commissioners will be instructed to report specially, at a later period of this Session, upon such applications for inclosure as have been received by them since the date of their annual Report; and if so, whether a second public general Bill will then be presented to the House, with a view to avoid delay; and also what restrictions, if any, are contemplated to the introduction of private Inclosure Bills, with a view to an efficient and inexpensive protection of the interests of those commoners who, by petitions to this House, allege that there are not any circumstances so special in themselves as to render the provisions of the General Inclosure Act inapplicable in whole or part to such inclosures?"
 LORD GRANVILLE SOMERSET , in rising to move the Resolution of which he had given notice, begged to say that he had somewhat altered it from its original form. With regard to the spirit by which he was actuated in bringing it forward, he should say that he wished to show neither favour nor affection to any party. In fact, he knew nothing whatever of the parties who would be affected by it. The great object was to give time and opportunity to such subscribers to railway companies as might be undecided regarding the course they ought to pursue, to consider whether
 669 "That all proceedings on Railway Bills in Committees, and in the House, after Thursday next, be postponed until Monday, the 27th day of this instant April."
 LORD HARRY VANE  had no objection to the Motion on general grounds, but there were certain cases which he thought should be excepted from its operation—those in which the proceedings before the Committees on Groups had been brought nearly to a termination, but which could probably not be quite terminated by Thursday. The Committee to which he belonged had nearly terminated the business before it, and it would be very inconvenient to have their proceedings stopped in such a summary manner.
 MR. BAILIE COCHRANE  wished to know from the hon. the First Lord of the Treasury, whether there would be any objection to lay on the Table the instructions to Sir E. Lyons with respect to the Greek loan. He wished to call the attention of the House to the declaration recently made by the Minister of Finance in Greece, that all interested in the loan should know what they might expect. The Minister for Finance, in addressing the Chamber of Deputies in Greece, said, that he had come
 675
 MR. E. DENISON  said, it might be in the recollection of hon. Members that towards the close of last Session, he had brought under the attention of the House a point connected with the management of the Ecclesiastical Commission for Ireland, which he had thought required the consideration of Government—namely, that the Ecclesiastical Commissioners had the power of selling the Church lands. He conceived that the capital derived from the sale of those lands ought to be invested in the funds, and the interest accruing thereon disposed of by the Commissioners, and not the capital itself. He regretted to say that the Ecclesiastical Commissioners had taken a different view; and up to the 1st
 674 l.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  did not think the objection of the noble Lord (Lord
 670
 MR. HUME  called the attention of the House to the consideration of the best possible means for lessening the labour and expense attendant on Private Bills, and for preventing, what he was sorry to say too frequently occurred, the sacrifice of the public interests. He did so on several grounds. But the Sanatory Committee had, in their second Report, embodied all the principles for which he had been contending for some years. They stated in that Report that, as matters had hitherto been arranged, there had been one Bill brought in for the construction of waterworks, one Bill for paving, one Bill for lighting, and one Bill for effecting other improvements—in short, a variety of Bills were brought in for one and the same locality, which had led to great expense to the public, whilst the interests of the public were not properly represented in the passage of such Bills through Parliament. By the Papers which he had moved for, it would appear that in the Session of 1844 there were forty-seven Bills before Parliament, consisting of paving, lighting, police, waterworks, docks, harbours, piers, and market Bills; that in 1845 there were seventy-two such Bills; and that this year there were no less than 134. Notwithstanding the Report of the Sanatory Committee, and the pledge which the Government had given to introduce a Bill for the purpose of carrying out the recommendation of that Committee, there were more waterworks Bills this year than had ever previously been known. He contended that none of those Bills should receive the sanction of Parliament until a Commissioner had been
 671 "That a Select Committee be appointed to examine the applications for Local Acts during this Session of Parliament; to examine especially in respect to the Bills for the erection of new Waterworks, Drainage, and Paving and Improvements, according to the recommendations made by the Commissioners of Inquiry into the means of improving the Health of Towns and densely populated districts, and ascertain how far the principle of their recommendations may be carried out in relation to the Bills proposed, and whether any and what measures may be recommended for adoption by the House thereon."
 MR. WYSE  said, in undertaking to bring forward the Motion, of which he had given notice, for a Select Committee to inquire into the present state of legal education in Ireland, and the means for its further improvement and extension, he wished that he could say that he had those qualifications which would entitle him to demand the attention of the House. He wished that he had either the ability or the experience of the professional man, or that he could boast of being acquainted with the general wishes of the profession, so as to enable him to speak with, some degree of authority in introducing the subject to the House. But the disadvantages under which he laboured in this respect were, he flattered himself, counterbalanced by advantages on the other side. He believed that he stood there unaffected by any partiality towards any particular system, and that he could not be accused as a party wishing either to invade or to preserve ancient, but at the same time antiquated
 678 "In addition to the academical and collegiate institutions already noticed, your Committee feel the advantages arising from establishments for the full cultivation of those strictly professional studies for which preparation only has been made in the above-mentioned schools;" and also "the present deficiency of institutions for the regular study of law is generally admitted." 679 680 681 droit administratif, 682 "The country," say the Resolutions, "is deeply interested in the character, the independence, and influence, of the advocates to whom the defence of their property and liberties may be intrusted; and it would be vain to hope that the independence and character of the bar can be maintained, if the study of law is not conducted on an enlightened and philosophical plan. The great extension of
 683 demurrant resiant "That the lawyers who practised before him were grossly ignorant of the civil law, and the principles of general jurisprudence; and to remedy an evil which troubled the stream of justice at the fountain-head, he, with his usual magnificence of conception, projected an institution, to be founded in London, for the systematic study of all branches of the law. He even furnished an architectural model of the building, which was considered a masterpiece, and remained long after his death as a curiosity in the palace at Greenwich. Such an institution (adds the noble and learned Lord, a Member of the other House, from whose writings I quote) is still a desideratum in England; for, with splendid exceptions, it must be admitted that English barristers, though very clever practitioners, are not such able jurists as are to be found in other countries, where law is systematically studied as a science." 684 "That moots and other exercises of learning be a condition for admission, and also for a continuance as either barrister or pleader." "Would be almost an utter overthrow to the learning and study of the law, and, consequently, an intolerable mischief to the commonwealth of this realm." "Is very glad to perceive that Ireland at least is likely, in the Dublin Law Institute, to have a prudent and careful guide to the studies and talents of her rising bar. On that body, to which ultimately must come, at some future time, the administration of her laws, much of the future happiness of their beloved country will depend." 685 "The Lord Justice Clerk, when dean of faculty, had many projects of attempting to institute some similar society at the Scotch bar to that in Ireland, the Dublin Law Institute, very much, in order to bring the minds of the junior and senior members of the bar more into contact in the discussion and consideration of legal points. The difficulties, however, were great—some peculiar to our profession as conducted in Scotland. He cannot but think the commencement of such a thing in Dublin so very admirable and excellent, that he hopes it may be continued and encouraged. He cannot hardly conceive any object more deserving the personal attention of the many accomplished leaders of the Irish Bar." "Have also adverted to the acknowledged deficiency which has long been felt to exist in the education of English lawyers, in consequence of their entire neglect of the study of jurisprudence and the civil law, although in all places where law has been or is taught as a science, these subjects have uniformly formed the first and one of the most essential parts of legal education." 686 honorarium 687 l. ex officio 688 l., l. 689 690 "Justice, Sir, is the great interest of man on earth. It is the ligament which holds civilized nations together. Wherever her temple stands, and as long as it is duly honoured, there is a foundation for social security, general happiness, and the improvement and general progress of our race. And whoever labours in this edifice with usefulness and distinction, whoever clears its foundations, strengthens its pillars, adorn its entablatures,
 691 fons et origo legum
 SIR C. NAPIER  wished to ask one of the Lords of the Admiralty a question respecting a retired list of naval officers. About eight months ago, an announcement was made that it was proposed to make a retired list for officers in the navy, and 30,000 l.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, the hon. Gentleman, in putting his question, had referred to the Correspondence which he had had the honour of laying on the Table of the House, towards the close of last Session, which had taken place between the Lord Lieutenant and the Ecclesiastical Commissioners of Ireland. From that correspondence it would appear what was the opinion of the Government with respect to the right construction of the Act to which the hon. Gentleman had referred. The Lord Lieutenant had expressed in very strong terms to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, that it was inexpedient to expend the capital arising from the sale of the property, but that it ought to be be invested, and the interest accruing on it only expended. Since that correspondence, a further communication had taken place between the Chief Secretary for Ireland and the Ecclesiastical Commissioners; and he was happy to inform the hon. Member, that in the course of the present year the Commissioners had announced their intention of confining the expenditure to the interest only, and that they would would not expend the capital. More than that, the Ecclesiastical Commission were in debt some 60,000 l.; l.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  would not detain the House more than a minute. He merely wished to state that he quite agreed with the hon. Member for Montrose, that great public interests were involved in the question he had introduced. Last year, with reference to Enclosure Bills, the Legislature had adopted a principle which had been found to be most advantageous. They
 672
 Sin J. GRAHAM  said, that he had obtained
 676
 SIR JOHN EASTHOPE  said, that after having carefully considered the whole case, he thought it better that the entire business should stand over as proposed by the noble Lord (Lord Granville Somerset). If any exception were made, it ought to be only in favour of the extensions of the great trunk lines.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  would at once state, on the part of the Government, the course which he proposed to pursue with respect to the public business. He did so when the House was full, and when a greater number of Gentlemen were present than probably would be the case at the subsequent part of the evening. He mentioned it also now on the chance that some amicable arrangement might then take place as to the progress of public business; finding that it was most desirable that a fixed time should be appointed when the sense of the House could be taken on the important questions before it. He did not think that under any circumstances at present it could have been his duty to propose any other adjournment than for the shortest period that was usually taken at Easter. No one looked with more joy towards an adjournment than he did; and he had intended to have proposed that it should take place from Thursday to Monday week next; but he now did not think it proper, in the present state of public business, to propose such an adjournment. The loss of one of those days which Government took for public business could not be well borne. He, therefore, should propose that the House should adjourn from Thursday next, to the Friday in the following week; and on that day he should propose, as the first business, to resume the debate on the Protection
 677
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that at any rate one thing might be said, namely, that the most frank and candid Chancellor of the Exchequer in Europe was to be met with in Greece. As for the interest of the debt, he had never been very sanguine on the subject. He proposed to lay on the Table of the House a statement as to the failure in making provision for the payment of the interest of the debt, and also the communications from Her Majesty's Government to the English Minister in Greece, and the answer received from the Government of that country. When those Papers were furnished, the House would see what was the state of our relations with that country.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, that the right hon. Gentleman having referred to him, he would take the opportunity of saying, that he rejoiced the subject had been brought under the notice of Parliament. The course now indicated by the Government had been taken by them perhaps somewhat later than it ought; but now that they had entered upon it, he hoped the principle it comprised would be extended so as to lead to a general system of legislation with respect to all those matters
 673
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  wished, with the least possible delay, to put an end to all uncertainty upon the point. It was thought highly desirable that every facility should be given to building societies in the purchase of small tenements; and the House had therefore exempted their share certificates and transfers from any stamp duties; but it was not intended to establish any exemption in favour of the conveyances of land which might be effected by or to them, because the expenses of conveyances were shared by many in the case of a society, and paid by individuals in other cases; therefore the costs of conveyances were scarcely felt by those societies, whereas the exemption of their shares from stamp duties was a great boon.
 MR. HAWES  could bear testimony to the fact that the settlement of the Corn Bill was of great importance to the commercial classes. The railway speculations of the last autumn were pressing on the owners of small concerns, who were decreasing their business, and many labourers therefore were without employment. With regard to the Irish Coercion Bill, he earnestly requested his hon. Friends to consider how far they could think it consistent with their public duty to allow the debate on the first reading to be shortened. He was equally opposed to the Bill with them: he meant, with them, to oppose it. He did not think that the Government had made out a case for it; and he believed that all Coercion Bills had failed. He hoped, however, when all the commercial interests of England were in a state of stagnation and difficulty, if his hon. Friends could deem it consistent with their public duty, they would curtail the debate and allow the first reading to be got over, that they might go into Committee on the Corn Bill, which was a measure for the benefit of both countries. He really thought such a course would entitle his hon. Friends to the respect and regard of the nation, and that they would not forfeit the deserved confidence of the people ot Ireland. He assured them that the deepest anxiety and gloom pervaded the trade of the United Kingdom at this moment, and would produce the most serious results, unless some arrangement could be made under which the House could proceed with the Corn Bill.
 MR. C. POWELL  was as anxious to promote the commercial freedom of England as he was to obstruct the political servitude of his own country. He thought that the Irish Members, though a small number in that House, were justified in availing themselves of every constitutional means to stop the Coercion Bill; for, though they were a small minority in that House, they were backed by 7,000,000 in Ireland. All they wanted was, to state to the country and to record their justification for rejecting the measures of the Government.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he fully agreed with the hon. Members who had just sat down. He gave the Irish Members all credit for the open, manly, and straightforward, and he would also say the consistent manner in which they had opposed the Coercion Bill. He wished the present measure of Her Majesty's Government was one calculated to conciliate the people of Ireland. He wished to see the people of that country prosperous, and he was compelled to say that the measures brought forward for the last twenty years in that House were not calculated to promote the welfare of that country. The Government should introduce a measure that by its beneficial results would restore peace and plenty to the peasantry of Ireland. Such a measure would always meet with his (Col. Sibthorp's) concurrence and hearty support, for he considered it would be more adapted to the condition of the country than the Coercion Act proposed by Her Majesty's Ministers.
 MR. FINCH  thought the statement of the right hon. Baronet threw some imputation on hon. Members on both sides of the House, and was made on the presumption that the Corn Bill was likely to pass, whereas that was very doubtful, and it was more likely that it would not. He agreed with the hon. Member (Mr. S. O'Brien) that the best course would be to bring in a Bill for the purpose of liberating Indian corn, and any quantity of wheat which the necessities of the season required.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he would take the opportunity of calling the attention of the First Lord of the Treasury to an important point upon which it was desirable the House should know the intentions of the Government before it separated. He referred to the proceedings about to be taken with respect to the railway business of the country, in conformity with the announcement of the right hon. Baronet on Monday night. The House was going to separate without a Bill being introduced into Parliament, and parties who might wish to take advantage of the facilities proposed to be given them, and to withdraw from railway schemes, ought to know during the recess what course they ought to take. But, unless directions were given to them, they would be at a loss to know how to proceed, and the in-
 701
 MR. P. SCROPE  could understand the Government, being desirous of introducing this measure as early as possible, if they thought it would prevent crimes in Ireland; but the moment they ascertained that on the first reading there would be a discussion on the principle, it must have been clear to them that there would be a lengthened discussion upon the various Irish Coercion Bills, if not upon all the grievances of Ireland, and that several nights must be occupied in the discussion; and from that moment he thought the responsibility of any delay in proceeding with the measures relating to corn rested with the Government. The public were not at all aware of the reasons which could induce the Government to postpone those measures to take the debate upon the Irish Coercion Bill; and if there were the same delay after Easter, in consequence of the Government still forcing the discussion of that Bill, and giving it precedence over the corn measures, the public would be still more strongly of opinion that the delay of those measures rested on the unexplained and inconceivable pertinacity of the Government in forcing on the discussion of the Irish Coercion Bill in preference to the Corn Bill.
 MR. FITZGERALD  begged to correct an expression which had been made by the hon. Member for Evesham, and which was calculated to lead to misapprehension of the real state of Ireland. The hon. Member had alluded to the importation of potatoes into Wales, and he inferred from that that there was a surplus over the quantity required. He could assure the hon. Member that in this he was perfectly mistaken. The fact was, that the prevalent disease was on the increase, and they were glad to dispose of their potatoes before they would be utterly ruined. He gave the right hon. Baronet credit for the measures he had introduced for the purpose of giving relief to Ireland; and with regard to the Coercion Bill, he could assure the right hon. Baronet that the opposition given to it by Irish Members did not arise from any desire to thrown impediments in the way of the Corn Bill, but solely because they considered the Coercion Bill ill-timed and uncalled for. He found that, during the last assizes in Tipperary, there had been no capital conviction, and that in the north crime had also diminished.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  was sure the right hon. Baronet must admit that if any doubt existed in the public mind as to the success of the Corn Law, it resulted from the conduct of the Government. Government could put an end to the uncertainty tomorrow. But independently of this, he thought that in this sort of conflict the Irish Members were unfairly used. The right hon. Baronet, who was followed by the hon. Member for Lambeth, threw the whole blame of the delay on the Irish Members. The hon. Member stated that he was opposed to the Bill, but asked the Irish Members whether they could not think it consistent with their duty to allow it to be read a second time? [Mr. HAWES: To imit the discussion.] Well, the Ministers could limit the discussion. Who had introduced the Bill? The Government; and then they made an appeal to that side of the House, and tried to throw the blame of the delay of the commercial measures on the Irish Members. He told them that the public did not blame the Irish Members. The public thought the Irish Members were quite right; but the same public, he was sorry to say, were beginning to doubt the sincerity of the Government to carry their great commercial measures. Why was that done for which Government were throwing the blame on others? Why was this discussion provoked? Out of courtesy, it was said, to the House of Lords. He had not yet heard that the House of Lords had sent down to search their journals; but even if they had, that House had nothing to do with the House of Lords. They had sent down a Bill, but he did not know why it should not remain on their Table a dead letter, if that House so liked. It was no concern of the House of Lords. And yet they were to take up this Bill to please the House of Lords, and also because, as the right hon. Baronet said, of the moral effect it would have in Ireland. But no moral effect would be produced in Ireland if the Irish people saw those Members in whom they had confidence, opposing by every means in their power this Bill. The moral effect of this Bill was perfectly gone in Ireland, and therefore, when they appealed to the Irish Members to consider during the recess whether they would not allow this Bill to be read a first time, he would ask the Government also to take into consideration whether they would persist in pressing a Bill which they must know they had no chance of passing into a law during this Session.
 MR. WYSE  thought the conduct of the Irish Members in offering every opposition to this measure could not be impugned.
 700
 MR. CHRISTIE  rose, pursuant to notice, "to ask the right hon. Baronet opposite whether the attention of the Poor Law Commissioners had been directed to the case of Elizabeth Butcher, tried at Salisbury on the 12th day of March, for the murder of her infant child, and acquitted, the child having been stripped of its clothing on the mother's leaving the Cricklade
 693
 MR. EWART  wished to put a question to the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the subject of certain exemptions from stamp duties, which it was hoped that the Government would extend to Building Societies. By some parties it was expected that the duties charged upon the transfer of land would, in the case of those societies, be wholly remitted. But whatever was intended to be done, of this there could be no doubt—that much advantage would accrue to the parties interested by a clear understanding as to what they had really to expect; and he hoped, therefore, that the right hon. Gentleman would state his intentions to the House.
 MR. W. SMITH O'BRIEN  said: The
 696
 SIR J. GRAHAM : In reply to the hon. Gentleman, I can state that the applications under the Public Works Act have been very numerous; and I am glad to say that in general they have been favourably entertained by the Commissioners. I am not in a condition to state to what extent they have gone, but they are certainly very numerous; and I am glad that they are, because the relief afforded by those means is of the most legitimate
 697 l.,
 SIR J. GRAHAM : I am very glad that the hon. and learned Member has, by favouring me with three days' notice, afforded me an opportunity of giving an answer to this question, which I hope will be satisfactory to him and to the House. The subject to which this question refers did attract the attention of the Poor Law Commissioners, and they therefore lost no time in addressing a letter to the clerk of the guardians of the Cricklade and Wootton Bassett union, where the case occurred. Now, with the permission of the House, I will read the substance of the letter, at least so far as it relates to the supply of clothing for children. These are the terms in which the Poor Law Commissioners have written upon this subject:—
 "The Commissioners think it right to state to the guardians, that if a woman delivered in a workhouse of a bastard child, desires to leave the workhouse, and has no provision of clothing for the child, she may apply to the board of guardians, or to the relieving officer, and they make her the necessary allowance, as for a case of emergency, under the first exception to article 1 of the general prohibitory order. The guardians may likewise, if they think fit, empower the master of the workhouse to furnish clothing for the child, in cases of this sort, when there is not time for the woman to make an application to the board of guardians or the relieving officer."
 SIR R. PEEL  then said: Sir, I wish to
 694 s. s., s. s., s. 695
 SIR R. PEEL : Really the hon. Gentleman has misunderstood what I stated. I threw out no imputation against any hon. Members. I did not complain of hon. Members opposite for their course of conduct on the Irish Bill; I did not complain of the hon. Gentleman and his friends for their course on the Corn Bill; so far from it they did not insist on notices, but on every Notice day permitted the debate on the Corn Bill to proceed. Even if the belief of the hon. Gentleman be correct, and the Corn Bill is to be defeated, depend upon it it will be infinitely better that the decision of the Legislature should be known at once. I never inferred that the Corn Bill is certain of suocess. I said nothing of the kind; but even if the hon. Gentleman's impressions be correct, he must see that the sooner the determination of the Legislature upon such a subject shall be known, the better it will be for all parties in the country.
 SIR R. PEEL : I am obliged to the right hon. Gentleman for calling the attention of the House and the Government to this important subject. I assure him that no time will be lost by the Board of Trade in considering the legislative measure necessary to give effect to the general views which I stated to the House the day before yesterday. Any law connected with the law of partnership must necessarily go into some nice details, and it is therefore desirable that the Bill, before it is introduced, should receive the sanction of the highest legal authorities. I may state, that in the course of yesterday some of the highest legal authorities connected with the law of property gave the subject their consideration. It is obvious that the details of such a measure are quite a different question from the general intention of the Government; and when time is so precious, and the interests concerned are so important, it would be most unwise, I think, to stand on official etiquette. I incline to think that the best course would be for the department more immediately connected with railways—the Board of Trade—to issue a circular to the heads of companies, containing not the minute details of the measure proposed by the Government, but its general principles. For instance, it would be proper to notify that the opinions of the majority of the holders of shares, that is to say, of persons holding half the shares in a company—against any further proceedings upon any Bill, would avail to prevent legislation upon it. The Board of Trade might, I repeat, notify that if the holders of half the shares, by however small a sum that is exceeded, express a wish to withdraw their Bill, the Government will advise the Legislature not to proceed upon it. I will communicate immediately with the President and the Vice-President of the Board of Trade; and I consider that if some public notification is immediately made by Government—
 702
 MR. DILLON BROWNE  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, a question on a subject with respect to which a great necessity existed that the public mind should be satisfied. He wished to know whether he had received any official intelligence or authoritative statements sufficient to convince him of the fearful state of many parts of the south of Ireland. The distress had attained such a height that several attacks had been made on mills for the purpose of obtaining provisions, and many cars laden with flour had been plundered, as well as boats similarly laden. He wished to know whether this information had reached Her Majesty's Government, and whether proper steps had been taken to meet the emergency.
 MR. O'CONNELL : I will not detain the House three minutes, nor would I take the liberty of addressing it at all on the present occasion were it not for what has fallen respecting me from the right hon. Baronet. The right hon. Gentleman has stated accurately the difference of opinion existing between my hon. Friend near me (Mr. Smith O'Brien) and myself on the subject of outdoor relief. I believe that in the social state in which Ireland exists, the Poor Law is not a remedy for anything like the quantity of destitution found in the country. I can see no reason for altering the opinion which I have so often expressed on this subject from the practical working of the existing Poor Law. As it is at present administered there are only 37,000 persons to whom relief is afforded, though according to the Report of your Commissioners there are two millions three hundred and odd thousand persons in a state of destitution in Ireland. These 37,000 persons have certainly received workhouse relief; but then it has been at a cost of 90,000 l. 729 pro tanto,
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, that as none of the legal functionaries of the Government then present exhibited the least sign of an intention to address the House on the most important question of law before them, and as none of the Irish supporters of the right hon. Gentleman
 760 761 762 763 764 "You landlords all, I pray draw near, A comical story you soon shall hear, Of a property situate in Donegal, Held by a hundred tenants in all, And each having seven young brats to squall. "Although each farm was in rundale, To divide each plot they would not fail With son or daughter, aye, or mother, With either uncle, aunt, or brother; And thus they divided with one another. Although each holding would'nt feed an ass, It went by the name of the cow's grass. For I have had two, Teague two and a half, Manus five-eights, and Margery a half, Each portion was only the breadth of a staff," &c.
 MR. ELLICE  said, it was not his intention to refer to the question before the House, but he rose merely to express his hope and prayer to hon. Gentlemen on that side of the House, who represented so ably the interests of Ireland, that they would reflect a little on the nature of the course which they were now pursuing, and on the effect which it would have on the country, suffering as it was from one end to the other, in consequence of the little progress yet made in the business of the Session. In making this appeal, he was sure hon. Gentlemen whom he addressed would admit that it came from a warm friend to their country. For nearly thirty years that he had had the honour of a seat in that House, there never had been an instance of an Irish question being brought forward on which he had not consulted what was called the liberal policy in his vote; and in this respect he only acted with most of the English Gentlemen representing large English constituencies on that side of the House. It was only in the hope that the best endeavours of all should be united for the interest of Ireland, that he now appealed to hon. Members to bring this debate to a close as soon as it should be consistent with their own views of the question to do so. He offered no opinion on the merits of this question. He felt very strongly with his hon. Friend the Member for Drogheda (Sir William Somerville), who had lately addressed the House. He felt that there was very little of political or religious feeling mixed up in the present outrages in Ireland, but that they arose, on the contrary, out of the misery caused by the difficulties existing with respect to the possession of land, or arising
 783
 MR. DILLON BROWNE  said, that all other matters were of secondary importance to Irish Members in comparison with the duty they owed to Ireland. They were anxious to support the Corn Bill; but they could not, consistently with their duty to their country, support the Coercion Bill. They had made hundreds of statements founded upon facts showing the impolicy of the measure, which the right hon. Baronet and his friends had not condescended to answer, and which the people of Ireland would see had not been answered. The right hon. Baronet said the Irish Members ought to be under an obligation to him for shortening the usual period of the recess, in order to pass the Coercion Bill. [Sir R. PEEL: I never said anything of the kind.] He understood that some statement of the kind had been made; and Irish Members would be grateful for it, if they were thereby placed under an obligation. He was as much opposed to an adjournment at that hour as any hon. Member; but if the right hon. Baronet had not thrown upon Irish Members the onus of resorting to this means for gaining further time for consideration, the Motion would not have been made. In short, he did not know what other conclusion to come to than this—that the Irish Members had been treated with contempt.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  denied that the Irish Members had been treated with the slightest disrepect either by the House or by Her Majesty's Government. Although he had himself forborne from addressing the House upon this particular subject, he had given the most attentive consideration during the whole course of the debate to all the hon. Members who had spoken. He understood there was a desire on the part of hon. Members from Ireland to record their opinions as fully as possible on this measure, and it was as much from that circumstance as any other that he had not spoken. At all events, nothing was farther from his intention, and from the desire of the Go-
 785
 MR. D. BROWNE  felt much gratified at the remarks which had fallen from the right hon. Baronet. If he (Mr. D. Browne) had entertained an impression that hon. Gentlemen representing Irish interests had been disrespectfully treated by the Ministers of the Crown, that impression was now completely removed. He had thought, however, that it was intended to pass this Bill—to force it upon the people of Ireland—by the  brutum fulmen
 MR. CALEB POWELL  said: Sir, the measure now under discussion has been variously denominated: one right hon. Gentleman calls it "A Bill for the Protection of Life;" another "For the Prevention of Assassination in Ireland;" others describe it, and more appropriately I think, a project for the "Coercion of the Irish People." But designate it how they may, disguise it how they will, it is in reality nothing more or less than an attempt, an abortive one, I trust, to transfer, bound neck and heels, the wretched Roman Catholic population of Ireland to the tender mercies of their ancient taskmasters, the Protestant gentry of that country. Three principal objections to the measure present themselves: first, no sufficient case has been established for it by the right hon. Gentleman; second, it will be no remedy, if the evils exist to the extent alleged; thirdly, it is not impartial legislation in respect to Her Majesty's Irish subjects. The Government argue  à particulari ad universale 741 cheval de battaille 742 743 Morning Chronicle 744 745 "There never yet was human power That could evade, if unforgiven, The patient search and vigil long Of him who treasures up a wrong."
 MR. CALEB POWELL  wished to know from the right hon. Baronet, if such was the object of the Government, why he pressed a Coercion Bill on the attention of the House instead of the Corn Bill?
 MR. C. POWELL  seconded the Motion, and said the right hon. Baronet relied upon his majority to put down the Irish Members.
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  said, that although he did not concur with the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down, as to the desirableness of proceeding with this Bill, he would not detain the House at any great length with a view of interrupting its progress. He did not believe that the Government intended doing much for the substantial relief of the people of Ireland. It was quite true that the right hon. Baronet had uttered sentiments of commiseration and feeling for the Irish people. The right hon. Baronet had also uttered a strong rebuke to the landlords of Ireland for not aiding the Government to the best of their power in relieving the wants of the people. For those sentiments, as far as they went, he thanked the right hon. Baronet; but, at the same time, he should better pleased did he hear the right hon. Baronet say, as the representative of the Executive Government of this country, that the Government did, in point of fact, intend doing something substantial towards relieving the calamities and distresses of the people, and that it was their intention to provide ample means for supplying the people of Ireland with food. He did not intend to make any allusion to the question between his hon. Friend the Member for Limerick and the right hon. Baronet, as to whether an English or an Irish Parliament would do most for the relief of the people of Ireland. He would also refrain saying anything about the  vexata questio 719 720 d. d. d. 721
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  had not called on the right hon. Baronet to support the people of Ireland, or to give them eleemosynary
 727
 MR. E. ROCHE  also withdrew the observations he had made, under the impression that the Government were treating the Irish Members disrespectfully; and said that after the observations of the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) he would not press the Motion for adjournment.
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  moved that the House do now adjourn.
 MR. J. COLLETT  said: I hope that as one of the representatives of Ireland, I may be permitted to offer a few short remarks on the Bill now before the House. I do confess that I most unfeignedly deplore the right hon. Baronet's determination to force on a measure so very questionable in its nature, and which requires to be considered with so much care and caution, at
 777 778
 MR. JOHN O'BRIEN : In rising to address the House on this adjourned debate, I have to express my regret that the prolonged but unavoidable discussion which has arisen should have interfered with the progress of those great measures of commercial legislation introduced by Her Majesty's Government, the speedy adjudication of which I hold to be not more essential to the trading and agricultural interests of the Empire, than to the mitigation of that destitution in Ireland, now no longer a matter of speculation, but of awful, imminent, and unquestionable certainty. And I have equally to regret my absence on a recent occasion, when the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government referred to the Members for Limerick and Clare, as I should have felt it my duty to have given my strongest testimony and support of the unexaggerated character of his statements. I should have done so, not alone on my own knowledge, but on the unsuspected, I may say official authority of documents I hold in my hand—one the letter of the present high sheriff of the city of Limerick, once a Member of this House—the other the address of the relief committee of the city, and bearing the signatures of the mayor, the Protestant dean of the diocese, and the late chairman of the Poor Law guardians; and, with the permission of the House, I shall read those brief but emphatic statements:—
 MR. JOHN O'CONNELL  explained: With regard to the sympathy shown in that House for the distress existing in Ireland, he had already expressed his conviction of the sincerity of that feeling both on the part of Her Majesty's Government and of the House generally; but to what did that sympathy amount? It was most honourable and creditable; but still could it be denied that similar feelings would not be extended to the natives of India, of Africa, or of the wilds of America? They were not to take credit, therefore, for the
 782
 MR. JOHN O'CONNELL  rose to move, that the debate be adjourned. It was quite evident that the hon. Gentlemen opposite were not prepared to speak. Irish Member after Irish Member had got up on that side of the House. Several English Members had also done honour to their country by the manly opposition which they had given to this measure; but no attempt was made to answer their arguments. The Bill was bad enough in itself; but it was rendered worse by the insulting manner in which the Ministry were treating the Irish Members in regard to it. He would say, that of all the proceedings he ever heard of towards Ireland, the most outrageous, the most insulting, the most utterly unjustifiable, and the most shameful, was the conduct of her Majesty's Government on this question. The Members for Ireland were aware of the manner in which the speeches they made were treated by the English Parliament. They were commented on by the English press and by hon. Members in that House; but he would appeal to any man, whether what had occurred there that night did not afford them the most abundant justification for everything the Repealers had yet said?—whether the utter, the entire contempt shown for Irish matters, was not the fullest proof that they were right in the course which they advocated? They were taunted by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department with being a small minority in that House. Was it, he asked, just that such reproaches should come from an Englishman—from one of that country that had deprived them of anything at all approaching to a fair share of representation in that House? They were refused a fair share in the representation, and then, because they were so refused, they were insulted and their complaints set at nought. It was his intention to persevere in this adjournment; and if the treatment shown that night towards the Irish Members and towards the Irish nation were persevered in, he would continue to offer every opposition in his power before the liberties of his country were permitted to be taken away. One hon. Member below the bar had made a good speech, coming from that (the Ministerial) side of the House; but he would ask, was it decent—was it commonly decent—for a dominant country to treat
 779 780
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, after the disclaimer of the right hon. Baronet, he begged to withdraw the imputation he had thrown upon the Government generally.
 MR. JOHN O'CONNELL  would read a statement to the House which he had just received, relating to a point not yet touched upon in the present discussion, although it bore a most important relation to it. The statement was as follows:—
 "Sir Robert Peel is reported to have stated that the Government embarked 100,000 l. 730 d. "In addition to the flour and oatmeal mills detailed, there are four powerful steam mills in Cork, capable of working 2,000 barrels at least weekly, making the total 12,920. The distillery power is at least 3,900. This power includes grinding and dressing. Indian corn requires no dressing, therefore the same power would prepare a much greater quantity of human food from it, or barley, which requires but very little, than from wheat or oats. Stopping distillation now would throw a large quantity of barley into the market for food, and considerably increase the available mill power. There is now no risk of private distillation, which can only be managed in winter." 731
 MR. M. GORE  supported the Bill. As it was his intention to vote for the first reading of the measure, he was anxious to explain the reasons that induced him to do so. It was founded on the principle that there was something in the state of Ireland which did imperatively require the interference of the Government and of the Legislature. To that principle he fully
 765 766 d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d., s. d. 767 "I say that Ireland is subject to great and deplorable evils which have a deep root, for they lie in the situation of the country itself; in the present character, manners, and habits of its inhabitants; in their want of intelligence, or, in other words, their ignorance; in the unavoidable separation between certain classes; in the state of property; in its religious distinctions; in the rancour which bigotry engenders and superstition rears and cherishes. The state of society is such, that laws, however wise in themselves, will be ineffectual as to their object until the manners and cus-
 768 "Clifden, in Connemara, and vicinity, in 1815, contributed no revenue; up to 1822 scarcely a stone of oats could be got. In 1836 it was an export town, sending out 800 tons of oats, and producing to the revenue annually 7,000 l. l. l. l. 769 "There are about 4,000 persons; none of the married or unmarried women can afford more than one shift, and a great number cannot afford any; and more than one-half of both men and women cannot afford shoes to their feet, nor can many of them afford a second bed, but whole families of sons and daughters of mature age indiscriminately live together with their parents, and in their bare buff. They have no means of harrowing their land but with meadow rakes. Their farms are so small, that from four to ten farms can be harrowed in a day with one rake. Their beds are straw, green and dried rushes, or mountain bent; their bedclothes are either coarse sheets, or no sheets, and ragged filthy blankets. The generality of the peasantry are on the small allowance of one meal a day, and many families cannot afford more than one meal in two days, and sometimes one meal in three days; their children crying, and fainting with hunger, and their parents weeping, being full of grief, hunger, debility, and dejection, with gloomy aspect, looking at their children, likely to expire in the jaws of starvation." "Just as the tendrils of the sea anemone open to the returning wave, so will the heart of the poor man, if kindly treated, expand beneath that kindness." 770 "Equal in fame to proudest conquerors."
 MR. FITZGERALD  called attention to
 732
 MR. FITZGERALD  said, that the right hon. Baronet had certainly declared he had shortened the recess in order to proceed with the Coercion Bill; and he (Mr. Fitzgerald) felt under no obligation to him for that. As to disrespect, he had sat in the House since the commencement of the debate to-night, and he had seen hon. Members from Ireland address the House when there was not more than half-a-dozen Gentleman upon the benches opposite. This neglect was another argument in favour of the Irish people having their own Parliament; and he congratulated the hon. Member for Athlone (Mr. J. Collett) upon the manly declaration he had made in favour of Repeal.
 MR. W. COLLETT  said, that he wished to draw the attention of the Government to the Railway Acts passed for Ireland in the last Session of Parliament. The Cork and Cashill Railway, the Waterford and Limerick Railway, and the Dundalk and Enniskillen Railway Bills, were among those to which he alluded; and what he wished to know was, whether money might not be advanced, by way of loan, under certain restrictions, to these works, in order that the people might be at once employed upon them? He did not allude to the Railway Bills of this Session; but with respect to the others, he thought arrangements might be made by which the works could be commenced at once. Though he could not boast of being a resident Irish landlord, he had given employment for the last nine years to 500 labourers, and within eight years had expended 90,000 l. 728
 MR. W. SMITH O'BRIEN  wished to say a word or two in explanation. The right hon. Baronet opposite said, in opposing the Coercion Bill the Irish Members were responsible for delaying the progress of those measures which were intended to relieve the distressed people of Ireland. The Irish Members did not deserve that imputation. With regard to compelling the resident landlords of Ireland to assist the Government in remedial measures, he (Mr. W. S. O'Brien) begged to say, that if the right hon. Baronet proposed a general tax upon property with that object, he for one would cordially support him.
 MR. W. SMITH O'BRIEN  seconded the Amendment. He said he confessed this was one of those steps to which he would resort with very great reluctance; but still he felt that the ground taken by his hon. Friend the Member for Kilkenny was perfectly just. The debate had now continued for three nights, and yet only two Members of the Government had spoken, while not a single Irish Member had yet come forward to advocate the measure. Under these circumstances, it was monstrous to think that the Government should attempt to force this Bill forward against the earnest protest of all those Members who were qualified to speak on behalf of the people of Ireland. If the Government were prepared to speak, let them speak; and if they were not prepared, he could not see why they should object to the Motion for adjournment.
 MR. W. SMITH O'BRIEN  did not rise to propose the postponement of the Order of the Day, but to make an appeal to the Government with respect to that part of Ireland with which he was connected. He had taken the liberty of stating, five weeks ago, that the measures of the Government were altogether inadequate as a remedy for the state of Ireland, and the right hon. Gentleman seemed to have made a charge against him for so doing. Every day showed the importance of resorting to more energetic measures. He hoped that the delay would not take place until the people were dying by thousands, and he certainly could not conceive what further information the Government could want. The circumstance of extensive starvation did not often occur in any country, but a deficient supply of food often produced extensive disease; it appeared, however, that in Ireland instances had occurred of positive starvation. He had found this in reports of coroners' inquests in the Irish newspapers. For instance:—
 "Death from Destitution.—Roscommon.—On Sunday morning a poor man was discovered within half a mile of this town, stretched by the ditch, and apparently some hours dead. An inquest was held by the coroner (B. Keogh, Esq.), and after the examination of the body by the surgeon, the jury found a verdict 'that the poor man died from destitution and hunger.'"— Roscommon Journal. "Death from Starvation.—A man died of starvation at the public works at the Island, on Thursday. The poor men who were his fellow labourers, and not in much better condition, subscribed on the spot a penny each to relieve the immediate
 704 "Fearful Destitution.—The intelligence in our columns of the increasing distress of the labouring population of Limerick, Clare, and Kerry, is most fearful, and the accumulating wants of the people combine to precipitate a crisis which the kindly sympathies of every Christian bosom must be earnestly solicitous to avert. We could wish to keep this grievous spectacle of human misery and suffering in the far distance, as a visionary or passing creation of 'the mind's eye;' but the sad reality is so broad and substantial, that we cannot longer turn away from the horrors of actual and appalling destitution which now encompass us at every side. We have proof already that many wretched families in the interior of the country are starving upon one meal of bad and insufficient food in the four and twenty hours! The district relief committees have heard the warning voice, and the imploring cry of the hungry poor is painful to the ear. Voluntary private benevolence is doing much, but not more than it ought in such a deplorable calamity. Government must come to the rescue with more speed and effect, or the catastrophe will be overwhelming." Cork Reporter "The relief committee have, we rejoice to say, thrown off the Castle incubus that weighed like a nightmare on their energies. To-day there are six depots selling out Indian meal, which arrived by the Nimrod on Thursday, at 8 d. s. d. d. s. d. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. 705 d.
 COLONEL VERNER  said, that in his part of the country, after having made every possible inquiry, he found the produce of the last harvest so fair, that there was at least an average crop for consumption. The tenantry unanimously stated that since the war they did not recollect so good a season for paying rents; and that at present there was a great quantity of grain in the country.
 MR. WARD  thought it was disgraceful that the House so often exhibited on the discussion of great constitutional questions of this sort complete indifference. He had seen three or four occasions that night on which he could have counted out the House, if he had chosen to call the attention of the Speaker to the subject, there not being forty Members present. However, as he differed from the hon. Member who had just sat down as to the reasons why this Bill should be opposed, he would take that opportunity of stating the grounds which, notwithstanding the considerations urged, and the strong facts stated by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Home Department, in his opening speech, induced him, as an English Member, to say that he could not give his assent to the Government Bill. He would say at once that he did not adopt the idea of any imagined superiority on the part of the people of this country over the people of Ireland with respect to the matters they were now discussing. He believed, on the contrary, that it would be found that the Irish people were superior in the endurance of evils which were almost intolerable, which the English people had no idea of; which never had been sub-
 746 747 748 749 "That these disorders really and not colourably took their rise from complaints and grievances of a private nature. The price of labour was too cheap, victuals were too dear, and the landlords were excessively oppressive. In the perpetration of these disorders Papists and Protestants were promiscuously concerned. Their oath to each other was simply to be true one to another, and not discover what was done." "He knew Munster well, and it was impossible for human wretchedness to exceed that of the miserable peasantry. He knew that the unhappy tenantry were ground to powder by relentless landlords. But the Legislature could not stand by and see them take redress into their own hands." 750 751 The Times "It is an undoubted fact, that, as landlords, Irish gentlemen exact more from their tenants than the same class of men in any other country." "Not a bit of bread have I eaten since I was born, nor a bit of butter. We sell all the corn and the butter to give to the landlord; yet I have the largest farm in the district—(he held seven cows' grass at 16 l. "The possession of land is so indispensable, that much beyond what it can possibly produce will be eagerly offered as rent." 752 753 "If a poor family can procure a pennyworth of buttermilk occasionally, to be divided between six of them, they were satisfied." d. "I remember, when I saw the poor Lettes of Livonia, I used to pity them. Well, Heaven pardon my ignorance! I knew not that I should ever see a people upon whom Almighty God had imposed yet heavier privations. But, now that I have seen Ireland, it seems to me that the poorest of the Lettes, the Esthonians, and the Finlanders, lead a life of luxury compared with that of the Irish cottier." l., l., l. "The only means by which a man can procure food for his family is by getting and retaining possession of a portion of land. For this he has struggled. For this the peasantry have combined,
 754 "A woman told me they had hard fare and many disappointments; but God prepared the back for the burden." "Their children were healthy." "God ordered it so to the poor." 755 l., l. l. 756 757 758 Facts from Glendore Industrial Resources of Ireland "There is another circumstance, so popularly counted on as a most material obstacle to the development of industry in Ireland, that I cannot leave the subject without briefly adverting to it; that is, the want of capital. This has been the bugbear of Irish enterprise for many years. England has capital—Ireland has not—therefore England is rich and industrious, and Ireland is poor and idle. But where was the capital when England began to grow rich? It was the industry that made the capital, not the capital the industry. An idle or ignorant man will lose his capital, when an active and intelligent man will create a capital. We leave our fields in barrenness, our mines unsought, our powers of motion unapplied,
 759
 SIR. J. GRAHAM : Sir, after the speech which the hon. Gentleman has just delivered, although I am most anxious to avoid
 711 712 713 714 l.; l., l.; l. l. 715 l. l. l. l., 716 l. l.; 717 "This was the unkindest cut of all;" 718
 SIR J. GRAHAM  moved the Order of the Day for the Adjourned Debate on the first reading of the Protection of Life (Ireland) Bill.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  replied that every post brought alarming details of the distress to himself and to his right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Home Department; and, speaking generally, he thought that the people of Ireland bore the privations to which they were subjected with
 703
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that was just what the Government wanted in passing the Corn Bill—namely, to have foreign wheat admitted at 4 s. s. d.
 SIR R. PEEL : The hon. Gentleman who has spoken last has, I am sorry to say, brought a melancholy confirmation of the impressions under which we have from the first acted in reference to Ireland. About a fortnight since we had occasion to defend ourselves from the charge that we had exaggerated the present scarcity in Ireland—that we had used an admitted scarcity in some parts of the country for the purpose of promoting the success of a measure permanently affecting the commercial in-
 722 723 s. s. d. s. 724 s. 725 726
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he would leave it to the House to judge how far the accusation made by the hon. Gentleman who moved the adjournment was justified. He could recollect no instance in which there was more of respectful attention paid to the statements of Irish Gentlemen than on the present occasion. They had been as yet only four hours debating this evening; they commenced the proceedings that day with the state of Ireland, and the measures necessary on account of the famine existing in that country. In that discussion, three Cabinet Ministers, his hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department, his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and himself, had spoken. They curtailed the holidays for the express purpose of giving an opportunity to the representatives of Ireland of stating their views; every Cabinet Minister in that House was present to hear their opinions; and under these circumstances he would leave it to the House to judge whether the sentiments expressed of a want of respect for Irish Members or Irish interests was justified. They had been informed that it was the intention of several hon. Gentlemen connected with Ireland to bring the
 781
 SIR R. PEEL  hoped the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down would not be angry if he did not reply to his speech. The general custom of that House was to be content with giving respectful and patient attention to any hon. Member who chose to address the House on the subject under discussion; but it was something new to impose upon hon. Gentlemen the duty of making speeches. At the same time he must say, that if he had had any reason to believe that it was intended to terminate this debate to-night, he should, in the position he occupied, have felt it due to the importance of the subject, and to the country more immediately interested, not to allow the discussion to close without expressing his sentiments on the question. If there had been the least probability of a division on the first reading of the Bill to-night, he should have considered it disrespectful to allow the debate to close without addressing the House. He, therefore, did protest most strongly against the imputation that the Irish Members had been treated with disrespect by Her Majesty's Government. The hon. Gentleman opposite had moved the adjournment of the House—a Motion which, if agreed to, would interfere with public business, by retarding the progress of the measures upon the Paper. If that hon. Gentleman was aware of the duties which, during the Session, devolved upon the Ministers of the Crown, he would know how impossible it was for them to contend with him, who had just arrived fresh from Ireland, on those Motions of adjournment. He (Sir R. Peel) had no doubt that hon. Gentlemen would consent, without taking the sense of the House on this Motion, to an arrangement
 786
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, he was exceedingly glad to hear from the right hon. Baronet that the Government were prepared to augment the sum of money placed at the disposal of the Board of Works. In counties it was possible to proceed with the construction of roads and other public improvements; but in towns, such as that which he had the honour to represent (Drogheda), they had no means of employing the people, except by the improvement of their harbours; and he trusted, therefore, that the Government would take means to have the Report of the Harbour Commissioners laid on the Table with as little delay as possible, in order that its suggestions might be carried into effect.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that as he should feel it his duty to vote against the first reading of the Bill, and as he knew he should lay himself open to much misrepresentation in so doing, he begged to trespass upon the attention of the House for a short time. If he wanted a proof of the lamentable effect which legislation had hitherto had upon Ireland, he should find it in the fact that after a connexion of some centuries, and a legislative union of half a century, the House of Commons were now engaged in considering a measure the object of which was to prevent the subjects of Her Majesty from appearing out of their houses between sunset and sunrise. But however melancholy this state of things, he admitted that if crime were so prevalent in Ireland, Government were bound to apply a remedy. But first it was incumbent upon them to prove the existence of the crime; secondly, if it did exist, that they had exhausted all constitutional means of putting a stop to it; and thirdly, that the remedy they proposed would be efficacious. As regarded the prevalence of crime in certain districts of Ireland, it must unfortunately be admitted that upon this point there was but too much unanimity on all sides of the House. This he admitted unreservedly, and he could assure the House that he had not words to express the feelings of horror with which he viewed these crimes. Many of them were marked by features of atrocity so repugnant to the Irish character, that he confessed he felt more alarmed at this fact than even at the frequency of the crime itself. There were unhappily attendant circumstances connected with these crimes which proved to him that the demoralization of the people must have proceeded to a fearful extent before such deeds could have been designed and perpetrated in such a country as Ireland. He alluded to the unmanly outrages which of late years had been occasionally committed in Ireland on aged and unguarded persons, not unfrequently, too of the frailer sex; and he regarded as not the least aggravated portion of such cases, that many persons stood by and looked on as unconcerned spectators while those scandalous and unmanly outrages were perpetrated. All who knew anything
 771 A laugh. 772 773 774 775 776
 MR. H. BERKELEY  wished to ask a question of the right hon. Baronet the Master of the Mint. It appeared from a statement in  The Times
 MR. MOFFATT  said, that memorials complaining of Mr. Kelly had been presented to the Treasury, but had not reached the hands of the department. It was felt to be a very different thing to come before the chiefs of a public department and a Committee of the House of Commons. A sense that they would have justice was wanting in people's mind with respect to the former; but there was great confidence in the latter. He thought an inquiry into the management of the Post Office was necessary on public grounds, and not merely in consequence of the allegations in the petition before the House. Justice had not yet been done by the authorities of the Post Office to the penny postage system. He felt perfectly satisfied that if the system were properly carried out, and if, among other things, increased facilities were given, the deficiency in the revenue, as compared with that under the old system, would be made up. What had taken place in the London District Post fully proved this. In the year 1844, the increase in the number of letters was 1,800,000 on the previous year. In twelve months after, that is to say, between the 15th of May, 1844, and the same day in 1845, the number had increased to 2,676,000. A consolidation of the General Post deliveries with those of the old Twopenny Post would effect a great advantage, and save a great waste, which there was at present, of both money and strength; and persons might then get their letters by nine o'clock in the morning, instead of at half-past ten, as at present. Another absurd regulation was the limitation of weight in the letters conveyed by the Post Office. In these and many other respects there was in the Post Office a false and slovenly system, which he felt assured could not long be continued were the proposed inquiry to be granted.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the speech of the hon. Member who had just addressed the House was distinguished by a great deal of that natural sagacity which he applied to every question upon which he spoke. But he thought that he had made an erroneous statement as to what had fallen from those against whom his observations were principally levelled. His sagacity had been wonderful, because it appeared that he was right in his anticipations as to what would be the conduct, in respect to this question, of all those public men in this House who had any knowledge of the public business. [Mr. WAKLEY: No, no!] And the hon. Member said that he had come to the conclusion that one and all of them would be found to oppose this Motion. The hon. Gentleman further said, that the course of the House of Commons should be this—that when a Gentleman made a statement against any individual, it was the duty of
 835 Post Office Directory l. l. instanter 836 837
 LORD CLAUDE HAMILTON  said, he agreed with many of the observations which had fallen from the hon. Mover and Seconder of the Resolution, as to the necessity of lessening the expense. He would, however, wish to ask the hon. Mover whether he meant his Motion to apply prospectively or retrospectively? He thought that some facilities might be adopted; but still he should vote against the proposition, as it would be an injustice to English shareholders, who would not have embarked their capital in Irish lines if they had thought they were to be left to the management of local boards.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  observed that the proposition as it stood on the Paper, was obviously against the rules and orders of the House, and was one which the House could not sanction, for it went to bind the Committees of the other House as well as this. It was better that the whole subject be left over for consideration until the commencement of the next Session.
 MR. DILLON BROWNE  said, that if the right hon. Baronet would promise to introduce some measure on the subject, to carry out the principle involved in his hon. Friend's proposition, he would recommend him to withdraw his Motion. He thought that such matters connected with private Bills might be left to be dealt with in the localities affected, as the persons in them were best able to consult their own interests. Of course he would leave all measures dealing generally with property to the general Legislature.
 COLONEL CONOLLY  was of opinion, that the crude and undigested matter brought before the House by the hon. Members, the Mover and Seconder, tended to defeat each other. One had said that the plan was the unanimous voice of Ireland. It might be the unanimous voice of Limerick, but to say that Limerick was Ireland was rather too much. The greatest portion of the capital used in Irish railroads came from English pockets, and he should be sorry to adopt any plan by which the use of that capital should be checked. That the plan suggested might be a bar to the introduction of capital was a serious objection, and one that weighed greatly with him. He was of opinion that the suggestion made by the hon. Member who had seconded the Motion, namely, that a county should decide how fast a railway should traverse its own district, tended fully to destroy the eligibility of the scheme. How could harmony be found in large undertakings, when counties could not agree even about constructing a turnpike road, on which a few hundred pounds were expended? If the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government acceded to the modified suggestions of the hon. Member proposing the Motion, he (Colonel Conolly) might then support the measure, but not in its present shape.
 LORD G. BENTINCK : I rise, Sir, in accordance with the notice which I have given, to ask the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government for an explanation of the false return which has been made to the Order of this House. That return is one moved for by me of the prices of Memel and Canada timber. I made the Motion for this return in the last week of January, or quite in the beginning of February. This false return, when it was produced was dated from the "Landing Surveyor's Office, 13th Feb.;" but it was not presented to this House until the 1st of April. My object in moving for it was to throw light upon the debate upon the timber duties, which was then coming on. Now this return, when it was produced, gave the following as the prices of Memel timber. It was in different years:—
 
 
 1840 from £8 0 0 to £8 5 0 
 1841 from 7 15 0 to 8 0 0 
 1842 from 7 15 0 to 8 0 0 s. l. s. d. s. s. 
 
 1844 from £5 5 0 to £5 10 0 
 1845 from 5 5 0 to 5 10 0 
 1846 from 5 12 0 to 5 17 6 l. s. d. s., s. d. s. d. 
 
 1840 about £5 10 0 
 1841 about 5 5 0 
 1842 about 5 5 0 791 l. s. d., s. s. s., 
 
 1844 about £4 5 0 
 1845 about 4 5 0 
 1846 about 4 12 6 l. s. d. s. d., s. d., s. d. s. d. s. d. s. s. s. 792
 MR. B. ESCOTT  observed, that having been a Member of the Committee to which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Portsmouth (Mr. F. Baring) had referred, he felt it to be his duty to say that he never heard a more intelligent or honest witness than Mr. Bokenham, when he appeared before that Committee. He had also a perfect recollection that it had been amply proved that every complaint or memorial presented to the Postmaster General was subjected to the strictest inquiry; and so satisfied had been every Member of the Committee with the fair dealing of the Post Office authorities in such matters, that no one proposed any reports whatever on the subject of the charges then brought before them. This recollection led him to suppose that any individual coming to this House should be able to show that he had made some previous representation of grievances to the Post Office authorities. In this case, this had not been done; and he must say that, while he honoured the hon. Member for Finsbury for his general championship of grievances, in this instance the hon. Member had certainly not a very good case to bring forward. It appeared to him that this was a mere trumpery squabble between the editor of a newspaper and the conductor of the  Post Office Directory;
 MR. CALEB POWELL  said, he did not understand his hon. Colleague to propose that the legislation should be transferred to Ireland, but merely that the preliminary inquiries should be conducted in Dublin.
 MR. FREWEN  said, the hon. Member for Roscommon had alluded to 20,000 l.
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  hoped the hon. Member who had introduced the Motion, would not be induced to withdraw it. No time could be better than the present for the discussion of Irish affairs. The Irish Members had been told, when asking for a separate Legislature, that they
 851
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  wished to ask a question of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department. About twelve months ago the Irish Colleges Bill passed that House, and Cork had been fixed upon as one of the places where those colleges should be located; but, up to that moment, there was no appearance of such intention being carried out, either with regard to Cork or, he believed, any other part of Ireland. He wished, therefore, to ask the right hon. Baronet whether the Government really intended to carry out the law; and, if so, why was it that ordinary despatch had not been used—for, if it had, numbers of persons at present unemployed, and amounting in number, in Cork alone he believed, to 37,000, would have found employment; or, whether they (the Government) had come round to the opinion of his hon. Friend the Member for Kilkenny, and believed these colleges were to be infidel institutions?
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that before following the hon. Member who brought forward the Motion in the detailed reply which would probably be expected from him to the charges which he had made against an important public department, perhaps the House would allow him to make two observations which applied to the whole question. The first was, that he begged to assure the hon. Member and the House, that there was not on the part of the Treasury, or on the part of the noble Lord who now presided over the Post Office, any more than there had been on the part of the noble Lords who had preceded him, any wish to screen from detection, from exposure, or from punishment, any malpractices like those which he had denounced to the House. The other observation which he wished to make was this, that the noble Lord who presided over the Post Office was always open, and that the Treasury was always open to the reception of memorials or applications from any of the parties who were the victims of the alleged malpractices. [Mr. DUNCOMBE: Hear!] The hon. Gentleman cheered him derisively, but the hon. Gentleman forgot two statements that he made in the course of his own speech. The hon. Member stated that the oppressed subordinates were afraid of addressing a memorial to the Treasury; but the hon. Member also stated, in another part of his speech, that when he asked them whether they were not afraid of getting themselves into a scrape with their superiors in making their representations to him, they told him, in reply, that they were ready to come, to the number of 200 or 300, to him for the purpose of publicly expressing the indignation which they felt at the treatment they had received. Now, the hon. Member would excuse him for saying, that persons who were so little afraid of the displeasure of their superiors, that they went in a multitude of 200 or 300 for the purpose of attacking those supe-
 820 821 Post Office Directory. Post Office Directory Post Office Directory; 822 Directory Post Office Directory, Directory. Post Office Directory Post Office Directory. Directory 823 Directory. Post Office Directory, Post Office Directory. Directories Directory res integra, 824 Post Office Directory. Post Office Directory, 825 Post Office Directory. 826 827 s., s. 828
 MR. PROTHEROE  thought that the hon. Secretary for the Treasury had not
 829
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  seconded the Motion; but not having been previously aware that the hon. Member for Limerick would then bring it forward, he (Mr. French) cenfessed he was not in the condition to state those figures and facts in support of the proposition which he would be otherwise prepared to state. Still, under the circumstances, and having taken some interest in railway projects, he could not sit silent. The House must remember that the systems adopted for the construction of common roads in the two countries were different; and he thought those iron roads should be classed with the common
 845 l. l.; l.
 COLONEL RAWDON  said, that this Motion did not interfere with the legislative proceedings, but with the preliminary inquiries. He would not vote against the proposition of his hon. Friend; but he thought that the mode of carrying it out might be well left to the Government.
 MR. BROTHERTON  objected to the system on which these letter-carriers were appointed. Testimonials, however good or important, coming from the authorities of a borough, or persons among the public whose opinion was entitled to attention, were altogether disregarded; but a Member of Parliament who supported the Government might, by a recommendation to the Treasury, obtain these appointments, although he might know nothing of the persons appointed, who might be most unfit. He had been informed of cases where agricultural labourers had been sent from Buckinghamshire and other counties down to Manchester, many of whom were unable to read and write, and who were so ignorant of the streets of Manchester that they brought back the letters with which they had been entrusted, not being able to deliver them. And yet, while such men were appointed on the personal recommendation of Parliamentary supporters of the Government, the testimonials of persons on the spot, competent to judge of the fitness of the persons they recommended, were disregarded. He thought this was a system which ought to be amended.
 MR. MAURICE O'CONNELL  really thought the arguments about the introduction of English capital into Ireland had been long since exploded. English capital had made its way to all parts of the world, and he believed there was as much of it in Ireland as was good for them. The question now, however, was—not whether English capital should be sent to Ireland, but—whether Irish capital was to be wasted in having persons hanging round that House, or dodging in the neighbourhood of Westminster Hall? The great bulk of the capital embarked in Irish railways belonged to Ireland, and the majority of the English subscribers were, he believed, now classed by zoologists as a new denomination of the stag species. All they wanted was, that the preliminary inquiries should take place in Ireland. They should recollect that every Railway Bill that came before them, cost at least 3,000 l.
 MR. P. SCROPE  wished to put a question respecting the locality of tenant rights in Ireland. In a recent speech of his, in stating the grounds of agrarian outrage in that country, he said that, in the great majority of cases, Irish tenants were not protected by law in the enjoyment of their tenant rights. He understood the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) at the time to state that he had a contrary impression upon this subject; and that the tenant right in Ireland was on the footing of a common law right. It was a point highly necessary to be cleared up, whether the right of the outgoing tenant to the goodwill was a right that he could enforce at common law? This tenant right was recognised in the north of Ireland, particularly in the province of Ulster, not only in a case of tenancy under a lease, but also in cases of tenancy at will. He begged to ask Her Majesty's Government whether, in case of the refusal of a landlord in Ireland, and particularly in Ulster, to permit the sale of tenant right and goodwill by a tenant relinquishing the occupancy of a farm, or the refusal of a landlord who reassumed such occupancy to give compensation for tenant right or goodwill to the outgoing tenant—preceding tenants, from time immemorial, having sold or received compensation for such tenant right or goodwill—the civil and military power would be employed to enforce ejectment under such circumstances?
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the allegations of the petition of Mr. Jonathan Duncan on the maladministration of affairs in the General Post Office. He said if it were the intention of Government to accede to the Motion of which had given notice, he should not trouble the House more than a few minutes; but if it were their intention to resist his Motion, he must persevere in laying his case before the House, because he could not conceive any public department in this country in which it was more necessary that allegations of abuses when made should be at once and immediately inquired into before a Committee of that House. At the close of the last Session of Parliament, when it was almost too late for a Committee to inquire, he had moved for such a Committee to investigate a portion of the complaint which he had now to make, more especially that portion with regard to the manner in which the servants in a particular department were paid by fees. He now called upon the House, if it had any regard for its own honour—irrespective even of the public interest—if they did not wish to see every order which issued from them treated with contempt, to agree to the inquiry which he now sought for. He believed that there was no public department in this country against which there were juster grounds of dissatisfaction than against the General Post Office; of dissatisfaction too, not heard without the walls only of that department, but which existed to a most alarming and discreditable extent within. The petition to which he
 808 Sentinel Sentinel in terrorem "That your petitioner has lately become acquainted with many facts concerning the present management of the General Post Office in St. Martin's-le-Grand, which your petitioner is firmly convinced that parties employed therein have wilfully withheld from the knowledge of yonr honourable House, especially in the inquiry ordered by
 809 "That one of the principal causes of the delays that have so frequently occurred in the delivery of letters, and of the difficulties that impede the arrangements to meet the increase of business in the General Post Office, is a private undertaking, carried on in the office by means of the public servants, letter-carriers, sub-sorters, inspectors, and others, and of the public stores, to a considerable amount annually." Post Office Directory, Directory "That in the compilation of these Directories certain inspectors, sub-sorters, and letter-carriers are compulsorily employed throughout the year, principally during those hours which ought to be appropriated to the duties in their respective capacities; that in many instances the Post Office servants have been occupied during official hours at the printing office of these Directories, while those who remained in the Post Office have had to perform their work; that to this place messengers have been sent to recall them, when letters and newspapers have been in danger of detention through their absence." 810 s. Supplementary Directory Directories Supplementary Directory Directory Supplementary Directories Directories Directories. Directories 811 Directories, Directory. Directory. "That in the preparation of these Directories at the General Post Office, public stores, consisting of charge books, and other official documents, ink, paper, coals, and string, are freely used." 812 Directory Directory, "That the said Frederick Kelly has instructed the letter-carriers how to evade the Hawking Act, in the disposal of copies of Kelly's Directories, and thus rendered himself liable, as your petitioner is advised, to a criminal prosecution, for aiding and assisting in a breach of the law." "That in several cases the said Frederick Kelly, when debts have been owing on account of Kelly's Directory, has of his own authority stopped the wages of letter-carriers to repay himself, even in cases of disputed debt; and where the parties have been ill and in hopitals, and their families destitute; and the said Frederick Kelly has also withheld the resignation of letter-carriers, duly tendered, for several months, until the claims on them for copies of Kelly's Directory were satisfied, by which the revenue has suffered, inasmuch as moneys were paid to the said Frederick Kelly as for the salaries of persons who had ceased to be in the office." Directory; Directory 813 Directory s. s. s. Directory Directories Directory, Directory Directory Directory Directory Directory. 814 s. s., s., s. s., 815 816 l. Post Office Directory, Robson's Directory, Post Office Directory, l. l. l., l. l. Post Office Directory. Post Office Directory. 817 Post Office Directory.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  replied: It was because Mr. Bokenham was an able and intelligent witness, that he wished to have him before a Committee of the House; and instead of Members of the Government running from one end of the House to the other every now and then, to pick up scraps of information on the points of his (Mr. Duncombe's) statement, from persons in attendance belonging to the Post Office, he should like to hear those parties at the bar of the House giving such information as he knew it was in their power to afford. It had been said, that Mr. Bokenham and another had examined Mr. Kelly's books, and found them correct; but it should be remembered that one of the allegations in the petition was, that Kelly and
 838 839 Post Office Directory
 MR. WAKLEY  said, he thought the point had been very well explained by the right hon. Baronet opposite, namely, that it was extraordinary they should have been called on to affirm a principle without knowing how it could be carried into effect. Still the opinion was so strong on his part that injury had been done to Ireland by the constant drainage of money, and that a large expenditure was going on in this country that ought to take place in Ireland, that if the hon. Gentleman wished to divide the House he would undoubtedly vote with him. He, however, thought it would be better for the hon. Gentleman to withdraw his Motion for the present, and to bring it before the House on another occasion, when he should be prepared to submit some plan by which the principle would be carried into effect. There was a general feeling existing that Ireland was an ill-governed, neglected, and persecuted country; but it could not be said that the present Government was unfriendly to Ireland, the Irish Members themselves having admitted that no measures had been brought forward more advantageous to their country, than some which had been introduced by Her Majesty's present advisers. He, therefore, thought that, notwithstanding the Coercion Bill being introduced, the Irish Members should not look upon the Government as hostile, more especially as the right hon.
 849
 MR. WAKLEY  said, that during the discussion he had been calculating what line of conduct the ex-official Gentlemen on his side of the House would pursue with respect to the Motion, and must confess that in going through the list of names he could not find one who would be likely to vote for the Motion of his hon. Colleague. Whenever the character or conduct of a
 833 Directory Robson's Directory. 834 l. l.
 MR. CHRISTIE  said, he would support the Motion, for there was no greater field for political jobbing than the patronage of the Post Office. He thought a case had been fully made out for a general inquiry.
 830
 MR. CHRISTIE  rose to bring before the House the case of a second Assistant Poor Law Commissioner who, within a short period, had been deprived of his appointment without any reason being assigned for such a measure, and under circumstances of injustice which required explanation. He, of course, expected to be met by the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir J. Graham) with the objection formerly urged on a similar occasion, that the Poor Law Commissioners were empowered to remove the Assistant Commissioners at their discretion. He had all along been aware that the Poor Law Commissioners possessed this power; but the Act of Parliament under which they were appointed provided certain securities for the just and proper exercise of that power; and he must now call upon the House to consider whether, in the case he was about to submit to them, the securities so provided by the Poor Law Amendment Act had not been trampled upon and disregarded? The Poor Law Commissioners were empowered to act only as a board; for the formation of a constitutional board the attendance of at least two Commissioners was required; and, further, the board was not complete without the presence of the secretary, its recording officer. The Poor Law Amendment Act also specially required that a faithful minute should be kept of every proceeding of the Commissioners; and it was provided that, for further security, these minutes should be submitted at least once a year to the Secretary of State for the Home Department. The fourth section of that Act ran thus:—
 "The said Commissioners shall make a record of their proceedings, in which shall be entered in writing a reference to every letter received, whence, its date, the date of its reception, and the subject to which it relates, and a minute of every letter written or order given by the said Commissioners, whether in answer to such letters received or otherwise, with the date of the same, and a minute of the opinion of each of the members of the board of Commissioners, in case they should finally differ in opinion upon any order to be given or other proceeding of the board; and such record shall be submitted to one of Her Majesty's Principal Secretaries once in every year, or as often as he shall require the same." 795 796
 MR. CHRISTIE  reminded the right hon. Baronet that he had given no explanation of the letter which he had written.
 MR. SMITH O'BRIEN  said, all he wished the House to do was to affirm the principle of the Resolution.
 MR. W. SMITH O'BRIEN , pursuant to notice, rose to submit a Motion to the following effect:—
 "That, with a view to diminish the inconvenience and expense now incurred in carrying through Parliament Bills for the construction of Railways in Ireland, it is expedient that, in the case of Irish Railway Bills, all such inquiries as are now conducted in London by Committees of this House should, after the termination of the present Session, take place in Ireland." 841 842 843 primâ facie 844
 MR. SMITH O'BRIEN  explained. He should prefer local administration to the grand jury system. He should wish to see local bodies similar in some respects to grand juries, but dependent on popular control, to have a commission formed by that House on the authority of the Speaker similar to other commissions.
 MR. W. S. O'BRIEN  begged to substitute "the House" for "both Houses;" and on the Resolution in the amended form,
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  hoped that his hon. Friend would not press his Motion after what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet. He should be sorry to vote against his hon. Friend; but he believed that it would be better for the attainment of the object in view to leave it to the Government at present. If towards the end of the Session the Government did not bring forward some measure, then would be the proper time to revive the subject.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS , in seconding the Motion, said he believed that Mr. Duncan was a gentleman of that high honour and integrity which rendered him incapable of making any statement to the House without being thoroughly convinced of the accusations which he had brought forward, and of his ability to prove them. The charges brought forward by his hon. Friend (Mr. Duncombe) were such that the House could not refuse to inquire into them, unless they were prepared to proclaim to the country that public servants were justified in committing frauds on the public property. Here was a charge made that the public property was used to serve the private interests of an individual. He believed there was no department connected with the Government that more required looking into than the Post Office. There was a time when the Post Office was an example of correctness and order, but that time was gone by. He
 818 Directory Directory. Directory, 819
 MR. F. BARING  expressed his satisfaction that the question, which had threatened to become a general discussion as to the Post Office arrangements, had been brought back to its original purpose. The Motion, as he understood it, was not for a general inquiry into the affairs of the Post Office, but for a specific inquisition into certain allegations contained in the petition presented to the House. If the Committee for which the hon. Member moved were to be appointed, it could not inquire into such matters as alterations in the hours of delivery, or the appointment and distribution of letter-
 831 Post Office Directory 832
 SIR G. CLERK  said, that having observed in  The Times 789
 SIR. J. GRAHAM  said, he had no difficulty in stating that, so far from there being any neglect on the part of the Government to proceed with the colleges, charters of incorporation constituting those colleges had been granted; the presidents and vice-presidents had been appointed; at Belfast the site had been chosen, and he believed it had also been chosen at Galway; and within the last two or three days, the presidents and vice-presidents having been appointed, they had submitted to the Government the by-laws and the curriculum of education which they recommend for adoption.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that as it appeared by a decision of the Court of Queen's Bench in Dublin, that the exclusive rights of the various guilds in Dublin were not, as had been supposed, abolished by the Irish Municipal Corporations Bill, and as a Bill had been introduced into Par-
 790
 SIR J. GRAHAM : I have no hesitation in saying that at the time I wrote that letter I did contemplate the necessity of a reduction in the establishment.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that if the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just addressed the House anticipated from him an elaborate argument in reply, he could assure him that he was much mistaken. Had the hon. Gentleman taken the trouble to have communicated with him (Sir J. Graham) before addressing the House, he should have at once informed him that he had no intention whatever of opposing the present Motion. On a former occasion he had endeavoured to impress upon the House that it would not be possible for the Poor Law Commissioners to discharge the important functions entrusted to them, if they had not the unfettered liberty both of choosing and changing at pleasure their Assistant Commissioners, who represented them in many important particulars, and for whose acts they were responsible. He had endeavoured also on the same occasion to impress upon the House the great inconvenience which must necessarily arise from instituting an inquiry such as was now moved for. The House, however, differed from him upon that occasion; and
 806 807
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, the question put by the hon. Member was not one of policy, but one of fact and law. He believed the hon. Member was correct in saying that a tenant right existed in certain parts of Ireland, particularly in the province of Ulster. It was a right not resting on the written law, but having the force of law. But if he were asked whether it was recognised by the courts of law, he should have no hesitation in stating that he believed it was not. The process of ejectment was twofold; either by writ of injunction from the Court of Chancery, or by  habere habere, 794
 SIR R. PEEL : I do not think I should be justified in entering into any argument on the subject of the timber duties; but I will confine myself to the facts of the case with reference to the error in the return. My attention was called to it yesterday, when I was told that an error existed in the return. Although this return was presented by Her Majesty's Ministers to the House, yet, from the number of similar documents which they present it would be impossible for them to be responsible for the accuracy of these returns. That responsibility rests with the department by whom the return is made. No doubt it is of great importance that returns made to this House should be accurate; and, on understanding that an error existed, I made immediate inquiries. I directed that if it were found an error had been made, another document should be prepared and laid upon the Table of the House as soon as possible. There is an error in the return adverted to by the noble Lord. I desired that it should be corrected, and an accurate return made: and I believe that accurate return will be laid upon the Table tomorrow. The mistake originated with the Board of Customs, and I desired to know how it had occurred. I hold in my hand the letter of the officer by whom the return was certified; and perhaps the best course I can take is to read it:—
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said he should decidedly object to such a course. The question was one of detail, and not of principle.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the commission would then be confined to making certain preliminary inquiries which might be submitted to engineers or others, perhaps, as well as to that House. He did not wish to offer an opinion adverse to that proposal, as such an arrangement might have the effect of saving the time of the House as well as the public money; but it should be recollected that after the Commissioners had made their report, legislation on the subject would still be reserved for the House of Commons, and therefore the attendance of Irish Members would be required as before. Besides it was quite clear that the parties to whom the report would be unfavourable, would seek to be heard in that House, and that the inquiry would be transferred from the Committee-rooms to the floor of that House, and would take place, according to the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman, on the second reading. He thought there must be a general feeling in the House that they were not prepared for a discussion on so serious a matter that night; and he, therefore, thought it would be much more satisfactory that the hon. Gentleman should withdraw the Motion, than that they should be under the necessity of discussing it farther at present. It was impossible that they could assent to the proposition. All that
 848
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  thought it was very clear that the House was hardly prepared for the discussion which the hon. Gentleman had brought forward. There were so many Motions, so many connected with Ireland of which previous notice had
 846 847
 MR. DUSTCOMBE  said, that the Bill at the present moment was much misunderstood. There was no doubt that a great number of friendly societies now in existennce would be greatly circumscribed and crippled in their operations if this clause were allowed to stand part of the Bill. He proposed that these societies should, under the new Act, have the power of transferring their shares. A deputation had waited upon him that morning, from a friendly society, stating a case in which they would be interfered with. A few days ago some members of a friendly society wished to emigrate to Russia. They had been subscribers to their society for a length of time, and of course their subscriptions were worth something to them. After the passing of this Bill, they would be unable to withdraw their money, or to transfer their shares to any other persons, whether they were or were not connected with the society, and of course their money would be left behind them in this country.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the hon. Member who had objected to the clause did not refer to the object and intention of the 4th Clause—namely, giving the power of investment to such societies, for the purpose of support to the members, in provisions, fire, &c., with or without the assistance of charitable donations. An accumulation of funds by these societies must arise, and such accumulations could not be allowed to take place without regulation upon ultimate disposal. The hon. Member also who had last addressed the House (Mr. Rutherfurd) was desirous that shares held in friendly societies should be made personal. As regarded the powers of withdrawing money invested by the holders, that was at present allowed, generally, by the rules of the societies themselves—he meant as to the investment of savings. If a limit were placed upon the amount accumulated, he thought the object sought might, perhaps, be attained.
 MR. DUNCOMBE  said, that nothing could be more distinctly removed from his intention, than that the shares of these societies should be transferred promiscuously to anybody. What he wished to see effected, was this, that power should be given by the Bill to allow any Member, if desirous of leaving a locality, to dispose of his shares to any other member of the society. Nothing, he was ready to allow, could be so pernicious to societies of this nature as to sanction any proceeding of a gambling or speculative character. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department had stated his object in opposing the proposed alteration, to be that of putting down strike associations; and although he said it was right that men should combine for the purpose of raising the rate of wages, yet he could not allow the funds of these societies to be used for such purposes. But the fact was, that many associations of the character for which the Bill was designed, used their funds for such purposes to this day. A society of woolsorters in Bradford in Yorkshire did so. He contended that this Bill was calculated to circumscribe, in a very material degree, the operation of the present
 856
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that there were two questions involved in this discussion which ought to be kept entirely distinct: the first question was, as to whether any shares or interests in the funds of a friendly society should be allowed to be transferred or not; and the second question was, whether any such share or interest should be transferable by any member of those societies or his family. In the belief then, that the law still remained, and that it would still remain as it was expressed in this clause, it was desirable to retain the enactment, which was framed expressly with the view of preventing speculation among those classes of society to whom it was most mischievous. It was one of the chief duties of the Legislature to take measures for saving such an evil from taking place. It was true that if they had only to do with lawyers, the greater part of the interests of friendly societies would be well taken care of under the provisions of the present law. But in reference to the observation of his hon. Friend opposite, he must beg to observe, that the amount of the property of any contributor to a friendly society's funds, could no more be disposed of than could any one in the receipt of an income legally sell or mortgage his next quarter's salary. He most positively asserted that the transfer of any such power was altogether illegal;
 857 858
 MR. DUNCOMBE  inquired if those societies
 859
 COLONEL THOMAS WOOD  had not very closely examined the provisions of the Bill; but so far as he understood the nature of it, he was disposed to oppose it. He thought it would be productive of very serious inconvenience to county voters; and he should move that it be read a second time that day six months.
 MR. B. DENISON  had made that admission; but that was not the question.
 862
 LORD WORSLEY  read the following return of the number of votes recorded at county elections in 1841; showing that a large proportion of the registered constituencies recorded their votes on the first day:—
 
 
 Counties. Total Votes Recorded. First Day's Poll. Second Day's Poll. 
 Buckinghamshire 8,579 6,938 1,641 
 South Essex 5,127 4,218 909 
 Hertfordshire 6,415 7,919 1,406 
 South Northamptonshire 5,675 4,825 850 
 West Yorkshire 49,782 41,499 8,283 
 North Northumberland 3,480 2,762 718 
 East Cumberland 5,976 5,377 599 
 North Lincolnshire 13,743 11,103 2,640 
 East Sussex 5,302 4,290 1,012 
 South Derbyshire 11,020 8,645 2,375 
 South Leicestershire 7,563 6,936 627 
 East Cornwall 7,456 6,961 495 
 East Norfolk 8,313 6,863 1,450 861
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said: The hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Winchester has dilated at some length upon the conduct of those voters who say one thing and do another. He talks about those electors who are to be found hovering about the booths on the morning of the second day's polling, and who, he says, are induced to vote contrary to their promises. I hope that hon. and learned Gentleman will apply the principles he has laid down respecting the poor man to his own conduct, and bear in mind that when the Corn Laws are next brought under discussion in this House, he will vote as he promised his constituents he would vote. I hope, Sir, he will not forget how very reprehensible—how disgraceful it is to promise one way, and to vote another. For my own part, Sir, I am not anxious for change where I think change may not improve. I do not think it has been at all shown that the present law works badly, and will, therefore, support the Amendment of my gallant Friend the Member for Middlesex. The hon. Member for Durham argued against the present measure that before the Reform Bill fifteen days were spent in an electioneering contest. I cannot perceive how that argument bears upon the present law, which limits the days for polling to two. There may be an extreme upon one side as well as upon the other. I happen to enjoy a vote in three counties, situate in England and Scotland; but, if the present Bill were to become law, I could not exercise the privilege which the Constitution confers upon me. I will vote against the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. RUTHERFURD  had no objection to the caution manifested by the right hon. Baronet, but thought his object could be
 855 l.,
 MR. RUTHERFURD  thought that it was just and fair that persons who subscribed funds to a society should have the power of transferring them. He thought it would be better to have the clause stop at the word "transfer," and to leave out the words proposed by the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. ESCOTT : I hope the House will listen to me for a moment. The noble Lord has upon this, as well as upon one or two other occasions, spoken of me in a manner that I am not disposed to endure. All I can say, in reference to the noble Lord's conduct, is, that ignorance is commonly attended with presumption. I will not now enter into the topic to which the noble Lord alluded; but, if he had been "with me last week, the electors of Winchester could have set him right upon a matter in which he seems to be altogether misinformed.
 MR. ESCOTT  said, he did not think the Legislature ought to be called upon to alter the present law merely for the purpose of diminishing the expenses of contested elections; but for the purpose of promoting
 864
 MR. NEWDEGATE  opposed the Bill, and urged upon the Government and the House not lightly to interfere with the county constituencies pending the investigation upon the subject now going on before a Committee of that House, or hastily to judge of those constituencies by the past, as a criterion for the future, He was sincerely anxious to see the constituencies of the country fairly represented; but if this measure were agreed to, and the election for a county to take place in one day, the Anti-Corn-Law League might crowd the booths with their friends, and so interfere with the fair exercise of the franchise; and if the polling places were made more numerous, the sheriffs' expenses and the expenses of conveying the electors would be increased. He would meet the argument that the greater proportion of votes was taken on the first day, by referring to what had taken place before that House in the present Session. No less than thirty-six petitions had been presented, in the case of contested elections for cities and boroughs; and of these twenty-nine had been decided by Committees, and seven had been withdrawn; while only three had been presented in the case of county elections, of which two had been decided by Committees, and one withdrawn. He thought the Bill would have a mischievous effect, and he should support the Amendment.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  had listened with great attention to the speeches on both sides, but had not heard it satisfactorily explained how the present Bill was at all consistent with the full and fair exercise of the franchise. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, cautiously avoided that point. He had votes in five different counties, which were widely separated from each other. He was anxious, in the present state of affairs, to record every one of these votes; but, according to the provisions of the Bill, he should find it impossible. The noble Lord complained of the expense attending electioneering contests, and stated that he had stood three of them. He had stood six of them; but he would not be in the least deterred from standing six more such contests. Hon. Members talked censoriously of days gone by, when contested elections were very different matters from what they at present were; but he regretted the day when a check had been put upon the free circulation of the wealth of those who could afford to lose it, and thought the beggarly parsimony of the present time ten times more shabby and
 865
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that the arguments urged against the present Bill had also been advanced when the existing system was proposed as an alteration of the Reform Bill. But the experience of limiting elections to one day in boroughs, proved how wholly untenable those arguments were. His experience led him to believe that the desire to place county elections on the same footing was universal. He believed it had been admitted even by the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire, that the whole of that county might be polled in one day.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  contended that to carry that object into effect, the word "or" should be introduced into the clause, so that the Bill might include all the friendly societies whose rules Mr. Tidd Pratt had certified. He moved to insert the word "or."
 MR. ELPHINSTONE  moved the Second Reading of this Bill.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  wished to state shortly his reason for opposing the Bill. He agreed with the hon. Member for Middlesex (Colonel Wood), and did not attach much importance to the question before the House, because practically he did not believe that the measure would have any material effect on the results of county elections. He was about to state the principle which ought in his opinion to guide the decision of the House. He thought it politic to reduce the expenses of contested elections within a certain limit; and that limit was the consideration due to the full and free exercise of the franchise. The paramount consideration was not whether the expenses of candidates could be reduced, but whether such reduction was consistent with the full and free exercise of the franchise. He was bound to say he did not think it was, trying the present measure by that test. He perfectly agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire (Mr. B. Denison), that the analogy between counties and boroughs could not be sustained. No Bill had ever met with greater approbation than that for abridging the time for elections in boroughs. But it must be observed that residence within seven miles was an indispensable condition of voting in boroughs. In reference to counties, there was no such limitation; and in some counties it appeared that so many as one-fourth of the electors were non-resident. This discussion was in some respects rather a game at cross-purposes; the facts adduced by the noole Lord (Lord Worsley), for the purpose of showing that the number of voters on the second day at various contested elections was so small as not to affect the result, might bear a different construction. He had no idea that the number of voters who voted on the second day was so great. He knew two constituencies—the one the largest in England, Middlesex; and the
 863 bonâ fide
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, he wished to be perfectly candid on this matter. He was perfectly willing to admit the right of persons to combine against their employers, for the purpose of getting higher wages; and under the existing combination laws, it was perfectly legal for them to do so. But he was afraid that the accumulation of those societies, which bore a high rate of interest, might be directed to the purpose of holding out under the strike with their employers for a long time. He was afraid that if they stopped at the word "transfer," without adding the words which he proposed to the end of the clause, facilities would be given to what, for the sake of brevity, he would call strike associations. He conceived the words he had proposed were quite necessary to prevent such an abuse.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that all the societies which had been established before the passing of the Act would stand on the same legal footing as they would do if the Act had not passed; but in case of any doubt being entertained by any of those parties in consequence of the legal foundation on which they stood, they might under the fifth paragraph of the clause apply to the Secretary of State and Attorney General for a new constitution.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that the hon. Gentleman was incorrect in stating that the tendency was to narrow and restrict the power of friendly societies. The object of the Bill was the reverse. The effect of the judgment of Mr. Justice Wightman, from which no appeal was made, was, no friendly society could be held to be lawful which was not  ejusdem generis, 854
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  would venture to say, that in any of the cities or boroughs there was not a circle to be found, of a mile in diameter, which would not contain at least two polling booths; but in the counties the diameter of a circle including two such booths, would not be less than six or seven miles. There was, therefore, little or no analogy between counties or boroughs in this respect to the facility of voting and the communication. In most instances twelve per cent. of the electors lived out of the counties; in some instances twenty-five per cent; the preamble of the Bill should, therefore, set forth that it was not desirable such out-dwellers should have the privilege of exercising the franchise at all. That would be the most honest mode of declaring the intentions of its promoters. He would support the Amendment of his hon. Friend.
 MR. BERNAL  supposed it was intended to read the Resolutions  seriatim, 912 l., l. l. 913
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the first question for the House to consider was the evils sought to be remedied. The first great evil was that alluded to by the hon. Member who spoke last, viz., that owing to the multiplicity of railway companies, and owing to their being entirely new institutions, the law upon nearly all questions that could arise was full of complication and uncertainty. No lawyer could, therefore, on the sudden be expected to answer a question. What was the state of things at the present moment? That railways authorized by Bills passed last year and the year before required a capital of not less than one hundred millions; and that for new schemes of this year's growth between two and three hundred millions more would be necessary. Even at the present moment, before any of the Bills were passed, the commercial interests were exposed to great injury and difficulty; in consequence of the withdrawal from circulation of the sums which were now locked up in the shape of deposits. The commercial operations of the great commercial and manufacturing towns of the country were seriously impeded. The House had it from the petition of the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool that such was the case in that great port; and Manchester, Leeds, in short, every great place in England and Scotland, was in the same condition. Not only were the operations of the merchants, bankers, and large capitalists, embarrassed and impeded by the existing state of things; but the small traders even were suffering under the same depressive influences to an extraordinary and most alarming degree, in consequence of all or the greater portion of their available capital having been paid up as deposits upon scrip
 914 915 916 917 l. l. 918 v. v. 919 bonâ fide 920 921 bonâ fide 922 bonâ fide, l. s. l., l., l. l., 923
 MR. B. DENISON  regretted that in the course of last summer Parliament had not attempted some preliminary interference with railway schemes. There were then outward signs which would fully have justified legislative interference. The spread of unsound speculation had injured wholesome trade in all its branches, by tying up capital which would have been otherwise employed. However, it was better to interfere late than not at all. He was sorry that his hon. Friend the Member for Sunderland was not present, because at the commencement of the Session he had deprecated interference with railway projects, and said that the country could bear an outlay for such purposes of fifty millions a year. He approved of the Resolutions, because they would enable parties to wind up; and the sooner the better. With reference to the question of time, it should be remembered that the Resolutions offered no hindrance to immediate meetings, and therefore, if directors did their duty, they would at once take advantage of the Resolutions, call their shareholders together, and thus save their deposits from solicitors and agents. There was another point to which he wished to call the attention of his right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Treasury. His right hon. Friend had, in his speech, alluded to Mr. Brunel's statement as to the increased cost of constructing railways. That statement had already been answered by the hon. Member for Sunderland; but he would add, that he had been in communication with persons in the habit of contracting for railway work, and they had informed him that the increase would be
 934 935 936
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  observed, that there was so general a concurrence in the main objects of these Resolutions, that it would be unnecessary for him to intrude any lengthened remarks. Some one or two objections had, however, been advanced to some portions of the proposal, and to the general course of the Government, upon which he would offer one or two observations. In the first place, it was urged that the Government might have interfered more directly, and at an early period. Every one who had paid attention to what had taken place upon the subject of railways during the close of the last year, must be aware that the extent to which undue speculation was then carried was such as to threaten great danger to the commercial and monetary affairs of this country. Placed in the situation he
 937 938 939 940
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that upon that point there was no doubt as to the law. The party could not recover.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL : It is perfectly clear that as the law stands, a person who has purchased scrip cannot recover back from the original allottee the price he may have paid for it. If he has
 941
 MR. WILLIAMS  understood the number of Bills which had been rejected for non-compliance with the Standing Orders, was between thirty and forty; for some of them, the longest lines, he understood, nearly half a million of money had been subscribed. He understood the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Solicitor General) to refer only to those Bills at present before the House.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the Resolutions applied to Bills at present under the consideration of Parliament.
 MR. GRAINGER  suggested that a clause should be introduced into the Bill, compelling every party who attended a meeting of shareholders to bring with him a document, showing that he had brought his scrip or interest in the company prior to the 4th April. In all other respects he thought the Resolutions objectionable.
 MR. O'CONNELL  thought the evils of the railway speculation had not been exaggerated by the right hon. Baronet opposite; and although he should not offer any opposition to the Resolutions which had been proposed, he could not help remarking how many different opinions might be formed of the proper mode of dealing with the subject. In his opinion they must establish something like a railway code, and they ought to have, too, a railway judge, and legislation might be so shaped that this judge should have jurisdiction to decide upon the several Bills which came before him. He would have the House recollect that there was nothing extravagant in this notion of having a particular judge to preside over a particular court. They had Ecclesiastical judges—Judicial judges — Admiralty judges — separate judges for the different courts of law—Criminal judges, and Registration judges, and why not have a railway judge? The hon. the Solicitor General told them that power would be taken in the Bill to compel companies to wind up upon certain conditions; but if they were to be compelled
 943
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that he had no hesitation in assuring the hon. Gentleman that there would not be the slightest additional responsibility incurred by scripholders by the adoption of the Resolutions before the House.
 MR. HODGSON  observed, that the Government had turned a deaf ear to all remonstrances on the subject up to 1844. But in that year, when trade revived, and any relaxation of the rule was unnecessary, they reduced the amount of deposits from 10 to 5 per cent. As to the existing regulations fixing the amount at 10 per cent, that was introduced at a late period of the Session, and speculation had previously been carried to a great extent.
 MR. MOFFATT  seconded the Motion. The importance of the subject would, he hoped, be accepted as his apology for occupying the attention of the House at that late hour. This was no mere fiscal question, no mere question of the amount of revenue to be derived from a particular article, but a question affecting the permanent welfare of our all-important Indian commerce; for, let it be kept in mind, the commerce of England, India, and China, were so closely interwoven, that, unless the China commerce with England and India was flourishing, the English commerce with India was nearly affected. What was the state of our commercial intercourse with China? That we exported to China five millions of goods annnally, and only took from China three millions of its commodities in return, receiving the balance in bullion. The exports of Great Britain and India together to China, in 1844, amounted to merchandise, 4,016,264 l.; l.; l. l., l. 961 l. l. s. d., 962 l. d. d.; s. d. d., s., d., d. 963 l.; l., l. l. s. d. l.; l. l. 964
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was understood to say that he had no objection to the production of the memorials moved for by his noble Friend. If they were laid before the House, no doubt important information would be furnished by persons most conversant in the trade. The hon. Gentleman opposite seemed to think that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) should be prepared to state whether the Government meant to propose a reduction in the duty on tea. Now he did not think that it was consistent with his public duty at present to say what were the intentions of the Government. His noble Friend had taken a very correct view of what would probably be the financial state of the present Session. It should be recollected that the revenue on tea was very little short of five millions, and that
 965 l., l.
 LORD G. BENTINCK : Sir, I have no desire to discourage railways when they are established upon a sound and wholesome basis, but am rejoiced to see measures passed which are calculated to encourage safe and legitimate enterprise. As regards observations that have been made by hon. Members, I cannot altogether concur in their unqualified approval of the conduct of Her Majesty's Government
 944 l. l. l.
 MR. DISRAELI  said: Although the House is not so full as I have seen it upon other occasions, I believe it will not be denied that the question we are discussing is one of great public importance. Sir, I
 952 953 954 "The tendency of the improvements which were almost daily introduced, was decidedly in favour of the shortest lines. He had expressed this opinion in the year 1839. They had chosen to establish a railroad between Liverpool, Manchester, and London; and it was thought desirable that it should go round by Birmingham. Include Birmingham, by all means, in your line between Liverpool and London: it is useless to take a shorter line, through a country much less productive. He then ventured to predict that the people of Liverpool and of Manchester would not be sent round ten or twelve miles out of the direct line in their journey to the metropolis." 955 Hansard, 956 peccavi; 957
 MR. C. BULLER  rose to put a question to the right hon. Baronet, of which he had given him notice. It was a lamentable state of things to which it related. It had been reported, that during the late insurrection in the Austrian province of Galicia, the authorities had issued a proclamation offering a reward of so many dollars for the heads of different gentlemen who should be brought in, dead or alive. The question he wished to put to the right hon. Baronet was, whether it were true that the Austrian Government had addressed a note to the European Courts contradicting or explaining that report? and, if so, whether a copy of that note could be laid before the House?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  thought the Resolutions before the House much needed, but he could not concur in an expression of an hon. Member, that the country was recovering from the vortex of speculation. It could not be denied that much gambling, loss, and ruin had already accrued from railway schemes. He thought the right hon. Baronet trusted far too much to the restrictive influences of the year 1844. That it had laid a heavy hand upon speculation was perfectly true. It appeared to him that the fact of requiring deposits had given the railway scrip and railway shares a character for which other things had neither the claim nor the credit. He rose merely to suggest to the consideration of the Government the registration of all
 930
 MR. PACKE  agreed in the Resolutions before the House. He believed there had been railway lines put forward merely for the purpose of preventing competing lines which would afford a useful railway communication; he thought it unfair, by such a proceeding, by such a cajolery, to deprive persons of the advantage of railway communication.
 MR. CARDWELL , without taking any notice of the concluding observations of the noble Lord, begged to state that if Her Majesty's Government could be said to have caused speculations in railways, they did so under these circumstances only—that previous to 1844 trade was not in a
 945
 MR. FRENCH  wished to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet and Her Majesty's Government to the injustice, in relation to the railways proposed to be constructed in Ireland, of passing the Resolution as at present worded. At the commencement of the Session, such had been the anxiety professed by the House to extend the advantages of railway communication to Ireland, that the privileges of the House were placed in abeyance; and to ensure their speedily passing into law the Irish Railway Bills were sent, in the first instance, into the other House of Parliament. There were forty-three Irish Railway Bills now before the House of Lords, five of which were waiting for a third reading. He trusted the promoters of these Bills might not be placed in a situation of peculiar hardship. If this Resolution were adopted, the Irish Bills now waiting for a third reading in the House of Lords would be subjected to much unnecessary delay. He would suggest to the right hon. Baronet that the promoters of English Railway Bills originated in that House should not be required to comply with these Resolutions before the Bills passed that House,
 909 London Gazette 910 bonâ fide 911
 MR. HUDSON  fully concurred in the course which had been pursued by Her Majesty's Government, believing that if they had brought forward the proposed measure at an earlier period of the Session it would not have received that general support which it was now likely to obtain. It would have the effect of placing the parties interested in railways on a solid basis.
 927 928 l. s. s. l., s. s. l. l. l.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Solicitor General) had adverted to two questions of great importance, which, though not unconnected, yet had no necessary connexion with each other, so far as the present debate was concerned. One was the Bill to regulate and amend the law by which joint-stock companies were constituted, which the Government had announced their intention of bringing in; and the other, the Resolutions which were now the subject of discussion. He should, in the few observations he was about to offer, confine his attention to the Resolutions. All he should say with regard to the Bill which the Government had announced their intention to introduce, was, that he heartily rejoiced that they had turned their attention to the subject, which was one of equal difficulty, urgency, and importance. He was perfectly unqualified to express an opinion upon the provisions of the Bill which the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Solicitor General) had detailed; and he would only say, that anybody who had paid attention to what was going on in the country, must have seen that it was absolutely necessary the vigilance of the Government should be directed, and the intervention of the Legislature asked, for a state of things which was producing scenes of confusion extremely prejudicial to indi-
 924 925 926
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the hon. Member for Shrewsbury and the noble Lord the Member for Lynn had taken an unjust and ungenerous course in opposition to the Government. They threw the whole discredit of the railway speculations upon the Government. But time was when they were as loud as any in praising the Government. It was only when Ministers proposed to repeal the Corn Laws that these Gentlemen found out they were undeserving of their confidence. The true secret of the late violent speculation was, that for many years capitalists had made no profits; and that as soon as a period of sunshine occurred, they wished, in the words of the adage, to "make hay" in it. Hence the rash and insane desire to obtain in one year an amount of profit that ought to be spread over two or three, or several years. He believed that when the Corn Law was repealed, speculations would become more steady; and that they would not see trade prostrate one year, and excited to an extraordinary degree in another. These fluctuations had arisen from the interference of that House with the trade of the country, and when that interference was withdrawn those fluctuations would cease. The noble Lord opposite (Lord G. Bentinck) was the
 958
 MR. J. A. SMITH  expressed the satisfaction he felt that this most important question had been brought under the notice not only of the House but of Her Majesty's Government, and he sincerely hoped, notwithstanding what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that before this discussion closed the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government would give some expression to his sentiments upon a question which involved far greater and even more important interests than those of the mere consumers of the article of tea. While he admitted that the question of revenue must be paramount in the consideration of the Government, yet he in his conscience believed that by a reduction of the duties on that article of import, one of the most important openings to commercial enterprise that ever occurred would be secured, if an intelligent and wise use was made of the opportunity. Something ought to be done to meet the liberal tariff of the Chinese Government. Confirming, as he was able to do, in the strongest possible manner, the statements which had been made as to the condition, during the last eighteen months, of the tea-trade by his hon. Friend the Member for Dartmouth (Mr. Moffatt), he could assure the Government that unless a great change was made in the tea duties, and that the limits which were put upon the trade with China were removed, the commerce between this country and China would undergo a most serious and rapid decrease. Although he did not expect that the Government would be prepared to give any pledge on the subject, yet he hoped some evidence would be given to-night which would satisfy the House and the public that this important question occupied the attention of the Government, and that the interests neither of the consumers nor of those trading to China would be lost sight of.
 MR. M. MILNES  said, that it had been before proved that many companies, beneficial to the public, had not originated in a way which would bear the strictest inquiry; and though the hon. Member's inquiries would be extremely amusing, and the "Mysteries of Capel-court" might rival in popularity the  Mysteries of Paris,
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  moved the Resolutions which he read in his speech.
 MR. T. S. DUNCOMBE  believed he should be able to prove that the speculation in railways had been encouraged by people totally unconnected with the Ministry—he wished he could say equally unconnected with the two Houses of Parliament. The only blame he could attach to Her Majesty's Government was that they had not come sooner forward to say what ought to be done. In November last, the amount of railway business likely to come before Parliament was known; yet here the House had been sitting for three months, they were at the present moment floundering in the midst of an accumulation of Railway Bills, and at last the Government produced for their consideration a proposition to wait for the opinion of the present scripholders before proceeding to the third reading of such Bills. The right hon. Baronet stated that circumstances had greatly changed since these parties embarked in the undertakings with which they were severally connected; but did the right hon. Baronet suppose that they were the parties who embarked in these undertakings in September and November last? It did look very suspicious when such approbation and unanimity appeared among parties connected with the Stock Exchange in support of the Government measure. They might depend upon it that they were not going far enough. The right hon. Ba-
 946 bonâ fide "That it be an instruction to the Committee on every Private Bill originated in this House relating to any Railway, before proceeding with the merits of such Bill, to require to be produced before them, and verified by the Promoters—1. A copy of the original Return made for the purposes of Provisional Registration, with the names of the Promoters as then registered." l. "2. The names, residences, and descriptions of the present and past Provisional Directors, Trea-
 947 "3. The present and proposed amount of the Capital of the Company. 4. The number of Shares and the amount of each Share. 5. The number of Shares actually allotted, with the names, residences, and descriptions of the original Allottees, and the number of Shares allotted to each." "6. The amount of Subscriptions paid up by such original Allottees. 7. The amount of Shares retained by or for the Provisional Committee. 8. The amount of Subscriptions actually paid up by such Provisional Committee, upon the Shares originally allotted to them." "Sir—I beg to forward to you a prospectus of the projected Portsmouth and Langston Railway and Dock Company, of which I respectfully solicit your perusal. The fact of the Lords of the Treasury having made a grant of the site for the proposed docks, coupled with the cminency of the engineers, Messrs. Rennie, and the high character and respectability of the solicitors, Messrs. Coverdale and Lee, will, I trust, in your opinion, fully warrant my application to you to become one of the provisional committee for carrying out this great national undertaking; and in that case to
 948 "J. POLE, Assistant Secretary." "Sir—I request you to insert my name as one of the provisional committee of the Portsmouth and Langston Railway and Dock Company." "Sir—On behalf of myself and the other projectors of the Portsmouth and Langston Railway and Dock Company, I hereby guarantee you, as a member of the provisional committee, against all costs, charges, and liabilities whatsoever in any wise relating to this undertaking. "GEORGE N. WHITE, Secretary." 949 "9. The original Subscribers' Agreement, signed by the Allottees;"  and and of the liabilities of the proposed Company: "11. A statement of the source whence the (Parliamentary) deposit was paid  to the Accountant General, whether out of the deposits or by loan, bonâ fide, 950 l., "12.  A statement of the source whence the additional 5 per cent required to be paid by the other House of Parliament will be paid or raised. " And that, in case the said Committee shall find that these particulars, or any of them, are not furnished, or shall be of opinion that the said intended railway was not originally proposed, or has not been carried on or from any other cause is not likely to be executed if the Bill be passed, the said Committee shall desist from proceeding with the said Bill, and shall report the facts to the House. And that the Committee reporting on the Railway 951 Bill
 MR. M. GIBSON  asked the Solicitor General—Suppose a person bought scrip in the market, who had no liability whatever, not being bound in any way, having signed no Parliamentary contract; if that person attended a railway meeting, where he acknowledged himself as a shareholder in the concern, by his so attending, was not his position altered, and consequently, was he not liable?
 MR. GISBORNE : Then am I to understand that in such a case the bargain would stand?
 MR. GISBORNE  said, whether the Government had interfered or not at the right time, there could be no doubt they had interfered in the right direction. The measure to which the right hon. Gentleman had just alluded was in all respects an enabling and not a restraining Bill. The Resolution placed, as he understood, the scripholder in the same position as the original allottee—that was right, as the scripholder was the party directly interested. But he was anxious to be set right upon one point. Many parties had purchased scrip at a large premium from the original allottees. If the Bill which had been alluded to, should not pass in the present Session, it was doubtful whether the holder could not recover from the allottee the money so paid for the scrip—how would that affect his interest in voting?
 MR. WYSE  said, there had been a considerable improvement in the consumption of tea in Ireland, particularly in the towns, and that consumption was likely to be still further increased if a reduction of duty should take place. Considering the evidence before them, with respect to the increased consumption of coffee resulting from the diminution of the duty on that article, they should expect that the same result would follow from the reduction of the duty on tea. It should be recollected, that the establishment of the principle of temperance had tended to supersede the use of spirituous liquors and other drinks of that description, and that fact alone should afford an additional inducement to the Chancellor of the Exchequer to reduce the duty on tea.
 MR. W. COLLETT  (Stamford)  had no hesitation in saying that  bonâ fide 942 bonâ fide
 MR. ENTWISLE  supported the Motion, and said the duties upon tea offered a fair subject for the application of those principles of free trade which had occupied so much attention on both sides of the House. He reminded the House that the people of China would trade with those countries with which they could do so on the most equitable terms; and their good feeling towards this country depended upon the liberality with which they were treated. He conceived that an opportunity like this of largely extending their trade with that country should not be
 967
 MR. F. T. BARING  said that in Committee he had objected to any legislative interference with the employment of capital, and since then he had seen no reason to alter his opinion. He regretted that the less, because the right hon. Baronet had so framed his Resolutions as to effect beneficial results without at all touching on the principle. To the Resolutions he had not the slightest objection. They afforded a remedy in accordance with the wishes of the proprietors, and made no attempt to
 933
 MR. M. PHILIPS  said, that notwithstanding what had fallen from the hon. Member who had just sat down, he must say that he should have been glad had the Government interfered at an earlier period. He had himself thought of proposing a measure some time ago, but upon canvassing his Friends he found that he should have had no support in that House. At any rate he had no hesitation in asserting
 929
 MR. WARD  observed, that in so far as the railway schemes were concerned, the Parliament had prescribed certain conditions which were complied with. The mania that had prevailed had been compared to the Mississippi and South Sea schemes. He agreed in the propriety of the comparison, and thought that a vast amount of money had been diverted from its legitimate channel; tradesmen had been induced to enter into these speculations, and to invest in them those moneys which ought to have been reserved for their own business, and the consequence was great embarrassment. But what was Parliament to do, under the circumstances? Such a state of things had never before presented itself. With these Resolutions he had no fault to find, because he said that unless a board of directors could get a third of their shareholders to consent to the carrying on of an undertaking, there could be very little satisfaction in their proceedings. He also thought the proposed machinery sufficiently simple. He should have been better pleased had the Resolutions been made applicable to stages of a Bill previous to the third reading, because at present the provisional directors of an inchoate scheme had no discretion: they must go on incurring expense until relieved by a Bill now before the other House of Parliament. He should therefore have been glad to see these Resolutions apply to the early stages; but he had been told that considering the advanced period of the Session, and the position of the Railway Bills, this would be impossible. He regretted the circumstance, but he felt assured that all directors who took a proper view of their own interests, and those of their constituents, would, before their Bills had gone through the Standing Orders, avail themselves of the powers given by the Resolutions, and ascertain the sense of their shareholders before incurring any further expense. In the third Resolution he did not clearly understand the right hon. Ba-
 931 bonâ fide 932 bonâ fide
 SIR R. PEEL : The Austrian Government has not made any communication to our Government upon the subject to which the question of the hon. and learned Gentleman refers; and I am not aware that the Austrian Government has made any official communication upon the subject to any other European Government; it has certainly made none to this. A communication, authorized by the Austrian Government, has been made, not to this Government, which contains a most peremptory contradiction of the report.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he did not intend to impose upon the scripholders the necessity of holding two meetings to petition the two Houses of Parliament; it would be clearly sufficient to hold but one meeting to obtain the certificate each House would require as the result of such meetings. With respect to the hon. Gentleman's observations respecting Bills in the other House, he could not of course speak for the House of Lords; but in respect of the House of Commons he should propose in the case of all Bills which had gone through their preliminary stages, that the third reading should be postponed until these Resolutions, if agreed to, should be complied with. With regard to the last point mentioned by the hon. Gentleman, and the difficulty that would arise if two meetings should come to an opposite determination, he did not see why those who attended the first meeting should not attend at the second, in which case it was quite clear there would be no difficulty.
 SIR R. PEEL  then rose and spoke as follows: I gave notice two days since that I should feel it to be my duty to call the attention of the House to the state of railway business which is now pending and waiting for the decision of Parliament. No one can be more impressed, Sir, than I am, under all ordinary circumstances, with the importance of adhering to the great principle of permitting in this commercial country the free application of individual enterprise and capital; and although I certainly must contend that there is a distinction between the ordinary application of capital to commercial enterprise, under existing law, and the demands made upon Parliament to give to inchoate companies large powers of taking possession of the property of others, and establishing, as I fear is the case in many instances, a qualified monopoly, yet that general principle is so valuable, that even with respect to that species of commercial enterprise which seeks to be invested with the authority of Parliament, I should be unwilling, under all ordinary circumstances, to interfere. I should think it the better rule to assume that individuals are the best judges of the mode in which their capital can be profitably employed; and as the usage has been for Parliament to grant certain persons certain powers, where there
 893 l.; l., l. 894 l., l., l. l. l. l. l.; l. l. l., l., l. l. 895 l. l., l. l.; l. l.; 896 "The prices have so increased since Acts were obtained, that the lines mentioned above the Oxford and Worcester, and the Oxford and Rugby, cannot be constructed at the estimated price." "At that point of the proceedings the chairman said the Committee thought it unnecessary to hear any more evidence respecting the Oxford and Worcester Railway; and, after the room had been cleared a few minutes, the chairman stated that the Committee considered that the preamble of the Bill (the London and Oxford) was not proved." 897 l. l. l. s. 898 "One of the greatest deceptions of the new companies has been the holding back of large portions of the shares"—(that is, the shares formed by the provisional committee, that committee inviting persons in all districts of the country to commit themselves as parties to companies hereafter to be established)—"One of the greatest deceptions of
 899 l. l. l. l. l. l. 900 901 902 903 904 905 906
 VISCOUNT SANDON  then moved for copies of all memorials addressed to the
 959 d. d. d. l., d. 960 l.
 VISCOUNT SANDON  saw with hearty satisfaction the course the Government had adopted on this question, the more so that it accorded with the suggestion he had himself made, for giving the parties themselves the power to proceed with or abandon the undertaking. At any rate it would have the effect of clearing the Table of a deal of rubbish. But he must say that with regard to branches emanating from established companies, he should take particular care not to confine himself specifically to the branches brought before Parliament by those companies, but should consider it his duty to see the plans of other schemes that had been before Parliament to accommodate that locality. He would examine their plans, and if he found they were likely to be of more service to the public, and there was a probability of their being ultimately carried into effect, although dropped for a time, he should feel himself quite justified in rejecting the Bill of the established company, not because it would not be advantageous, but because he thought there were other lines more advantageous. The adoption of such a principle as that was the only way in his opinion of escaping from the difficulty of adopting those inferior projects, whilst others more advantageous were driven out of the market. He trusted the effect would be to give an additional impetus to the industrial energies of the country, by employing the large amount of capital which must otherwise have lain in a comparatively dormant state.
 MR. V. SMITH  would not enter into the details which had been gone into on the present occasion, astutely enough, by the hon. Member for Limerick, for the purpose, no doubt, of procrastinating the
 993 l.
 MR. O'CONNELL : I am sure I have never been churlish in acknowledging the evident disposition of the Government to adopt measures to meet the present emergency. I should have been ashamed of myself had I been so; but I have now to complain, I have to join in the general complaint, of the inactivity of the persons employed by Government in Ireland to superintend the distribution of food, of their unnecessary diplomacy, their wearisome references from one to the other, of the wanton delay in some localities, the tediousness everywhere. Why, can Government point to one single spot in which effectual relief has been administered? But while I say this, I must add that I was very glad to hear the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Stafford O'Brien) speak as he did in high praise of Lord Lincoln and his commission in Ireland, and I hope that Government will strengthen their hands. But, Sir, I think that Government has fallen short—that more money—a great deal more money will be necessary. I am not asking it as a favour. I am not here in mendicant form, appealing to you for alms for Ireland. Advance money. You have a security for it—tax landed proprietors—take a discretionary power—you have done so in the Coercion Bill. Well, transfer that discretionary power of taxation from the Coercion Bill, and employ it better. Send round persons to find out the situation and circumstances of each landlord, and tax him accordingly. Does the landlord, like the hon. Member for Northamptonshire, do his duty? Then tax him lightly; and as he neglected it, then tax him heavily. It may be said these are unconstitutional doctrines. Sir, the people are starving, they are dying: while you are here canvassing constitutional doctrines they are perishing of hunger. Did you not hear the evidence given in the returns laid on the Table of the House? Did you not hear how this family had but two, that family had but one day's supply—how another family again had been eight-and-forty hours without food—and how a further eight-and-forty hours' suffering would land them in their graves. Then, I say to Government, do not delay. Act firmly—act boldly. We have heard from every side declarations of benevo-
 1007
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  said, as the present discussion had lasted so long, he would move that the House should adjourn.
 MR. H. HINDE  might have laboured under a wrong impression, but he certainly noticed that the right hon. Baronet had cheered; and, noticing that, he (Mr. Hinde) was about to protest against it, to appeal to the good taste of the right hon. Gentleman, and to ask him if it were right or proper that he should cheer such sentiments as those of the hon. Member for Stockport. He had also noticed—and he might be mistaken—that the right hon. Baronet had been cheering some time before, and it had appeared to him that when the right hon. Baronet first ceased to cheer it was not at the expression referred to, but at the succeeding expression—to the effect that the feeling out of doors had settled the matter long ago. He had never entertained a doubt of the correctness of his observations, and now, when an hon. Gentleman had made a statement to the House, under an erroneous impression, and had been called to account for that statement, those who, with him, had entertained the same impression, were bound, in fairness, to come forward and state the fact, in order to show that the hon. Gentleman had said nothing which was unreasonable or extraordinary.
 MR. BROTHERTON'S  impression was, the right hon. Baronet had not given any approbation to the definition of the hon. Member for Stockport, that the towns constituted the people. The hon. Member for Shrewsbury, with his actual acuteness, generally managed to pervert some expression, and to turn it against the right hon. Baronet; that was the hon. Member's cleverness; but on this occasion it was a gross perversion.
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  had sat exactly half-way between the right hon. Baronet and the hon. Gentleman. He heard the remark of the hon. Member for Stockport; it was cheered ironically by his noble Friend the Member for Lynn, and by his Friends around; but the right hon. Baronet did not cheer it at all.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  was not in the House when the hon. Member for Stockport made his speech; but he understood
 1018
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said: Sir, I will first offer to the hon. Member my thanks for his courtesy in giving me ample notice of the question he has addressed to me. I concur entirely with him, that under ordinary circumstances it would not be fair to ask an independent and insulated Member what his intentions were, as to any measure to be introduced into the House. But I do admit, Sir, that under the particular circumstances in which we are placed—when we have a Ministry endeavouring to govern the country, while no more than 112 hon. Members place confidence in them—and while those with whom I have the honour to act and agree, number 240, constituting, together with the Irish Members, a clear majority of the House—under such extraordinary circumstances, the hon. Member was entitled to put to me the question he has asked, and to which I shall be glad to give a frank and honest answer. Sir, the question put to me is, whether my hon. Friends around me would support Ministers, were they to introduce a measure—not for the abrogation and abolition—but simply for the suspension of the Corn Laws as respects Ireland—for three months? Sir, I may be permitted to enter perhaps at some length into the subject, in answering this question. The hon. Member has gone into a long catalogue of calamities, distressing to listen to, now prevailing in Ireland. It must have been painful to every Gentleman in the House to hear such an enumeration of miseries existing in Ireland. But I think it is yet more painful to the House to reflect that the present is no insulated or isolated case of such calamity, but that a similar story of woe might, year after year, with too sad truth be told. Sir, we have learnt from the Report of Earl Devon, and it is confirmed by the hon. and learned Member for Cork, that, taking one year with another, there are 2,300,000 destitute poor in Ireland. And there is nothing in the long statement we have heard, to lead me to suppose the distress now existing in Ireland exceeds much the distress that occurs in all times at this season of the year. Sir, I can assure the hon. Gentleman that he is not more anxious to supply relief to the people of Ireland, and assuage their miseries, than the Gentlemen who sit around me. But in our belief the measure alluded to by him would not afford any relief to the present distresses of the people of Ireland. I shall state to the House the reasons which induce those around me to be of opinion that
 986 987 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s., s. d. 988 s. d. s. s. d. s. d. s. s. d. l. s. l. s. s. d. s. d. s. s., 989 "The Repeal question shall be the qualification test for the representation of this county. My feelings on this subject, and those of all the Catholic clergy of this country, are in full coincidence with those of Mr. O'Connell. My writing to you only on this matter demonstrates the preference which I feel disposed to give you of my own vote, and whatever little influence I may possess, if I can do so with consistency." "I have always considered, and every passing day satisfies me more, that no two questions can be more identified than the repeal of the present Legislative Union, and the future prosperity of our country. The commercial views of Sir R. Peel will, I am satisfied, in a very short time become the law of this country; if so, they must have the happiest results for a Repeal of the Union, as they cannot fail to make Repealers of the landed aristocracy of Ireland. There is not a gentleman that I have conversed with on this subject that don't coincide with this view. The legislative enactments of Sir Robert Peel will drive out of the English market the agricultural produce of Ireland. Ireland will then have to
 990 991 l. l. l. l. s. l. l. l. l. 992
 LORD GRANVILLE SOMERSET , as far as he understood the objection of the hon. Member, believed it to be to the wording of the law as it at present stood. He did not know anything of the nature of the hon. Member's case; but the objection being to the Act of Parliament, he should say that he did not think that was the proper time to raise such a discussion.
 MR. B. COCHRANE  begged most distinctly to deny that he had ever said anything like what the hon. Baronet attributed to him. What he had objected to was, that sufficient notice had not been given him; that the meaning of the Act was to insure to Members an opportunity of being made perfectly acquainted with the nature of the charges about to be brought against them, in order that they might be enabled to meet them; and that such an opportunity had not been afforded him. The hon. Gentleman was proceeding, when
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  rose to put a question, of which he had given notice, to the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government, respecting the families of two deserving and unfortunate gentlemen who had lost their lives at Bokhara whilst in the service of their country. He meant Colonel Stoddart and Captain Conolly. It would be only an act of justice towards the families of those unfortunate gentlemen to make some provision for them, if only as a tribute of respect. He was not aware whether Colonel Stoddart had left any representative; but with regard to the representatives of Captain Conolly, he knew that any act of the right hon. Baronet would be most gratefully received, and he trusted that some provision would be made for them.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE , feeling the awkwardness of offering any remarks upon such an occasion, yet hoped that the House would kindly grant him its indulgence whilst he trespassed for a moment on its time. The Committee just appointed and sworn to try the merits of his return, would have to assemble to-morrow; and although he could have no hope that the House would deviate from the course usually followed in such cases, yet not for the sake of his own interest merely, but for the sake of the interests of other hon. Members who might thereafter be placed in a similarly unpleasant situation, he felt it his duty to call the attention of the House to the extreme difficulty in which he was placed, owing to the loose wording of the Act which provided the giving of notice of the objection to be made. By a clause in a recent Act, which he believed had been brought in by the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government, the time of giving notice had been specified. The clause ran thus:—
 "And be it enacted, that in all cases of controverted elections, or returns of Members to serve in Parliament, the parties complaining of or defending such elections or returns shall, by themselves or their agents, deliver in to the clerk of the General Committee a list of the voters intended to be objected to, giving, in the said list the several heads of objection, and distinguishing the same against the names of the voters objected to, before an hour not later than six o'clock in the afternoon of the day next before the day appointed for choosing the Committee." 978
 MR. DISRAELI : I wish to say a few words with reference to a circumstance which occurred during the discussion. I cannot help noticing an observation made use of by the hon. Member for Stockport, relative to a subject which at any time, or in any place, is well deserving of notice. I therefore think I may be permitted to advert to it in a few words. In making that observation the hon. Gentleman has favoured us with a definition, which, if public men were to indulge in very often, might be considered advantageous. He did more. He has threatened us with imputations: he has held up to us the terrors of popular reprobation; and has imitated the conduct of many great examples in not shrinking from adding a definition of that with which he has menaced us. The authority he has followed is familiar to all of us—even its locality is recollected—but I can inform the hon. Member that the street in which the three celebrated individuals who conceived they were the people of England lived is not any street in Stockport. We are told by the hon. Gentleman, without the slightest exception or modification, that the people of England are the people who live in the towns, and that definition was loudly cheered by one Gentleman, the expression of whose opinion or of whose feelings must always make a great impression on this House and throughout this country. I say, Sir, the right hon. Baronet the First Minister of the Crown, at the moment that the hon. Member for Stockport held up what he called the country party: I repeat it—I say again that the First Minister of the Crown—at a moment when the country party was threatened by the hon. Member for Stockport with the indignation of the people, when that threat was followed by a neat and terse definition of what the people are—namely, that they are the persons who live in towns cheered that definition. [ Cheers. 1016
 MR. DISRAELI : I need not say I greatly regret to trouble the House with this subject. I never anticipated this discussion; but as it has so unfortunately arisen, perhaps the House will not think I am arrogating to myself anything in now intruding for a few moments. I desire
 1021 1022
 MR. CALEB POWELL  observed that an account had appeared stating that Lord Kingston had applied for 500 l.
 MR. NEWDEGATE : Sir, I really think I must have been mistaken in my hearing. I beg to ask the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government if he said that an assertion made by an hon. Member of this House—the hon. Member for Shrewsbury—was false?
 MR. NEWDEGATE : I beg leave to apologize to the House. I was entirely mistaken as to what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet. But I beg—as he has adverted to the very marked denial he has given to the assertion of the hon. Member for Stockport—to make him aware that the assertion is but a repetition of what the hon. Member for Stockport a short time ago stated in a meeting at Leeds to be his impression as to the real meaning and feelings of the right hon. Baronet.
 MR. SPEAKER  called him to order.
 MR. ROCHE  begged to be understood as having made no charge against the officer employed by the Board of Works in the case to which he referred, but against the Board itself.
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  said, he had never listened to a speech in that House which gave him greater gratification and pleasure than the speech of the noble Lord opposite. Were it only for one principle laid down in that speech, namely, that on Irish subjects the voice of the Irish people, expressed through their representatives, ought to be potential, the speech of the noble Lord afford him the highest gratification. The noble Lord's weight in that House as a stateman, could not fail to cause such a principle to be hailed by the Irish people with the greatest hope and satisfaction. For his part, he (Mr. E. B. Roche) never felt greater hope for the prosperity and peace of Ireland, than he did on that occasion. For that principle, so boldly and clearly laid down by the noble Lord, he (Mr. Roche) thanked him most sincerely; standing, as the noble Lord did, at the head of a party whose confidence he possessed, and so justly. As an Irishman, he thanked him for the desire which he had expressed to relieve the people of Ireland from the abject misery which they were suffering; and now, if the people were treated with neglect or worse by the pre-
 995 d. 996 Morning Herald. Herald Times. 997
 MR. J. COLLETT  thought the hon. Member for Bridport had little cause to complain, comparatively with him (Mr. Collett); for of 4,000 electors who voted for him at his election, every man had been objected to in the petition which was presented against his return.
 MR. JOHN O'CONNELL  said, he was sorry, after the pacification he had just witnessed, that it had fallen to his lot to commence the war again. He had intended to have taken part in the debate which had arisen on the question of his hon. Friend the Member for Limerick; but he thought it was more convenient to delay his remarks on the topics which then arose until he regularly addressed the House. He would not dwell long on the subjects which had been touched on in that debate. They were so numerous that it was difficult to take them in their direct order. One subject which was mentioned with ominous frequency, was the extension of the Poor Law in Ireland. He had been reminded, during the progress of the re-
 1023 1024 1025 1026 1027 pari passu, 1028 1029 1030 Observer, l. 1031 1032 United Service, Journal, "The south segment of Ireland, between Galway and Waterford, which would become the theatre of French invasion, abounded with excellent harbours ….within a sealine of three hundred miles (going S. and W. about). Waterford, Cork, Kin-sale, Baltimore, Long Island, Crookhaven, Bantry, Kenmare, Valencia, Tralee Bay, Shannon, Galway Bay, Greatman's Bay, Ardbear Harbour, Ballinakeil Harbour, the Killeries, Gola Island, Lough Swilly, and Lough Foyle, besides minor harbours and roads, without fortification … In 1796, Hoche escaped from Brest, and by the elements alone was baffled in his invasion of Ireland. Three years after, in spite of our blockade, the French fleet got out of Toulon, captured Malta, and effected a landing in Egypt. In 1805, a similar success attended Villeneuve." 1033 "For the defence of Great Britain and Ireland we could not muster 45,000 men, half of which are at present required to keep the population of the latter in subjection. Ireland, with her disaffected population—the extent and vulnerability of her maritime frontier—the total absence of interior defences—is at once our weak point; and in the event of a war would become one of the preliminary objects of France. We have at this moment of profound and universal peace a large army in that country; but double that force would be required for its defence, under such a contingency, certain as it would be to be made the theatre of a powerful French diversion. It should be constantly borne in mind that the object of the French is not to conquer, but to ruin England. When Massena was asked if Napoleon's preparations in 1804, were for the conquest of England, he replied,  'Personne n'y songea; il s'agissait settlement de la ruiner!'" 1034 1035 "He knew that the policy of Sir Robert Peel in Ireland would be a sound and a wise one; that it would be dictated in a spirit of peace and conciliation—that he would study to promote the interests of Ireland, by developing its resources and improving the condition of the people; and that he would legislate for Ireland in a manner that would combine wisdom with moderation. The Government would pay court to no party. It would endeavour to do justice to all. It would not be the Government of a party, but of the entire Irish people; and he trusted, by the measures that would be adopted, it would not only deserve, but obtain their confidence and good will." 1036 1037 1038 particeps criminis. 1039 1040 1041 "The whole code relating to landlord and tenant in this country was framed with a view to the interests of the landlord alone, and to enforce the payment of the rent by the tenants; the interest of the tenants never entered into the contemplation of the Legislature." 1042 "These statutes are all statutes beneficial to the landlord, enlarging the remedy he had at common law, and giving him additional powers, either to obtain his rent, or, in default, to obtain possession of the land." "The civil bill ejectment system I consider more advantageous to the landlord than the tenant: it gives greater facilities and more summary power to the landlord." "The tenantry are in a low state of serfage; their condition is abject, their treatment haughty, their distance from intercourse with the lords of the soil immense; they are handed over to the tender mercies of agents, whose chief duty is the exaction by every possible means of the highest possible rent, and the mere collection is regarded by their employers as a full discharge of their duties." "Land is so essential in the dense agricultural population, that much beyond the amount of produce will be eagerly offered as rent:" "when the inevitable arrear comes on, further injustice is perpetrated; for instance, the tenant is made to bear all the burden of the poor rate by a refusal to allow any part of it till the last penny of rent is paid—a thing neither probable nor expected." "Does a landlord evince a disposition to let his lands at moderate rents? He is laughed at for
 1043 1044 Cork Examiner 1045 1046 1047 "Captain George D. Cranfield, agent to Powers-court estate, county Tyrone (p. 848, Devon Commission):—35. Is the tenant right, or sale of good will, prevalent in the district, and is it recognised by the landlord? It is prevalent, and the landlord is aware of it, and does not object to it. It is to a very great extent upon the Benburb estate.—36. What in your opinion is the effect of the custom? I think there is a manifest benefit to the tenant; and I think in some respects a benefit to the landlord, and in others a disadvantage. I think with respect to the landlord, his rent is always secured. In other places, if the tenant is threatened with an ejectment, he gathers up every thing he can and runs away. Under this system I know the tenants are most anxious, if served with an ejectment, to make a settlement at once. I think the advantage to the landlord is the security of his rent. If a tenant does go away, there are many ready to pay up the arrears. On the other hand, there is a bar to improvement; if the landlord wishes, for example, to get gentry upon his estate, how is he to do it? He must purchase his estate and make a good large farm for a respectable person to reside upon, without either breaking the custom or repurchasing his estate over again. He could not put eight or ten tenants out."
 MR. M. CORBALLY  had had his eye, it so happened, upon the right hon. Baronet, and he did not observe that he had cheered.
 MR. BORTHWICK  wished to state how the case stood. The hon. Member for Shrewsbury made an assertion, and repeated it. The right hon. Baronet rose and said, "I totally deny it." The hon. Member for Shrewsbury immediately said, in language which could not be misunderstood, "If the right hon. Member says that anything I said is false I cease," and then sat down. He regretted exceedingly that the right hon. Baronet did not then take that opportunity of explaining what he meant. If the hon. Member for Shrewsbury had not been of the same opinion as the hon. Member for Warwickshire, would he not have arisen again and continued his address? Was it less probable that the hon. Member for Shrewsbury should have been mistaken than the hon. Member for Warwick, or was the misapprehension of the former of less importance than that of the latter? He thought the right hon. Baronet would, on consideration, agree with him in the opinion he had expressed.
 MR. G. P. SCROPE  rose to express
 1008 1009 1010
 MR. BELLEW  agreed with the hon.
 998 999
 MR. COBDEN : It appears to me, Sir, that we have rather lost sight of the origin of this discussion, and I only wish to say a few words on that point. This rather irregular and unexpected debate has originated in a question put by the hon. Member for Limerick to the noble Lord the Member for Lynn, which it seems has arisen out of a private communication between them. That question of the hon. Member for Limerick was, whether the noble Lord the Member for Lynn and those who usually act with him would be willing to vote for a suspension of the Corn Law for three months, that suspension to be applicable to Ireland only. That I believe is a correct statement of the question of the hon. Member. But, Sir, we have another proposition before us, a proposition not to suspend, but to abolish the Corn Law, and I therefore infer that the object of the hon. Member for Limerick is, that instead of our abolishing altogether the Corn Law as regards England, Scotland, Wales, and Ireland, there shall be substituted a three months' suspension applying to Ireland only. Now, I beg in the first place to tell the hon. Member for Limerick, and the noble Lord the Member for Lynn, and the 240 Members who sit behind him, and who cheered the speech he has made to-night, that there are other parties to be consulted with regard to such a proposition—that there are the people of England—I don't mean the country party, but the people living in the towns, and who will govern this country. I tell him that the English people and the Scotch, and the Welch, and I believe the Irish too, are, from what I have heard,
 1011 1012 1013
 MR. COBDEN : The language which the hon. Member for Shrewsbury attributed to me has now been adopted by the right hon. Baronet. It is not my language. The hon. Member for Shrewsbury states, and the right hon. Baronet repeats, that I said the inhabitants of towns would dictate to the country. Now, that was not my expression. I said that the majority of the people would always do so; and I think I am correct in saying that the majority of the people of this country live in towns. I do not wish or desire that one section should dictate to another; but the majority will govern in all constitutional States; and the majority now will be found in towns.
 MR. R. DILLON BROWNE  could not agree with the hon. Member for Cork in thinking that Her Majesty's Government had done nothing on this occasion. He thought that they had shown a very benevolent disposition towards Ireland: but he considered that they had mistaken the means of carrying out their benevolent policy. With respect to what had fallen from the noble Lord the Member for Lynn, he quite agreed with him in thinking that there was a want of money, and not a want of food, in Ireland. He agreed that there was an abundance of food produced in that country, and that if there were employment for the people, and the means of purchasing food, there was a sufficient supply in the country itself to meet the distress. He also agreed with the noble Lord in thinking that the Legislature must establish some Poor Law system in Ireland. He had lately become a convert to this opinion. Some system must be established which would give to the people of Ireland an absolute title to relief. It had been said that Mr. Hughes had stated that the abolition of the Corn Laws would make the landlords of Ireland repealers; but Mr. Hughes did not make that statement, because he was not an advocate for the repeal of the Corn Laws himself. He firmly believed that Mr. Hughes was a friend to their repeal. If the repeal took place, the people of Ireland would get greater remuneration for their labour, because that labour would be employed in manufactures. He quite disagreed with the noble Lord the Member for Lynn in thinking that the repeal of the Corn Laws would be disadvantageous to the people of that country. He knew nothing more unfounded than such a notion. In the time of Charles II., there was an application from the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland (Lord Ormonde, he believed), stating that if the introduction of meat into this country from Ireland were
 1001 1002 d. s. d. d.
 MAJOR MACNAMARA : I think the right hon. Baronet has already sufficiently explained. He is not responsible for the speech of the hon. Member for Stockport, If any hon. Member thinks him responsible for it, or wish any explanation, this is not the place to call him to account.
 MR. W. SMITH O'BRIEN  rose to make a personal explanation of the part he had taken in the question before the House. He would not have taken the liberty of trespassing a second time upon the House if it had not been for the insinuations thrown out in the course of the discussion as to the motives which had actuated him and his hon. Friends around him. He begged to assure the House that he alone was responsible for what had occurred. On his arrival last Saturday the Papers relating to the distress in Ireland struck him so much, he felt so strongly the necessity of making provision for the coming danger, that he thought it his duty to write a letter to the noble Member for Lynn, which he would read to the House if they considered it desirable. As to the motives of the hon. Friends around him (Mr. O'Brien) who had co-operated with him, he could only say that not one of them knew of his intention to write till the letter had been sent.
 MR. W. SMITH O'BRIEN  said, perhaps he might be allowed to ask the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government, if he was prepared to give an answer as to whether he could accede to the proposition he had made; but if the right hon. Gentleman was not prepared to give an answer, then, he (Mr. O'Brien) would give notice of his intention to ask the right hon. Baronet the question on Monday night.
 MR. A. STAFFORD O'BRIEN  did not wish to bear hardly on any individual; but he must say, this was not the first time that he had had reason to suspect the Board of Works in Ireland. That Board, he thought, was not constituted in sufficient strength. When he went over to Ireland, a short time ago, he found the potato disease in his district was worse than he had expected. On finding what was the state of things, he immediately wrote to the Board of Works in Dublin; and the answer he got was of such a nature as to convince him that to write to them was of no use. He therefore wrote directly to Lord Lincoln, stating that he was willing and ready to employ his own people; but that many of the people in the neighbourhood were the tenants of non-resident landlords, and that it was totally impossible for him to employ them. He also warned Lord Lincoln that if he went on in the ordinary jogtrot way of the Irish Government, he (Mr. A. S. O'Brien) would not be responsible for the peace of the district; but that if employment were at once given, he was sure that all would go on well. He wrote to Lord Lincoln on the Friday, and on the Saturday his letter was received. On the Sunday he received a reply from Lord Lincoln, stating that he would take upon himself the responsibility of sending down an officer of the Government; and on Tuesday Mr. Griffith went over the ground, and the poor people were set to work on the Wednesday. Whatever, therefore, the hon. Member might say of the Board of Works, it would always be a pleasure to him to bear witness to the energy and patriotism of Lord Lincoln. He had great confidence in that noble Lord; and he believed that the right hon. Baronet might receive with great respect and deference any suggestions which were made by Lord Lincoln. He thanked the noble Lord over
 1000
 MR. W. SMITH O'BRIEN  rose to put a question to the noble Lord opposite (Lord G. Bentinck), of which he had given him notice, and which he had been good enough to say he would answer. It was this: Suppose Government were to bring in a Bill to suspend the operation of the Corn Laws, as regards Ireland, so as to admit grain duty free, would the noble Lord, and the party with which he was connected, support such a measure? The noble Lord would be sure to feel that the circumstances of the present hour were not of an ordinary character; and since this day week, when he (Mr. W. S. O'Brien) had called the attention of the House to the lamentable condition of his countrymen, Ministers had laid some documents upon the Table, which had been printed, and were now in the hands of every Member. He was confident that every Member must
 981 Morning Chronicle 982 983 Morning Chronicle Times, 984 s. d.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  said, that the Government had taken upon themselves the responsibility of providing food and employment for the Irish people; he quite acknowledged that they had used every effort to accomplish these objects; but they had fallen into the mistake of thinking that it was impossible to do any thing without the landlords. Now he put it to them whether their attempts had not failed, and whether it was not necessary, even in justice to the landholders themselves, to adopt some principle of taxation by which the holders of land would be compelled to contribute to the support of the poor. He was clear for establishing a system of taxation on that principle, and he hoped that either in the shape of a poor or a labour Bill some such plan would soon be brought forward. He had heard with sorrow his hon. Friend the Member for Limerick describe the repeal of the Corn Laws as simply an English question. He (Mr. S. Crawford) knew it was an English question; but his opinion was, that it was infinitely more important as an Irish question. What advantage had Ireland ever reaped from the Corn Laws? Where were the proofs to be found, either in the condition of the people or the improvement of the country? Let the question be tested by one circumstance—and let him be shown whether all the protection that Ireland ever had received had tended in a single instance to her prosperity. If they were to have taxation for the poor, then it was the more necessary that the supply of food should be ample and its price low. He did not approve of the Coercion Bill. He saw no value in it, and in any legitimate opposition to it on the part of the Irish Members he saw nothing to blame. At the same time, he hoped that they would not prolong the discussion longer than was necessary for the purposes of fair opposition. It was of great importance that the repeal of the Corn Laws should be gone on with as speedily as possible, for the interests of Ireland, as well as those of England. He did not approve of the proposition made that evening for the opening of the ports for three months, as far as Ireland was concerned, for he thought that the effect of such a measure would be to throw ob-
 1006
 SIR J. GRAHAM , in answer to the question put by the hon. Gentleman, said it was the invariable rule laid down in every Act of Parliament, where money was given for public works, that one moiety was only
 994
 SIR J. GRAHAM : After what has fallen from my noble Friend the Member for Lynn (Lord G. Bentinck), it is very inexpedient, and quite unnecessary, to prolong a discussion on this personal quarrel; but as I sat next to my right hon. Friend at the head of the Government, I am, I think, more competent for that reason than any hon. Gentleman in the House to ex-
 1019
 SIR R. H. INGLIS , as he understood the hon. Member for Bridport, believed his
 979
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : If he remembered rightly, Captain Conolly was in the service of the East India Company; Colonel Stoddart was employed by the Foreign Office; and for the characters of both he had a great respect, and felt deep regret at their unhappy fate. When, however, the hon. Member required him to mark that respect by a pecuniary provision for the relatives of the parties, he ought to bear in mind that the Crown had only very limited means of granting pensions. For-
 980 l.; l., l. l.
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, the hon. Member who asked me that question must have been mistaken—totally mistaken in his hearing. I never used the word false in reference to any assertion of the hon. Gentleman. What I said was, "I totally deny it." The hon. Gentleman the Member for Shrewsbury said that I cheered a particular expression of the hon. Member for Stockport—namely,
 1017
 SIR R. PEEL : Though somewhat indistinctly put, I can answer the question at once, and without hesitation. The hon. Gentleman wishes to know whether I am willing to substitute for the measure of the Government, leading ultimately to the utter
 1015
 SIR. R. PEEL : I totally dissent from the principle stated by the hon. Member for Stockport. I don't recognize, on the part of the people of towns, any sort of right to dictate to the people of this country. And why should I cheer? I did not cheer that particular expression referred to.
 SIR R. PEEL : I, of course, take for granted that there is an end of all unpleasant feeling in this matter. When there is a cheer, any hon. Gentleman has a perfect right to advert to that, and to draw an inference. But the hon. Gentleman will recollect his statement was, that I not only cheered, but that I accepted the definition. [MR. DISRAELI: In consequence of the cheer.] Yes; and then I rose and totally denied it. We were both under an erroneous impression; but I must say, that if we are not allowed to deny an erroneous assertion and the inference founded on that, without giving personal offence, there must then be an end to all freedom of discussion.
 MR. W. MILES  said, that he should not have risen to address the House on that debate, but for the observations thrown out by the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken. He could assure that hon. Gentleman, that he did not then wish to touch upon the question of the Corn Laws, as other opportunities would arise for him to do so. He wished to state to the hon. Member for Stockport, that that debate had entirely arisen from the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. S. O'Brien) having put a question to, and which was answered by, his noble Friend (Lord G. Bentinck) the Member for Lynn; and that question had been put by the hon. Member in accordance with the desire expressed by his noble Friend for him to do so, which was a matter of ordinary courtesy adopted by any hon. Members in that House who might wish to be in their place to reply to any proposition that they had previously received notice was to be made to them on any particular night; there was no compact, he said, between his noble Friend and the hon. Member opposite, beyond that ordinary courtesy which he had mentioned. He most sincerely lamented the state of misery which existed in Ireland. His noble Friend had answered the question put to him by the hon. Member for Limerick, and stated that he (Lord G. Bentinck) and the body—of which he was proud to say his noble Friend was the head—that they were willing to grant what the hon. Member asked, namely—would they give their support to the introduction of a measure, not for the abrogation and abolition but simply for the suspension of the Corn Laws, as regarded Ireland, for three months, in order that a sufficient supply of provision should be imported there to meet the wants of the
 1014
 MR. W. MILES  could corroborate the statement of the hon. Member. He had been most attentive to the speech of the hon. Member for Stockport, and directly the observations fell from him that the inhabitants of towns, and they only, were the population, he (Mr. Miles) looked towards the right hon. Baronet; he directed the
 1020
 MR. O'CONNELL : I wish to add one word on this subject. I am anxious to bear my willing testimony to the merits of the Marquess of Waterford as a resident landlord. It would not be in my power to use language sufficiently strong to express my sense of the merits of that most estimable lady (the Marchioness of Waterford), who has been alluded to by the hon. and gallant Member opposite. Her charities are most considerate, well managed, and abundant; and the Marquess of Waterford is certainly one of the best landlords in Ireland. The noble Marquess is as safe in his own country—in every part of it—as he could possibly be in this House; and his tenantry are very happy in having such a landlord. The only point on which I differ from the hon. and gallant Member opposite (Major Beresford) is, as to his complaint that these charges have obtained publicity in the newspapers. Let him recollect that the poor have, in many cases, no other defender than the press. The plan I adopted when charges were made against me in the press was to meet them at once through the same medium; and the result was that, though I may have been calumniated on many of those charges, the entire press of Ireland took part with me against my assailants. I think we should not discourage the press from taking up the cause of the poor; but, when a charge is brought falsely, as has been the case here, we ought to adopt the channel through which it is made as a means of rebutting it.
 LORD DUNCAN  inquired whether it were the intention of the Government to proceed this Session with the Health of Towns Bill, brought in last Session?
 MR. H. J. BAILLIE  could not understand why so much opposition had been made to the first reading of the present Bill. He considered that Government would not be justified in bringing forward any such measure, unless they were prepared to prove that they were acting from a paramount necessity. The question was, had the Government made out a case of necessity? Hon. Gentlemen opposite denied that they had done so, and several of them had gone so far as to assert that there was a greater amount of crime in England than in Ireland. But the question was not as to the amount of crime, but as to the impunity
 1093 1094
 COLONEL CONOLLY  said, that he had been instructed by the constituents of Donegal to support this measure as necessary to the security of the country, and to the suppression of the most atrocious crimes that ever degraded any country. He could not suppress his surprise at the conduct of hon. Gentlemen opposite, who admitted and deplored the cause, but refused to support this measure. His course was an easy one; he had been called upon by the county which he represented to support it, and he responded joyfully to that call. The outrages in Ireland were attributed to a variety of grounds of dispute between landlords and tenants; but no magistrate could sit upon the bench without perceiving
 1138
 MR. M'CARTHY  said: At this stage of the debate it is not my intention to trouble the House with long statistical details to prove what is the present condition of Ireland. In endeavouring to find a remedy for a great and admitted evil, the first consideration which naturally presents itself is the origin of the evil. Member after Member has risen in this House and has declared—and the statement has not been denied—that those outrages have their origin in agrarian causes—that they flow from that unhappy connexion which exists between the owners and the occupiers of the soil. What is the remedy which the Government proposes for the disease? The alleged object of the present Bill is to prevent crime, and to detect it when committed.
 1085 in toto 1086 "Brontesque, Steropesque, et nudus, membra Pyracmon." 1087 brutum fulmen. nudus membra, "No more of that, an thou lov'st me, Hal." 1088 1089 1090 "Hiving wisdom with each studious year," "It is a sad thing, but one well worthy of remark, that blood is shed in Ireland, in our days,
 1091 "Animasque in vulnere ponunt." 1092
 MR. HAWES  could not concur with the hon. and gallant Member for Armagh, in his recommendation of what he called strong and vigorous measures to put down agitation and agitators in Ireland. The hon. and gallant Member belonged to a party that might by this time, he thought, have gathered some wisdom from past experience, for they must have seen how little good those strong and vigorous measures had ever produced. He rose principally to make a few remarks on the grounds which had been advanced in favour of the Bill. The question he had to consider was, whether he could give his consent to the first reading of the measure, or whether he ought to vote for the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Cork, admitting the existence of the outrages, but affirming that they would be aggravated rather than removed by the Bill. He could affirm positively that the measure was considered to be of a decidedly unconstitutional character by many hon. Members upon his side of the House, and one which nothing could justify but a clear and proved necessity. Had that necessity been made out by Her Majesty's Government? It was upon this point he meant to take his stand; and he meant to tell the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department that, in his opinion, he had not made out a case to justify a departure from the ordinary laws of the kingdom, and resort to a coercive power. He understood that this Bill had been founded upon what the right hon. Baronet called an increase of crime in Ireland; and in making his statements the right hon. Baronet referred to two classes of crime; one reported by the stipendary magistracy, and the other by the police force. The reports from the first body related to crimes detected; and from the latter, in many cases, to undetected
 1098 1099 1100 1101 "That crime had decidedly decreased in Ireland for the last five years—that he has not had many instances of combination against property before him, and has had none at all recently—and that his district is remarkably peaceable." "That it includes the whole province of Connaught, Roscommon, Leitrim, Sligo, Mayo, and Galway. That the whole circuit has, during the last five years, been in a more tranquil state than previously." "That he does not remember Ireland so tranquil as it has been for some time." "The impression upon my mind, without having any written data to go upon, is, that crime has greatly decreased in Tipperary since 1836—that
 1102 "He is perfectly acquainted with the state of crime there; that it has lately diminished there; which diminution is attributable to the improvements in the administration of justice which have been made within the last four years." "That crime would probably be increased by the accession of a Government different in principle from the present." "He regretted to state that in those parts of Ireland where the laws had been administered with the greatest severity, where the greatest number of convictions had taken place, the terror arising from those convictions had scarcely survived the cause, when new combinations of a more extensive and dangerous character had obtained birth; and these combinations were carried on with a degree of secrecy which defied the operations of the law as it at present existed. He was satisfied that the measure he proposed would prevent the evils then existing. The measure was upon the report of an extraordinary session of magistrates; the district was to be proclaimed, requiring all persons, from sunrise to sunset to keep within their houses; that no person should be suffered to be drinking in a public-house after nine o'clock; and, finally, if detected
 1103 1104 1105 1106
 MR. CALEB POWELL  said, he had listened with great attention to the hon. Member, and he must confess that if he had any doubt before of the necessity of the measure, the speech of the hon. Member would have convinced him. He thought the only effect of the proposed measure would be to enable the honest voter to exercise his franchise; but at present the law had the effect of disfranchising dozens of persons of particular names—for instance, the O's and Mac's—the ancient Milesians, who were perhaps the best entitled to the franchise.
 MR. C. POWELL  said, a few nights ago he had taken the liberty of calling the attention of the right hon. the Home Secretary to a statement in a newspaper which excited in his mind feelings very different from those which appeared to be exhibited by the right hon. Baronet, and very different from what he manifested at accounts in Irish newspapers of Irish outrages. It appeared from a Sheffield paper that very great devastation had been caused in that town by an infernal machine. The account given of the matter was as follows:—
 "Infernal Machine.—Another cowardly attempt to intimidate and alarm respectable manufacturers
 1082
 MR. C. WOOD  acknowledged the courtesy of the hon. Member for Weymouth in giving him notice of his intention to put this question. He had not had an opportunity of commuuicating with the
 1079 1080
 MR. G. BANKES  did not rise to complain of the Committee for exercising the discretion vested in them by Act of Parliament, and declining to prosecute any inquiry into the allegations of bribery. He was disposed to hope, for the honour of the county he represented, that Bridport was as immaculate as any borough in the kingdom. He wished, however, to ask the Members of the Committee whether they had not decided a point which was not contained in the record? He had read over the petition, and he did not find any allegations relative to a scrutiny—any assertion that a vote tendered for one candidate had been entered as for the other. This was, he understood, the point upon which the Committee had unseated Mr. Cochrane. He, therefore, felt disposed to move that the proceedings of the Committee be printed before Mr. Romilly be allowed to replace Mr. Cochrane as the representative of Bridport; for he presumed it was not competent for the Committee to take into consideration any matter
 1081
 MR. RICH  said, that all Irishmen were
 1139 1140 1141
 MR. JOHN O'BRIEN , in reference to the observations made by the hon. and gallant Member, begged to observe, that his only object was to avail himself of the privileges of the House to prevent the passing of a temporary measure, that there might be adopted some remedy which would permanently and effectually lead to the suppression of crime in Ireland.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  begged to thank the hon. Member for Harwich for his courtesy in giving him an intimation of his intention to bring this subject forward to-night; and he appreciated the conduct of that hon. and gallant Member the more highly, because it might naturally be supposed that the gallant Member would be considerably excited at a charge of such a nature having been made against his noble relative. The hon. and gallant Member for Harwich had expressed surprise that he should be so ready to adopt this charge against the Marquess of Waterford, after he had so promptly contradicted a charge of a somewhat similar nature which had been trumped up last November against the hon. Member for Cork. The hon. and gallant Member was mistaken on this point. It was not he who repelled the charge made against the hon. Member for Cork. With regard to the present charge against the Marquess of Waterford, the hon. and gallant Member for Harwich must do him the justice to admit that it had been for some time before the public; that it had been repeated in two or three newspapers; and that no contradiction had been put forth. To other charges recently made, as to the eviction of tenantry, a contradiction had appeared within a reasonable time. He did not express any opinion as to the value of the contradiction given in those cases; but he must be allowed to say that he did not bring forward the charges against the Marquess of Waterford until an ample opportunity of contradicting them had been afforded to the friends of that noble Lord. He was happy to hear the explanation of the hon. and gallant Member for Harwich, and was bound to bear his testimony to the general merits of the Marquess of Waterford; and he must state that on hundreds of occasions he had heard persons most strongly opposed in politics to that noble Marquess express their wish that the landlords
 1076
 MR. PARKER  said, that he and his hon. Colleague had communicated with the Government; and the right hon. Baronet, so far from wishing to avoid a proper consideration of the subject, had assured them of his desire to take every possible step to promote the tranquillity of Sheffield, and to put down by every means in the power of the Government and Executive these outrageous and disgraceful proceedings. Among the inhabitants of Sheffield there was but one feeling of disgust and regret at them, mingled with consternation and alarm; because these outrages affected the stability and the prosperity of the trade of the town. It was felt that, if these offences were to go on, without the perpetrators being discovered, the hitherto prosperous trade and manufactures of Sheffield would be brought to an unfortunate conclusion. Every body, therefore, of every degree, was most anxious that the offenders should be discovered, and an example made of them. One matter which struck him he would mention to the right hon. Baronet—for destruction of property, committed in open violence, the hundred, the borough, or the district, was liable under the old Saxon law; but for offences of the kind just brought under the notice
 1084
 MR. POULETT SCROPE : I hope, Sir, that the House will draw the true moral from these charges against landlords and defences of landlords with respect to their use or abuse of their territorial rights in Ireland. Why, Sir, ought we to have any of these questions brought before us? How is it that we are called on from time to time to hold these sort of inquisitions into the exercise of the rights of property? For this reason only, Sir, that the public know, when a crowd of "wretches" in Ireland have their houses pulled down
 1077
 MR. ESTCOURT  reported, from the Committee on Railway Bills, Group 11—
 "That the Committee met at One o'clock this day, pursuant to appointment, and that William Smith O'Brien, esquire, one of the Members of the said Committee was not present, and did not attend the Committee within one hour of the time of meeting of the Committee."
 MR. WYSE  said, that he fully concurred with the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down in thinking that much inconvenience had arisen from the prolongation of this debate; and he also felt very sensibly the painful position which Irish Members were placed in in that House, with reference to the motives which had compelled them to adopt the course they had pursued with reference to this measure. The right hon. Baronet had himself, in introducing his Corn Law measure, declared that he considered it of such vast importance that he did not wish that any other measure should interfere with it; and most assuredly nothing but a paramount sense of the duty they owed their country, could induce the Irish Members to do anything that could impede that measure, the more particularly as it was looked upon as one which might have the effect of alleviating the evils consequent upon the scarcity which now prevailed in Ireland. He could not agree with the right hon. Baronet in thinking that the Government stood alone from the imputation of blame in this matter, although they had thrown it wholly on his side of
 1132 1133 1134 1135 1136 s. d. s. d. d., d. s. 1137
 MAJOR BERESFORD  regretted his accidental absence the other evening, when a statement was made by the hon. Member for Kilkenny (Mr. J. O'Connell), respecting certain evictions that were stated to have taken place on the estate of the Marquess of Waterford. Before entering into any details he would state his solemn belief
 1072 The Times; "Within these few days, on the Marquess of Waterford's estates, a whole village containing fifty families and 277 persons, has been rased to the ground. The lease expired, and forthwith the mandate of destruction and depopulation was issued. Neither age nor sex was spared. Bedridden and helpless, infants, widows, orphans—all were driven away, most of them from the soil of their birth. A miserable pittance of compensation was given them, a few shillings to help them to America; and there end the indigenous rights and resources of the multitude. There ends its connexion with the landlord, its claim on his property, its appeal to his bosom, Yet all is legal:  summum jus, 1073 1074
 MR. CHRISTIE  wished to put a question
 1078
 MR. GREGORY  observed that the Bill in question was brought in for a specific purpose, and with reference to a specific constituency. The object, or, to make use of a milder phrase, the result of the Bill would be to deprive the honest constituency of Dublin of its representation, and to hand over that representation to whatever party might be the least scrupulous in the employment of fraud and personation. He called upon hon. Gentlemen to prevent an attempt of this kind, which would lead to the commission of the crime of perjury. He should conclude by moving that the Report be taken into consideration that day six months.
 MR. W. SMITH O'BRIEN  could scarcely believe the Government would lend him itself to a proceeding such as that suggested by the hon. Member for Dublin. He scarcely believed that the independent English Members, who professed to act sometimes without reference to party, would lend themselves to such proceedings, when it was recollected that under the present system there were numbers of persons to whom no opportunity was given of polling within the prescribed time. To give
 1142
 MR. W. S. O'BRIEN  was ready to attend to his duty in everything in which the interests of his constituents were concerned. The question put was that he do attend "the Committee." This being so, he begged most respectfully to say—and for the reasons which he had formerly given—that he would not attend the Committee.
 COLONEL VERNER  would not attempt to follow the hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side, who addressed the House on the history of Ireland; he could not avoid entering, however briefly, on a defence of the landlords of Ireland, in order to remove those imputations which had been cast upon them. In doing so, he would confine himself to that part of Ireland with which he was more immediately connected, and with which he was best acquainted. He could say from his own personal knowledge there was not in any country a class of persons who were more interested in the happiness, the prosperity, the welfare, and the comfort of their tenantry, than were the landed proprietors of the province of Ulster. He could take upon him to say, that their principal study was, how they could best benefit their tenantry. He would appeal to those who ever travelled through the north of Ireland, if they would not admit that the general appearance of that province, the neatness of the cottages of the people, the comfort of the farmers and their children, were not so apparent as at once to indicate the kindness and indulgence of the landlords and resident gentry, or in their absence the active exertions of their agents, who manifest that care and attention which were well calculated to promote the interest of their employers and the advantages of the poorer classes. He did not, however, hesitate to admit that there were cases of hardship, of uncalled-for severity upon the part of some landlords, but such cases were generally to be found in other parts of Ireland; it was, therefore, unfair and unjust that the conduct of such persons should be visited on the whole of the landlords of Ireland. But suppose the charge did apply in its fullest extent to every landlord in Ireland—would that palliate or justify the crime of murder? It was very easy for persons to throw all the blame on the landlords; but if persons would reflect a little, they might soon discover other and stronger reasons for crime in Ireland than any misconduct on their part. There existed at that moment a numerous, widely-spread, and well-organized body in that country, and which had existed to his certain knowledge for upwards of forty years, and which it could be proved, beyond all doubt, existed many years before; a body which, while it appeared under different forms and designations,
 1095 1096 Nation, 1097
 SIR G. GREY  would suggest to his hon. Friend near him (Mr. C. Wood), and the other hon. Gentleman who had been Members of the Bridport Election Committee, the propriety of abstaining from entering into a discussion on this subject. The points which had been mentioned were strictly legal points, which might have been raised before the Committee; and which, for anything the House knew to the contrary, had been raised there, and decided by the Committee; and, if such questions were to be mooted in the House, they would be involved in almost interminable discussions. He hoped the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. G. Bankes) would see, on reflection, that this was a question which ought not to be raised in the House. He (Sir G. Grey) saw no objection to the proposal of the hon. Member, that the proceedings of the Committee should be printed; and he could not conceive that such a suggestion would meet with any opposition; but he hoped the hon. Gentleman would content himself with smbmitting that Motion to the House.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  observed, that the hon. Gentleman had, on a former occasion, asked him a question in reference to an alleged crime at Sheffield, at which period he had received no information respecting it. Since that period he was grieved and ashamed to say, that he had received official information that two crimes similar to that described in the newspaper from which the hon. Member had quoted, had been committed in Sheffield; and he was also bound to state, and he did so with regret, that this was not the first time that a dastardly offence of this description had been committed in Sheffield. At the same time, he was bound to say, that Sheffield was the only town in England where crimes of this description were committed; and with respect to Sheffield, he could also state with satisfaction that the mayor and common
 1083
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, it appeared to him that there was as much business already for the House to perform as it was likely to transact in a reasonable time. The Bill to which the noble Lord referred was introduced last Session, and circulated throughout the country during the recess. Various suggestions had been made, and the Amendments so suggested had been incorporated in the Bill; but, from his experience in that House, he must say, that it was not prudent to lay on the Table of the House Bills, with respect to which there was no probability of their further progress. The Bill to which the noble Lord referred was matured; and he should lay it on the Table of the House, if he saw a fair prospect of his being able to pass it; but at the present moment he must decline promising to do so.
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, whether Her Majesty's Government would obtain greater popularity by persevering with this measure or by abandoning it, is hardly a consideration which ought to influence the conduct of those who are responsible for the maintenance of the public peace in Ireland. It may be true that more of popularity might be gained by a willing acquiescence on our part in the proposal of the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down; but that popularity would be gained at a costly sacrifice, if it were obtained by the sacrifice of the duty of those who are responsible for maintaining the public peace; and if it were accompanied also by increased danger to life and property in Ireland. Sir, I said at an early period of these discussions, that I should think I was wanting in due respect both for the country to which this measure refers, and the importance of the subject, if I permitted this debate to close without offering some observations upon it; and, as I would fain hope, after the full and able discussion which this measure has undergone in this preliminary stage of its progress, that we are now approaching the close of the present debate, I am unwilling to postpone to a later period the performance of a duty which I feel to be incumbent upon me. Sir, I wish, in the first place, to explain to the House what were the motives of Her Majesty's Government in proposing that the first stage of this Bill should be interposed in the progress of another Bill of the deepest importance, in my opinion, to the welfare of this country. I assure the House that it was not from any punctilious desire of adherence to established usage, that we felt it our duty to propose the first reading of this Bill. What were the circumstances under which this
 1107 1108 1109 1110 1111 1112 
 
 Offences. 1843. 1845. 
 Homicides 122 139 
 Conspiring to murder 3 8 
 Assault on police and magistrates 48 72 
 Aggravated assault 444 540 
 Demand or robbery of arms 119 551 
 Administering oaths 51 223 
 Threatening notices 940 1,944 
 Attacking houses 215 483 
 Firing into dwellings 87 138 primâ facie 1113 "I am overwhelmed with disgust and shame at the hideous crimes committed in some parts of Ireland." 1114 "The murdered man was brother to Darby and Michael Hogan, both of whom have been fired at, the one in February last, the others a few weeks ago; they have police protection by my recommendation, two men being furnished on alternate days from two neighbouring stations—a plan that I now see works badly, for the draught renders it nearly inoperative for other duties. I would, therefore advise that two men be stationed permanently at Hogan's. I have mentioned this to the police officer, and it meets his approval." "It is my painful duty to state to you, for the information of his Excellency the Lord Lieutenant, that at dusk last evening a farmer named John Hogan, residing at Ballinderry, was shot dead close to his own house; three or four shots were discharged at him so close as to set his clothes on fire, and his body perforated in every part with balls. The cause assigned is, that he had taken an acre of land joining his farm, whence a neighbour had been dispossessed." 1115 "On the evening of the 11th inst., at 5 o'clock, an armed party of seven men entered the house of Lawrence Leahy, a respectable farmer, and rushed at him; but Leahy, who was a very tall and powerful man, knocked down four of them with his fist; but, after a struggle, he was overpowered and beat down; when on the ground, his wife threw herself over him, but [what did these men do when the wife of the unfortunate man interposed her own body—risked her life in the attempt to save him?] one of the fellows placed a gun quite close to his leg, and fired it, which dreadfully shattered the leg, and then struck him on the head with guns." "Poor Lynch could not escape, the under-tenants to a man were leagued against him, and lived all contiguous to his house, so that his every movement was watched. About a month since sub-inspector Burke, of this station, received private information that there was a party hired to shoot Lynch the morning following." l. l. 1116 "I never witnessed a more distressing scene than the wailing of this poor man's wife, daughters, and sons presented; now not only deprived of their parent, but of all the property they possessed." "A party of twelve or fifteen men entered the tent, and grievously assaulted Egan and his servant, Landrigan, with stones. On the following day the matter came to the knowledge of the police, who proceeded to the tent, and found Egan pursuing his usual avocations, complaining but little of his injuries, unwilling to afford any information on the subject, and totally denying any knowledge of the assailants. At that time, and for a day or two after, Egan suppressed all reference to the case of Landrigan; and it was not until the latter was speechless and past recovery that Egan apprised the police of his condition. Landrigan died that day, and Egan became so ill that his recovery for a while was doubtful." "The board of directors of the Mining Company of Ireland hereby gives notice to all whom it may concern, that the companys' works at Earl's Hill Colliery will be suspended on Saturday, the 20th of December next, or the earliest day admissible under existing contracts. The board has been reluctantly impelled to adopt this course by the outrages and threats to which the company's stewards, Martin Morris and others, have been subjected with impunity, notwithstanding large rewards offered for information which might lead to the punishment of the offenders, and by the threatening notices subsequently served on those well-disposed workmen who are desirous to work under the company, and earn support for themselves and families, but whose lives are too highly valued by the board to be risked by a continuance of the works until sufficient protection can be afforded to them." 1117 "'Field labourer,' 'magistrate,' 'labourer,' 'poor woman,' 'farmer,' 'labourer,' 'labourer,' 'servant,' 'labourer,' 'pensioner's wife,' 'labourer,' 'labourer,' 'labourer.'" 1118 1119 1120 1121 1122 1123 1124 1125 1126 1127 1128 1129 "Now, as the position of a landlord is the single circumstance which is of the greatest importance and weight, and contributes chiefly to every one's influence and power, let us begin with that as the principal engine we can employ in this useful work, and lay down as the main foundation stone of our little building this first resolution, viz:—'that, as landlords in this poor kingdom, we will do our utmost in our little spheres to remove the defects and difficulties which we find our people and country, and particularly our own estates and tenants, lie under." "And yet, to our shame we must confess, that in Ireland our tenants (I speak of the poorest and greatest part of them) have rather huts than houses, and those of our cotters are built, like
 1130 1131
 VISCOUNT INGESTRE  was enabled, from his connexion with the noble Marquess, to corroborate every particular mentioned by his hon. Friend. Being often a resident with his noble relative in Ireland, he was rejoiced to witness the manner in which he managed his estates. A day or two ago he received a letter from the Marquess's agent, which he would read:—
 "I think it probable that some notice may be taken in Parliament of some miserable hovels that have lately been taken down by the occupiers themselves, in Graigshoneen, which is part of Kilmacthomas, and I have deemed it prudent to give you a statement of the facts, that you may be enabled, should circumstances require it, to
 1075
 MR. O'CONNELL  said, he was sure the House would give him credit for the assertion that he would not rise to advocate the conduct of his hon. Friend the Member for the county of Limerick, if he thought that his hon. Friend had had the slightest intention of offering disrespect to the Speaker or to that House. It was not intentional contempt on his part, if contempt it were at all; but the course he had pursued had been adopted from a strong view of what he conceived to be his duty to his own country. He asked the House to pause before they passed the proposed Resolution. There were two grounds on which he thought there ought to be more consideration. The first question was, how far the Act of Union with Ireland gave a power to the Members of that House to enforce the process of contempt, if he might use the phrase, and of committal, against the representatives of Ireland? There could be no common law jurisdiction in that House for this purpose, and up till 1800 there could not be a question that there was no jurisdiction at all; for both that House and the Parliament of Great Britain, by a Statute passed in 1783, disclaimed any species of interference with the representation of Ireland. The jurisdiction, then, of that House in this matter could not stand on common law, nor upon the Act of Union, because that gave them no jurisdiction. He wished the House to take this view into consideration. As to the Committee of Selection, he was not disposed, never less so than at the present moment, to say anything derogatory of that Committee. Were he rash enough to say anything of that kind, it would at the same time be unfounded. Up to the 12th of February last there were no stringent measures of this House to compel attendance before Committees on Private Bills. It was voluntary on the part of Members to attend, and in many instances still remained so; and now the question was whether by the law and usage of Parliament they could delegate to a Committee the power of making regulations, the neglect of which should be punishable in like
 1161
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  regretted that the House was called upon to take the course proposed by the hon. Member for Oxford University; but he thought it absolutely necessary that it should come to a decision on this point; and he confessed that he saw no other course open for the House to pursue, under the circumstances in which it was placed by the continued determination of the hon. Member for Limerick county, than to adopt the Resolution proposed by the hon. Member for Oxford University. This question had assumed a much more serious character than when it originally arose; because it was now connected with the important considerations just addressed to the House by the hon. and learned Member (Mr. O'Connell); and the House was not now to consider whether it would interfere with an hon. Member who had refused to obey its Orders, but further, whether there were not a portion of its Members who were beyond its control—who had an independent authority distinct from the power of the
 1162 "Experience and observation at length forced upon my mind the conviction that the British Parliament is incompetent, through want of knowledge, if not through want of inclination, to legislate wisely for Ireland; and that our national interests can be protected and fostered only through the instrumentality of an Irish Legislature." "Desiring that none but the Representatives of
 1163 1164 "That the said United Kingdom be represented in one and the same Parliament, to be styled the Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland." 1165 1166
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  denied that there was any shrinking from the discharge of a duty on the part of the hon. Member for Limerick. He might probably have a mistaken notion of his duty, but was incapable of shrinking from what he considered his duty. If he had had any idea of shrinking, there was nothing easier for him than to have set off for Ireland, from which they would not have found it very safe or easy to bring him back.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL : When his opinion was asked upon any question regularly before the House, he always felt it his duty to give it; but as it was no part of his duty to answer questions upon matters not regularly before them, the hon. Member must excuse him if he declined to give any opinion upon the point he had raised.
 MR. A. LEFROY  was gratified to find that such a measure as this was contemplated. An improvement of the waste lands in Ireland would be the most important benefit that could possibly be conferred on Ireland. He hoped Members on both sides would unite in supporting this measure.
 MR. DISRAELI : The learned Gentleman who has just addressed us with so much ability, has impressed on us the absolute necessity of acceding to the Motion before the House—a Motion which he regrets, and the consequences of which, he also tells us may be exceedingly painful and inconvenient to the hon. Member concerned. The hon. and learned Gentleman told us also, there was no difference between English and Irish Members—that
 1185 1186 1187
 MR. CALEB POWELL  was sure that his hon. Colleague was confident that he had right on his side, and but for his entertaining that conviction, he should not support his hon. Colleague. He must say that he never saw anything more like hostility to his hon. Friend than the tone in which the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General had spoken. He thought his hon. Friend had reason to complain of the tone both of the Attorney General and of the Prime Minister. Neither of them
 1176
 MR. C. BULLER : I am not going to answer the speech of the hon. Member for Shrewsbury, who will excuse me for saying that his plea for my hon. Friend the Member for Limerick is more creditable to his generous devotion to a new political ally than to his usual acumen and ingenuity. It appears to me, indeed, that the course we should adopt is a very simple one. Having passed an Order in the presence of my hon. Friend, he declares he will pay no attention to it. I think my hon. Friend set up no such justification of his conduct as that set up for him by the hon. Member for Shrewsbury, namely, that he had no notice of the Order. My hon. Friend has distinctly stated that he will not obey it. Besides, what can be more direct notice than the Vote of last night—"Ordered that Mr. W. S. O'Brien do attend the said Committee"? That Vote was passed in the presence of my hon. Friend. Well, then, he has clearly committed such a contempt, that the House will be bound, if it have any regard for its own character or privileges, to enforce its Order. And I understand, too, the Order, signed by Mr. Ley, was actually served on Mr. O'Brien by the Serjeant-at-Arms, so that the plea of non-notice falls completely to the ground. I am sure every Member will be disposed to act in such a case as this with temper and moderation, and not press severely on any Member guilty of mere inadvertence. So far, I entirely coincide with the hon. Member for Shrewsbury. Some Gentleman has expressed alarm as to the consequences of this vote. I am willing to admit that it should not be followed up with precipitation. It is quite clear we must come to the conclusion that a contempt has been committed. Then, what is the
 1188 bonâ fide
 MR. SPEAKER : Is Mr. William Smith O'Brien in his place?
 MR. SPEAKER  read to the House the following Message, which was brought into the House by Sir ROBERT PEEL:—
 The SPEAKER : Seeing that the hon. Member for Limerick has returned to his seat, I should state that it is an unusual course to do so; it would be advisable that the hon. Member should retire till the adjourned debate fixed for Thursday next shall have terminated.
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  was anxious to see the Bill of the hon. Gentleman before he expressed his opinion with regard to its details. The right hon. Baronet said he could not understand how 4,000,000 acres of waste land could remain unreclaimed, if it were susceptible of being cultivated with advantage. Now the fact was, that the great bar to the reclamation of waste lands in Ireland was the law of entail, which rendered it impossible for the English capitalist to lay out his money with the prospect of repaying himself. Another bar was that persons would not take the land unless they could get leases; and there was, unfortunately, a foolish disinclination on the part of the Irish landlords to grant leases. The Bill under consideration proposed to invest the Board of Works with a control over the money to be granted under the Bill; this he strongly objected to, because a feeling was growing up in Ireland that that Board was wholly inadequate to the performance of its functions with advantage to the public interests. If the measure was taken up at all, it should be taken up in a comprehensive and independent manner, altogether apart from the "jogtrot" machinery at present in existence. With respect to distress existing in Ireland, although it was stated that half a million had been spent in that country for its relief, he was not aware of the expenditure of a single sixpence.
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  also regretted that it should be thought necessary to introduce this subject at present; first, because the ultimate result of this course would, perhaps, be to compel those who concurred in the propriety of the course adopted by the hon. Member for Limerick to take measures which might impede the business of the House to a great extent; and he should always regret that anything should arise to interfere with the just and legitimate proceeding of its business. Much more he regretted the adoption of this course, because, if it were persevered in, there would arise in the minds of the people of Ireland, who could not enter into Parliamentary technicalities, a strong impression that in pursuing this—he might almost say, persecution of his hon. Friend, the House was visiting upon him a certain degree of—not enmity, for that was too strong an expression, but, at all events, hostility. It was to be regretted exceedingly that the House should adopt any course which might aggravate the quarrel between the two countries. He felt quite incapable of entering into the argument on the power of the House; no doubt it had the power to do a great deal of mischief; but if it could punish for this refusal to attend a Committee, it ought to pause before making use of that power. With regard to the private business of the House, many hon. Members must agree, that it was not carried on in a manner either convenient or satisfactory to them. Every one who had had the misfortune to sit on a Railway Committee—and he was one—must have this conviction on his mind, that if he really attended to the business of that Committee, sitting from twelve to four o'clock, entering on the varied questions before him, and deciding on matters of great importance, involving the expenditure of large sums of money, it was quite impossible for that Member to come down to the House and give the attention which he ought to do to measures for promoting the
 1167
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  had just had a communication from the hon. Member for Limerick, which applied strongly to the present question. His hon. Friend thought it quite unnecessary there should be any further delay interposed between the decision of the House and the enforcing of that decision. He assured hon. Gentlemen that he was not performing an agreeable duty; it was a task he discharged with the greatest reluctance; and nothing but a strong feeling of respect for his hon. Friend the Member for Limerick had induced him to undertake it. He was aware that the House had shown great anxiety that his hon. Friend should yield and adopt a reasonable course; and nothing but a strong feeling of friendship for the hon. Member could have induced him to get up in his place and put this unpleasant conclusion to the discussion. But his hon. Friend's opinion of the rectitude of the course he had adopted was so decided—he was so convinced of the expediency of bringing the matter to a settlement, and that this sort of discussion should be put an end to as soon as possible—that his hon. Friend had empowered him to make known to the House that his resolution and his opinion on the question remained the same. He thought it due to the House that it should be informed of it.
 MR. H. GRATTAN  thought that his hon. Friend had not deserved the remarks which had been made upon him, because he did not wholly set at defiance the Order of the House. He had taken a distinction upon a point of law. His hon. Friend (the Member for Limerick) had fixed opinions on the subject; and he should only hope that if the House should agree to pass this Resolution, for which he (Mr. Grattan) could not vote, they would pause before they took any ulterior steps, which he thought could not be satisfactory to any body.
 MR. WARBURTON  said, that if, by his concurrence in the present Motion, he was merely giving expression to his disapproval
 1168 1169 "To leave out from the word 'esquire' to the end of the question, in order to add the words 'and any other Members of this House, who in the course of the present Session may think proper to signify to the Committee of Selection that they claim, on special grounds, to be exempted from serving on Select Committees on Railway Bills, shall be exempted accordingly; and that it be an Instruction to the Committee of Selection to report to the House the names of all such Members as may so claim to be specially exempted, and the grounds assigned for such exemption.'"
 MR. J. COLLETT  wished to know, now that the attendance of Members on Private Bill Committees was compulsory, and that the House by a recent arrangement met on Wednesday in the day time, if the lesser duty of the former, would merge into the more important duty of the latter; or, would a Member who attended in his place in the House on Wednesdays, be held guilty of contempt of its Orders for being absent from the Railway Committee on that day?
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  differed from the hon. Member who spoke last, with reference to the epithet he had applied to the conduct of the hon. Member for Limerick. He believed that House and the country would find that the people of Ireland approved of his conduct, and that, instead of thinking it foolish or unwarrantable, they would regard it as in perfect accordance with what was due to the interests of Ireland. He also differed with the hon. Member when
 1170 1171
 MR. O'CONNELL  suggested that the Motion should be complied with, and the discussion postponed till Thursday. He spoke solely for himself; he had no communication whatever with the hon. Member for Limerick, one who in everything could decide for himself; the Motion being-suspended till Thursday, only two days, could not tarnish the dignity of the House; he hoped that time would be given for a complete and distinct consideration of the subject.
 MR. O'CONNELL : The hon. and learned Gentleman has mistaken the point as to notice. What my hon. Friend complained
 1189
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  rose to protest against having any compliment paid to him, or having comparisons drawn respecting his conduct, at the expense of his hon. Friend the Member for Limerick. It should be recollected that if he served on a Railway Committee, it was at the commencement of the Session, when, if he had not, it was evident he could not have taken any part in opposition to the Coercion Bill. His hon. Friend at the present time had not the same reasons for answering the call of the House that he (Mr. J. O'Connell) had at the beginning of the year. The House would do well, now that it had passed a vote of condemnation by so large a majority, to pause before it resorted to the extreme measure of committal. Again, he called on them to reflect that if his hon. Friend were mistaken, he was actuated by the very strongest convictions of his duty. He had not hitherto shrunk from anything which he thought it was his duty to perform; and no man could be more unflinching in the execution of it. If his hon. Friend were mistaken, his sincerity at least ought to be respected. A pause of a week or a few days might give them some means of getting out of their difficulty. The House might certainly push matters to extremity; but if they did, their act would be looked upon as an indication of hostility to Ireland. ["No, no!"] Hon. Gentlemen who cried "No, no!" were ignorant of the real feelings of the Irish people; but he, who knew what those feelings were, could assure them that the people of Ireland most fully approved of the hon. Member's intentions and conduct. In saying so he did not mean to suggest any apprehensions of danger, or hold out any threat to the House; but he thought it a matter which was worthy the consideration of a Parliament representing not England and Scotland alone, but Ireland also. Understanding that a Motion would be made in reference to the present question, he would not occupy the time of the House by any further observations on the subject.
 COLONEL RAWDON  said, he should have been wanting in his duty to himself, and guilty of criminal weakness, if on account of any personal motives he had shrunk from supporting by his vote what he believed to be fit and right. But after the vote he had that evening given with so much pain to himself, he could not refrain from bearing testimony thus publicly to the great merits which did, he believed, attach to the hon. Member for Limerick. He was convinced there was not an hon. Member of that House actuated by more pure, disinterested, or patriotic motives than that hon. Gentleman. But he looked upon his duty in a different light from that in which he (Colonel Rawdon) regarded it. He hoped the House might be induced to pause before they proceeded to carry the measure suggested in the Motion before them into immediate execution. The opinions expressed by the friends of the hon. Member might have some weight with him, and if twenty-four hours' time were allowed him to consider the whole circumstances of the case, he might be possibly induced, in accordance with the feelings of the House, almost unanimously, to reflect on the course he had taken, and to retrace his steps. His conduct contrasted most disadvantageously, as far as the interests
 1193
 MR. BROTHERTON  had no intention of saying a single word on the subject, but was induced by what had fallen from the hon. Member for Kilkenny to make one or two remarks. He considered it as an honour and a privilege of every Member to endeavour to do his duty, whether in that House or in Committee; and he thought the less power they had the more they felt the power they possessed. He would rather have men acting on a principle of honour than by coercive laws. He had the fullest confidence that if hon. Members were at liberty either to attend the Committees or not, such was his reliance on their integrity that he believed they would seldom fail in attention to their duties. And he must say, that if a Member chose to shrink from any duty he was called upon to perform, he would rather leave him to his constituents, than attempt to compel him to perform it. But the hon. Gentleman had another object in view. He would be better pleased if they sent him to the Tower than by any other course they could adopt. Now, he did not want to gratify him—he did not wish to make a martyr of him; and he hoped, therefore, that the House would come to the determination to adopt the Amendment of the hon. Member for Kendal.
 MR. HENLEY  reported from the Select Committee on Group 11 of Railway Bills—
 1153 "That the Committee met this day at one o'clock, pursuant to the adjournment of yesterday, and that William Smith O'Brien, esquire, one of the Members of the Committee, did not attend the Committee this day within one hour of the time appointed for the meeting of the Committee."
 MR. HUME  rose in consequence of an expression from an hon. Member near him (Mr. C. Powell) which, upon consideration, he thought he could not maintain, as he seemed to draw a distinction between Irish and English Members. He recollected occasions when he had contended that the Irish Members were entitled to all the privileges which the English and Scotch Members enjoyed. If, then, they were to have all the privileges of English Members, were they to refuse to do the duties imposed upon Members of the House of Commons? He had considered them to be placed upon the same footing with every other Member of the House, and, therefore, that they were to be obedient to all the rules and orders made by that body. He should ask what difference there was between Members who came into the House under the Reform Bill and others? Was there any law passed to give them privileges equal to those possessed by other Members of the House? He apprehended that by becoming Members of the House they became entitled to all its privileges, and liable to all its
 1177
A short time afterwards,  MR. POULETT SCROPE  having began to address the House on his Motion relative to Waste Lands, the Speaker noticed Mr. Smith O'Brien, who had returned to the House, and said,
 MR. P. SCROPE  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill for promoting the reclamation of Waste Lands in Ireland. He apologized for once more calling the attention of the House to a question connected with the relief of the Irish poor. He was in hopes that Her Majesty's Government would have saved him the necessity of doing so, by taking up this subject themselves. It was true, at the beginning of the Session several Bills were laid upon the Table of the House by the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department for the purpose of effecting similar objects in Ireland; the House shortly after passed a Drainage Bill, a Fishery Bill, a Public Works Bill, but he looked in vain for a Waste Lands Bill. The subject of Waste Lands in Ireland had, more or less, occupied the attention of Parliament for a long series of years. In 1809 a Commission was appointed to inquire into and report upon the Wastes and Bogs of Ireland, and that Commission made several very valuable Reports. In 1819, in 1830, and again in 1835, Committees on the state of Ireland had also taken much evidence,
 1199 1200 l. l. s. s. s. 1201 "Instruct, Employ, Don't Hang them." 1202 1203 1204 1205 l. l. 1206
 MR. FITZGERALD , although he had been apprized of the original intention of his hon. Friend the Member for Limerick, yet thought that he would have given the matter more intermediate attention, and would not have brought it to issue in this way. His personal friendship for the hon. Member, however, and his entire coincidence of opinion with him on the great question which agitated the minds of the people of Ireland, would, however, render it impossible for him to treat otherwise than with great attention and consideration anything that his hon. Friend might do either in that House or elsewhere. He must say he had not heard anything in the course of this debate to induce him to vote for the Motion; and when the hon. Member for Montrose laid it down that all Members of that House were bound to perform all their duties as Members, he appeared to have forgotten that the hon. Member for Limerick and many other Irish Members had been elected on the principle of their not at all attending in that House, and that their coming here was a voluntary act, because they thought that by so doing they could best oppose the Coercion Bill. The hon. Member for Shrewsbury had remarked as a difference between the English and the Irish Members that the latter did not pay the income tax. He forgot, however, that so many of them resided in England, and therefore paid it. Those who remained would no doubt be very soon called on also by the Legislature; but, perhaps, the amount collected would not pay the expense of collection. He thought that his hon. Friend the Member for Limerick was quite right in taking every opportunity he could to bring not only Irish questions, but also the situation of Irish Members under the notice of that House; and he was quite
 1191
 MR. ESTCOURT  moved—
 "That William Smith O'Brien, esquire, having been guilty of a contempt of this House, be for his said offence committed to the custody of the Serjeant-at-Arms attending this House, during the pleasure of the House, and that Mr. Speaker do issue his warrant accordingly."
 MR. ESTCOURT , in reply to the suggestion of the noble Lord, observed that he could only say he had been entirely governed by precedent in the course he had pursued. He knew of no precedent which could authorize him to withdraw his Motion, nor did he apprehend that any such precedent existed. In the course he had taken, he considered himself merely acting as the organ of the Committee of which he was the chairman, and in that capacity bound by the precedents afforded by the conduct of his predecessors, from which he believed it would be highly unbecoming to depart.
 MR. ESTCOURT  said, that, in consesquence of the Report which had been presented to the House, it became his duty, as Chairman of the Committee of Selection, to make a few observations on the subject, and to state the grounds upon which he should ask the House to support the Motion he should have to submit to them. He could assure the House that, considering all the circumstances, and the nature of the Motion with which he would have to conclude, this was the most painful duty he had ever had to perform; and he thought the House would consider he was justified in making that statement when he told them that, having held the office of Chairman of the Committee of Selection ever since it was established, this was the first occasion on which he had been called upon to perform such a duty as it now became his lot to discharge. He considered that he should best consult the wishes and convenience of the House by giving them a plain and simple narrative of the events which rendered it necessary for him to address them that night. On the 12th of February last the House adopted certain Resolutions, directing the Committee of Selection to form certain Committees for the purpose of inquiring into the merits of Railway Bills, which, in consequence of the great pressure of that species of business, were to be divided into groups. The House,
 1154 1155 "So long as I continued to believe that I could
 1156 "Desiring that none but the representatives of the Irish nation should legislate for Ireland, we have no wish to intermeddle with the affairs of England or Scotland, except in so far as they may be connected with the interests of Ireland, or with the general policy of the Empire." "In obedience to this principle I have abstained from voting on English and Scotch questions of a local nature; and the same motive now induces me to decline attendance on Committees on any Private Bills except such as relate to Ireland." "I availed myself of the first sitting of the Committee of Selection since the receipt of your letter to submit its contents to them, and I am instructed to inform you, that the Committee cannot, in the reason which you allege for not serving, recognise such 'an excuse' as (in accordance with the spirit of the Resolutions agreed to by the House on the 12th of last February) would justify their 'deeming it sufficient' to exempt you from serving." "As it appears from your letter that at this particular juncture your time and attention are engrossed by a subject before Parliament of primary importance to Ireland, I am further instructed by the Committee of Selection to state, that adhering to their usual practice of consulting, as far as may be consistent with a faithful and impartial discharge of their duty, the convenience of the several Members whom they may find it incumbent on them to select, it will afford them great satisfaction to avail themselves of this timely communication
 1157 "I have had the honour of receiving your obliging letter of yesterday's date, in answer to mine of the 3rd instant. I feel exceedingly indebted for the courtesy and consideration evinced by the Committee of Selection in suggesting the arrangement proposed in your letter; but since my objection to serve upon Committees on English and Scotch Private Bills is founded upon the relations at present subsisting between my country and Great Britain, and not upon a regard for my own personal convenience, I must refer to my former communications as announcing my final determination." " Resolved "That if the Committee of Selection shall not
 1158 1159 1160 "That W. S. O'Brien, Esq., having disobeyed the Order of the House, by refusing to attend the Committee to which the Railway Group No. 11 has been referred, has been guilty of a contempt of this House."
 MR. WYSE  said, there must be some new arrangement to meet the dire distress that existed in Ireland, and the increasing population of the country. The great mass of the people of England were employed in manufactures; while in Ireland 7,000,000 out of the 8,000,000 of people were engaged in agriculture, 2,000,000 of whom were actual paupers, and 1,000,000 on the verge of want. The question for the Government to decide was, to provide the
 1210
 MR. EWART  asked whether it were competent to an hon. Member to move, after this vote, "That the hon. Member had been guilty of a contempt," had passed, that it was such an offence as ought to be visited by reprehension, and not by committal to the custody of the Serjeant-at-Arms?
 1178
 MR. W. S. O'BRIEN : I presume, Sir, your object in calling upon me is to give me an opportunity of offering an explanation of my conduct. I feel extremely obliged to you and to the House for affording me such an opportunity; but, having already stated my views and intentions, fully and finally in the correspondence which passed between me and the Chairman of the Committee of Selection, I do not think it necessary to add anything to the matter contained in those letters, nor am I desirous of withdrawing anything in that correspondence. [Mr. O'BRIEN  bowed to the Speaker, and left the House.
 MR. S. O'BRIEN : I need not say I bow with the utmost deference to your decision, Sir, and your authority; at the same time, I should not have felt justified in withdrawing myself voluntarily, inasmuch as I have several Notices on the Paper for this evening, which I should have felt it my duty to have brought forward. [ The hon. Member then bowed to the Chair and quitted the House.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  rose to support the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Stroud. At that hour of the night he would not go into much detail, but he wished briefly to notice one or two points connected with the subject. He thought that one of the most important steps that could be taken for the advantage of Ireland, would be the reclaiming of the waste lands; and he was also of opinion, that when that duty was not performed by the landlords, the Government ought to take it into their own hands. By having the waste lands in their possession, the Government would be able to provide allotments where there was an overflow of population, while, by introducing an improved and proper system of farming, they would be enabled to advance the agricultural education of the people. Above all, he looked on the reclamation of the waste land as one of the most essential modes of removing the horrors of the clearance system. He wished to call the attention of the Government and of the House to the Waste Lands Society of Ireland, as an instance of the great benefit that might be derived from their system being fully carried out. The hon. Member then read an account of the system followed by that society in reclaiming and selling their lands, and then continued to say that they had no other remedy for the state of the people of that country except emigration. When they reflected on the great expense of sending persons to a foreign land, how
 1207
 SIR G. GREY  thought no other course was open to the House but to adopt the Resolution of the hon. Member for Oxford. The hon. Member for Cork, in the very temperate observations he had made, admitted that the hon. Member for Limerick had been guilty of contempt, because he disobeyed the orders of a Committee; but it must be evident that the hon. Member was guilty also of contempt towards the
 1172
 MR. WARD : Surely the House never wanted a precedent for the calm consideration of the subject. The object of the noble Lord was merely to postpone the Motion before the House, not to withdraw it. It was by an inadvertency the word was used. It was utterly impossible, if the House proceeded to extremities at once, that the hon. Member could have any opportunity of making concession. It was only the duty of the House to assert its authority; but having done so, it ought to pause before it carried so harsh a sentence into effect. He had great pleasure in sitting seventeen days last year on an Irish Railroad Committee; but he certainly should not have done so if he had not thought the duty was reciprocal, and that Scotch and Irish Members sat on English Committees. If the House wished the public to respect it, it must first respect itself. However, under the present circumstances, he would suggest the postponement
 1196
 SIR J. GRAHAM  had hoped some Irish Members might have been induced to follow the Mover and Seconder of this Motion, for he was convinced that on a matter of this description, local knowledge and experience were infinitely better guides than the wisest theories or the most specious arguments. He was, however, unwilling to offer opposition to a proposition of this kind; for, looking at the condition of Ireland, it was impossible to overlook the fact that with all that dense mass of population, vast tracts of that country were still uncultivated. At the same time, when he reflected that it was at so short a distance from this country, whence capital had such a tendency to flow wherever there was a prospect of profit, he thought it hardly possible there could be 4,000,000 acres of land capable of profitable improvement in a country where wages were exceedingly low, and yet that capital had not been employed in reclaiming them. He understood the hon. Gentleman to state broadly that by an outlay of not more than 10 l. s. 1208 1209
 SIR R. INGLIS  had so often differed from majorities of that House as to privilege, that he was somewhat surprised to find that in this case he concurred with what appeared to be the prevailing opinion. He had always endeavoured to uphold the authority of the House over its own Members, while he contended they had none over others, except those powers granted by statute. In giving a cordial support to the Motion, he did not say he was performing a painful duty, because he was satisfied the duty was clear and perfectly defensible. He believed, they would sacrifice their very existence as a legislative body if they did not enforce the rules they made for their own government, and enforce them summarily, as proposed by the present Motion; for he agreed with the hon. Member for Worcester, that the vote declaring the hon. Member guilty of contempt must be followed by its legitimate consequence, direct punishment. And, though it might be possible to interpose some delay between one Resolution and the other, he, for one, was not prepared to grant any such delay, because it had not been granted by the absurd advocates of privilege to any other individual who was guilty of a violation of their rules; and he thought they should be very cautious before they granted to any Member of their own body an accommodation which was refused to weaker parties. The case of non-notice was completely answered by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Liskeard. But if there had been no direct notice, as all men, even those who could not read, were bound to know the law, so Members were bound to know all that appeared on the Votes. As to the rule of the 12th of February, let that be in all its branches reconsidered, if need be; but if an order of the House had passed as to a turnpike trust, it was the order which must be considered, and not the subject to which it referred. The disobedience
 1190 brutum, fulmen,
 SIR R. PEEL : The House has decided by a large majority—by 133 to 13, that a contempt of the authority of the House has been committed; that manifests on the part of the House, without reference to party distinctions, a very decided opinion on the subject, and I think it also manifests a decided determination to enforce its authority. At the same time, I do not myself think that authority will be prejudiced by giving forty-eight hours' notice of its intention to do so, I think we had better avoid saying what the alternative will be. I think we had better avoid throwing any difficulty in the way of the hon. Member doing that which I believe will be suggested by the advice of his Friends, by his own good sense, and his own unwillingness to go through the parade of making himself appear a martyr, against the general opinion and feeling of the House. My own opinion is, we had much better avoid placing any impediment in the way of the hon. Gentleman's calmly considering the matter. And I hope the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir T. Wilde), whose opinion I so highly value on this question, and who is entitled to the gratitude of the House for the manner in which he has fought its battles of privilege, will concur with me in thinking that we shall not in the slightest degree endanger the authority of the House, which, in common with mo, he upholds, not for the dignity of the House itself, but for the maintenance of the essential rights of the people, by using some forbearance, and affording some time to the hon. Member for consideration. Under present circumstances, the wisest course we can adopt is perhaps to adjourn the debate till Thursday next. I believe the course we are taking, in order to insure the maintenance of our own authority, is rather a novel one; and I am sure that a result not too hastily arrived at will be the most satisfactory.
 SIR R. PEEL : I doubt whether the House had not better take its own course; it will not be precluded by what the hon. Gentleman has stated from taking that course. As it is our judgment that we can afford the delay without establishing an inconvenient precedent, I think the debate had better be adjourned, and after the House has stated the course it is willing to
 1198
 SIR R. PEEL : I am much surprised that any one should suppose that any party, in coming to a decision on this question, was influenced by feelings of hostility towards the hon. Member for Limerick. I believe that the general sentiment of the House is, on the contrary, one of very great regret that this matter has been brought forward. This, however, is not the first time in which the decision of the House has been necessarily taken on a question of this kind. In the course of this Session the hon. Member for Winchester declined to serve upon a Committee to which he had been appointed; and assigned as his reason for declining to serve on that Private Committee, that he was already serving on two Public Committees, and that he thought his public incompatible with his private duty. He appealed to the House, but his objection was overruled; and be was informed that he was bound to attend to the order of the House. An order was made to that effect, when the hon. Member said, that if such was the opinion of the House, he should at once bow to its decision; and though he might neglect his public duties on the Committees
 1173 1174 1175
 SIR T. WILDE  thought that some of the opinions which had been expressed by hon. Members on his side of the House might account for the conduct of the hon. Member for Limerick, consistently with his assertion that he intended no disrespect to the House. Nevertheless, he (Sir T. Wilde) mnst say he thought it difficult to contend that an act of disobedience to the express order of the House was not a contempt of the House. But the hon. Member contended that he had a higher duty to perform than attending on a Select Committee of the House. It might be that the hon. Member's mind was under this delusion; but he (Sir T. Wilde) deeply regretted that such a delusion should have had the authority of the hon. and learned Member for Cork—he hoped that the hon. and learned Gentleman would forgive him for saying so—but a position more inconsistent with Parliamentary law, and with common law, he must say, with great respect for the hon. and learned Gentleman's authority, for which on almost all occasions he felt the highest respect, he had never heard. That position was pregnant, he was convinced, with great mischief; for if it were said that the House, in enforcing obedience to its own order in this case, were assuming a power it was not entitled to, it might give a character which it was most desirable should not be given to such measures as it might at any time be necessary to adopt for effecting the due discharge of their functions as a House of Commons. He should not have risen except that he wished to express his opinion that the doctrine of his hon. and learned Friend was pregnant with danger. The law of Parliament, he should have supposed, must be well understood. Parliament possessed all the powers necessary to enable it to discharge its duties. The right hon. Baronet had correctly stated that the Act of Union with Scotland only added certain Members to that House and the House of Peers. It was, however, never contended that the powers given by the Union with Scotland did not include all powers, without which Parliament could not exercise its functions. Could it be said that Scotch Members were not sent to the House to be as efficient, and as fully clothed with power and privilege as were English Members? Could it be said that when from time to time new Members were added to the House, that there was any difference in the authority
 1179 1180 1181 1182 1183 1184
 SIR T. WILDE  believed the course proposed to be a novel one; but he did not think that constituted an objection to its being pursued. He did not see that it could place them in any situation of difficulty out of doors; if any novelty in the proceeding could raise any new question elsewhere, that might form an objection to taking it. Considering the conduct of the hon. Member, the character he universally bore, and the evidence he had given that he was acting with sincerity and from correct motives, though perhaps from mistaken judgment, he (Sir T. Wilde) hoped he would not refuse to consider the consequences of his own proceedings. As far as he was concerned, he should be the last person to oppose the adjournment of the question for a short time.
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  said that having joined very reluctantly in the vote to which the House had just come, and being further prepared to join the vote of the hon. Member for the University of Oxford, unless circumstances should meantime occur by which he could consistently avoid that course, he should, before they went to a division, rather put it to that hon. Member, if it would not tend to make the House stand more straightly in the eyes of all, if some little time were given in order to ascertain whether the hon. Member for Limerick himself would not now be prepared to bow to the clearly proved and decided opinion of the House? It had been stated in the course of the debate that the hon. Gentleman himself did not entertain any very precise notion that in the course of conduct he was pursuing he was acting in contempt of the Orders of the House. Now that the House had expressed their opinion, it would be well for them to pause in order to see whether that expression of opinion had not had a corresponding effect on the sentiments of the hon. Member. Most cordially did he wish that it might be the case. In the course of the previous discussion an hon. Member alluded to the number of Notices connected with the interests of Ireland which the hon. Member had on the Papers of that House. With respect to the fate of those Notices, the hon. Member for Limerick must recollect that the steps he had taken was his own act. Let him not forget that he had not acted in this respect as the hon. Member for Cork had acted. That hon. Member, in no less a degree, and for no shorter period of time, had been occupied on subjects connected with the welfare of the Irish people, either in opposition or in support of them; but he had not thought it inconsistent with his sense of devotion to the Irish people, or with his attachment to the cause of Repeal, to take his part, in common with all the other Members, in the despatch of the private, local, and internal business of the three countries. The hon. Member for Limerick surely would not forget that the English and the Scotch Members had not omitted to take their parts in despatching Irish business; that unusual accommodation had been afforded to the decision of Irish railways; and that both Houses of Parliament had departed from the usual course, in order to secure immediate attention to Railway Bills for that country. He hoped the hon. Member would, on consideration, give way to the
 1195
 MR. COWPER : Sir, I rise to order. Is the hon. Member in order in entering into a long statement about the Shetland Islands when the Motion is, "That the Order of the Day be read for proceeding with the Factories Bill?" Or, if he be in order, I would ask him, whether he be right in wasting the time of the House by bringing it forward now.
 LORD G. SOMERSET  agreed with the hon. Gentleman that the paramount duty of hon. Members was to attend the proceedings of the House.
 MR. SPEAKER : The House has not yet decided that it will proceed with the Order of the Day for the second reading of the Factories Bill. Any hon. Member, therefore, is in order in endeavouring to satisfy the House that it is not expedient to proceed with that Order.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member for Berwick is perfectly in order.
 MR. BANKES  hoped the hon. Member would not think it impertinent, after what had passed on his part, if he were asked whether, after the Corn Bill had passed, the hon. Member would vote for the Fac-
 1215
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that during the early part of the Session the House was deprived of the services of a great number of hon. Members who formed the Committee on Petitions for Private Bills, and who might, in his opinion, be employed much more advantageously for the public interests. No less than forty-two members were appointed to investigate these petitions; they frequently sat five hours a day for four or five days in the week; and if it happened—as was sometimes the case from the pressure of their other duties, and the severe labour required from them on that Committee—that a quorum was not present, great expense and inconvenience were occasioned by the detention of witnesses in town. He considered that this subject deserved attention, with a view to relieve hon. Members from the performance of
 1213
 MR. FIELDEN  having presented twenty-six petitions in favour of the Bill, proceeded to say: Sir, I rise to move the Second Reading of the Factories Bill; but I cannot do so without expressing my great regret that this important measure has fallen into my hands, instead of remaining to be conducted to what I hope will be its successful result by Lord Ashley, who has done so much in this matter to endear him to the working people. I will state to the House, in the first place, what is the present state of the law affecting persons employed in factories. It is this:—Children from 8 years of age to 13, are allowed to work only six hours a day; from 13 to 18, twelve hours a day; no female more than twelve hours a day; and no person (male or female) under the age of 18, to work in factories in the night. The Bill I now propose to the House to read a second time will limit the hours of work of children between 13 and 18, and females above 18, to eleven hours a day (exclusive of time for meals) for one year, beginning August, 1846; and to ten hours a day (exclusive of time for meals) from August, 1847. This Bill, then, is only intended to limit the hours of labour of children between 13 and 18, and all females. Those two classes of persons have now to work twelve hours a day, which, with time spent in going to and from the factory, and the time of meals, makes fourteen hours' occupation—a period of labour much too long, in my opinion, even for adults; but if fourteen hours' occupation be too long for adults, who can
 1223 1224 "Whilst resolved, as opportunity shall serve, to multiply the means of education, and render more available those already existing, we must be permitted to remind you, that no school education, however protracted, or however excellent, can ever compensate to the factory female operatives between the ages of thirteen and eighteen for the want of that home education which forms the future housewife and mother. This, we believe, is at the root of most of the social evils of Dundee; and what but more time at home can provide the cure?" Scottish Guardian "Those of you who have paid any attention to these subjects, know what is the fearful state of our manufacturing population. I wish not to make general or sweeping charges; but the system is such as to make it impossible for private individual parties to extricate themselves, however much disposed, without some general legislative measure. The vast multitudes of this portion of the people are worn down in mind and body. They have not the time nor strength to attend upon the means either of religion or education. The hands of ministers of the gospel and other religious men are rendered powerless, and all your efforts fruitless. What is the state of the case? When you offer visits during the day, the male head, of the family, and even the female head of the family, are employed in the factory. The greater portion of the junior members are there also. Even some of us, who have adopted the plan of commencing visits from six to nine in the evening, find that the greater portion of that time elapses before they can return from the long and exhausting labour of the day. As, for instance, in visiting a family in these circumstances between eight and nine in the evening, I found the parents at home; and just as I was finishing my exhortation, at nine o'clock, two young grown up and evidently respectable daughters had just come in from the factory
 1225 1226 1227 
 
 In 1819 109,000,000 lbs. 
 1825 166,000,000 lbs. 
 1831 262,000,000 lbs. 
 1833 287,000,000 lbs. 
 1844 490,000,000 lbs. 
 1845 532,000,000 lbs. "Since the last return to Parliament in February, 1839, there has been an increase in my district of 529 factories, of 10,021 horses' power, and of 50,522 persons employed. This increase has all taken place since November, 1842, when the revival of trade began." "The increase of power-looms in the last ten years is 79,088." 1228 1229
 MR. HUME  was unwilling at any time to oppose what appeared to be the undoubted wishes of a large portion of the working classes; and having paid some attention to the various meetings which had been held in different parts of the country on this subject, and to the petitions which had been presented to the House, he felt bound to admit that the opinion of a large body of the working classes was decidedly in favour of a limitation of the hours of labour; but it was because he considered that a more dangerous proceeding to the commercial and manufacturing interests of the country could not possibly be adopted, that he thought it his duty, and the duty of every one who believed the working classes to be in error in holding this opinion, to stand forward and resist that which, if adopted, would ultimately ruin the best interests of the country. He had on no occasion been indifferent to the interests of the working classes. On the contrary, he prided himself that one of the first objects to which he had applied himself in that House was to free their labours from the restraint of all monopolies; and it was
 1235 1236 [Laughter.] 1237 1238 1239
 MR. HUME  said, that he wished to appeal to the Government, and to the hon. Member for Oldham (Mr. Fielden), with reference to the Order which stood first on the list (the Factories Bill, second reading). In a commercial country no question could be more important than one affecting the principles of labour. He was sorry to see that attempts had been made for some time past to interfere with the free application of labour—attempts which could not be reconciled with their general desire to set free every branch of commerce and of capital. He begged to suggest to the House, that a question of so much importance to the country should not be discussed in a thin House, when there were twenty Committees sitting, requiring the attendance of Members who might be anxious to take a part in the debate, and to request that the Government would give up some day at their disposal for this Bill, in order that it might be fully and fairly discussed.
 MR. HUME  did not think that there was any particular necessity for hurrying the Factories Bill. After the Corn and Customs Bill should be disposed of, as it was probably the Bill of next importance, it might perhaps come on then?
 MR. FORSTER  was of opinion that few subjects of greater importance could be brought before the House than the proposed Bill. Few things could be more important to a country depending upon its manufacturing industry, than a proposal for compulsorily shortening the hours of labour in every factory throughout that country. There was one subject, however, the discussion of which was more important still, and that was the proposal for providing food for the people. The suffering of the people was always the first thing deserving the attention and the sympathy of that House. He trusted, therefore, that he might be excused for drawing the attention of the House and of the Government to a statement which had recently been entrusted to him relative to the dreadful sufferings of the inhabitants of an obscure and remote part of the Empire—he alluded to the Orkney and Shetland Isles. He regretted the hon. Member for Durham was not in his place—he believed he was attending a Committee—because that hon. Member had presented a petition to that House early in the month of March, signed by 7,000 of the inhabitants of the Shetland Islands against the Corn Laws. He was not surprised that they should have petitioned that House on that important subject; because, on Monday last a paper had been put into his hands by a gentleman of the highest respectability intimately connected with those islands, detailing a state of dreadful distress and misery which existed there—a distress and misery which he believed might be clearly traced to the operation of the laws against which they had so earnestly petitioned that House. In order to put the House in possession of the facts of the case, he would at once read the statement to which he had referred; it was as follows:—
 "Letters recently received from Shetland all concur in stating that the islands are on the brink of famine. The crops of corn, at no time adequate to the subsistence of more than half the population (about 32,000 souls), were very ill got in last season, and, to add to the calamity, the stock of potatoes which the people are in the habit of keeping in pits during the winter, and on which they rely in a great measure for sustenance during the spring and early part of the summer, have been found, on opening the pits, nearly all destroyed by rot. There is very little meal in the islands, and the people have no money to purchase it with. Their fish is the only commodity they have to give in exchange for bread. The almost only customers they now have for their fish are the Spaniards. From eight to ten sail of Spanish vessels now resort to the islands annually for cargoes of fish;
 1217
 MR. FORSTER : The statement which he was reading to the House when he was interrupted by the hon. Gentleman below him went on to say—
 "In one respect the case of the poor Shetlanders is more desperate than that of the Irish. There are many great and wealthy landed proprietors connected with Ireland, who, it is to be presumed, cannot allow their tenantry to starve. In Shetland there are no such wealthy proprietors to whom a starving tenantry can look for adequate relief. The means of the few small proprietors in the Shetland Islands are very limited, and are already nearly exhausted by the necessities of a miserable tenantry. While Government is taking measures for rescuing the people of Ireland from famine, the case of the Shetlanders will surely not be overlooked." 1218
 MR. FORSTER : I appeal to the House against the imputation which has been thrown out by the hon. Member below me (Mr. Cowper). It is entirely unfounded. Surely the case of these unfortunate people may be stated to the House without subjecting the Member whose painful duty it is to bring it forward to the imputation of wilfully wasting the time of the House.
 MR. AINSWORTH  had great pleasure in rising to second the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Oldham. He was induced to do so from two motives: first, from a desire of shortening the hours of labour; and also from the hope which he entertained, that as a proposition had been held out by the factory operatives, stating their anxiety that this business should be compromised, Her Majesty's Government would propose an Eleven Hours' Bill, in which case the operatives would waive a Ten Hours' Bill, and come to an arrangement upon the matter. Under these circumstances he thought that it would be advisable at the present moment to see if all parties could not come to a satisfactory adjustment of the disputes which had so long existed between the masters and the operative cotton-spinners in the manufacturing districts. Such an arrangement would do away with all future agitation upon this vexatious subject. Having that day presented a petition from the borough which he had the honour to represent, he could not give a silent vote upon this question, and, therefore, without being solicited to do so by his hon. Friend the Member for Oldham, he had come forward to support the Motion for the second reading of this Bill. There had been various meetings in Bolton upon this question; and, from the sentiments which had been expressed by persons of all classes, it was evident that a very strong feeling prevailed that something should be done to reduce the hours of factory labour, the operatives being quite willing to incur the risk of reduction in the amount of their labour. If, then, the operative spinners themselves were willing to abide the consequences of the abridgment, he thought that the House had no longer a right to object to the principle that the hours of factory labour should be reduced. He remembered that some time ago a deputation from the manufacturing districts was appointed to wait on the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, to urge upon him the necessity of opposing the Bill of the noble Lord lately the Member for Dorset-
 1230 "That many young persons employed as piecers had to walk forwards and backwards while at work in the mills upwards of twenty-four miles per day. He had often called at the cottages of factory workers, he had seen children come into the houses and immediately fall asleep on the floor before they had time to eat their supper; out of every 350 persons employed in factories only 144 of them enjoyed good health; whilst out of the same number of persons not employed in factories, 241 enjoyed good health." 1231 "That having been a factory worker upon the twelve hours' system, and experienced the change to eleven hours per day, he considered that he was enabled to speak of the beneficial result that had accrued from it, both to himself and fellow-workmen, which he would endeavour to do as clearly as possible, although he must acknowledge that a bad advocate sometimes spoiled a good subject; but they must forgive any mistake, and, selecting the goods parts for themselves, leave out the bad ones. He had attended meetings of their workpeople, and had never heard one of them say that he should like to go back again to the old system, for by the change the worst hour had been taken off, and had been put to the best; so that upon a fine day they were enabled to walk out and enjoy the refreshing breeze, the benefits of which they felt both inwardly and outwardly: outwardly, as invigorating the system; and inwardly, as by viewing the beauties of nature it led to thoughts and reflections tending to cultivate the mind. As regarded their physical condition, the women were the first object of their consideration, for their hours of labour were equally as long as those of the males; and he must say that since the change they appeared to be greatly benefited. The same might be said of the youths of both sexes. Work no doubt tended to preserve the body; but by over-exertion health was destroyed, and its sure end was death. As regarded education, there was no comparison between now and before they worked eleven hours; for he found that double the number were now engaged at night schools as compared with the twelve hours' system. He concluded by arguing that, as urged by some, short hours did not give a stimulus to go to the
 1232 "He had for a long time past been an advocate for shortening the hours of labour in factories. The present system was injurious to the morals, as well as to the physical strength of the rising generation. If the hours of factory labour were restricted to ten hours per day, it would not, in the end, be injurious to either labourers or manufacturers." "I beg to state that, in my opinion, they are generally enjoying better health now and since the adoption of eleven hours, than when working twelve. They express themselves so, and their appearance bespeaks it." "The sick club formed amongst my workpeople
 1233 "A good feeling existed between the employer and the employed; and again (which was an answer to a statement now seldom heard, that the factory operatives were wholly unfit for the boon they sought), that the numbers attending schools at night, before the introduction of the eleven hours' system, never exceeded twenty, but was mostly much under; and the numbers that now attended (many of them adults, and women learn-
 1234
 MR. HODGSON  said, as his Motion did not seem to meet with the approbation of the House, he would not press it.
 MR. R. HODGSON  moved the following Resolution of which he had given notice:—
 1211 "To discharge Order (23rd April), 'That it be an instruction to the Committee on every Private Bill, originated in this House, relating to any Railway, before proceeding with the merits of such Bill, to require to be produced before them, and verified by the Promoters, &c.;' and to move, in lieu thereof, 'That it be an instruction to the Committee on every Private Bill, originated in this House, relating to any Railway, to require to be produced before them, and verified by the promoters, &c.'"
 MR. ESTCOURT , in moving that Select Committees have leave to sit during the sitting of the House to-day, observed that a question was yesterday raised as to whether it would be the duty of a Member appointed upon a Committee to attend the House or the Committee when their sittings happened to be concurrent. He considered that the first duty of a Member was to attend to the interests of his constituents in the House; and if any Member of a Committee stated to such Committee that he was desirous of attending the House with the  bonâ fide 1212
 MR. T. S. DUNCOMBE  said, he thought the hon. Member had made out no case whatever for the rescinding this Standing Order. The only case to which he had been able to refer, in which it was thought necessary to depart from this Order was that of some Scotch railways.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that the course which the hon. Gentleman near him had thought proper to adopt, certainly did look like an indirect attempt to defeat the discussion on the Factories Bill, and he was satisfied that the public would so consider it.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that a strong feeling had been excited in the manufacturing districts upon the subject of this Bill; and he thought, after the manner in which the feelings of the working classes had been trifled with on a former occasion, that the sooner their minds were set at rest the better. He also should be anxious, in the event of the debate being adjourned, that it should come on to-morrow immediately after the Privilege question. He would suggest to the right hon. Baronet, looking at the immense arrears of business, and its very unsatisfactory state at present, that he should at an earlier period than usual, take the Thursdays to himself for Government business. He as an individual Member was perfectly ready, and he was sure that others would concur with him, to give up his right to Thursday, in order that the public businsss might be proceeded with on that day.
 MR. M. GIBSON  expressed his concurrence in the views of the right hon. Member for Nottingham (Sir J. C. Hobhouse). It appeared to him that the only remedy for the difficulties which had been referred to would be to preclude Committees from sitting concurrently with the House. The hon. Member for Salford (Mr. Brotherton) had suggested to him, that if both the Committees and the House sat on Wednesdays, the Committees should sit from eight to twelve o'clock in the morning. That hon. Gentleman was himself prepared to comply with such a regulation, and to attend Committees from eight o'clock to twelve on Wednesdays. His hon. Friends the Members for Manchester (Mr. M. Philips) and Durham (Mr. Bright) were naturally anxious to be present at the discussion of so important a measure as the Factories Bill; but they were unwilling to adjourn the Committees on which they served, because by so doing they would subject the parties concerned in the Bills submitted to them to an expense of 200 l. l. 1214
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  agreed that it would be an abuse of a privilege if hon. Members took occasion of the Orders of the Day to bring on subjects not immediately before them, with the view of delaying Orders which were upon the Paper for the Day. He agreed to the general principle; but he certainly thought that the case which had been introduced by his hon. Friend the Member for Berwick was a special case. ["No, no!"] He had no doubt but that those hon. Gentlemen who called "No, no!" thought that he was occupying the time of the House for the purpose of delay; but what would his friends out of doors, who had asked him to press the case of the Shetlanders upon the House, say to him if he forebore to do so when it was brought under consideration? It was a question of the utmost importance—it was one of present starvation—of a people not having sufficient food to preserve their existence—and he had no hesitation in saying that the Factories Bill was not a question of such pressing emergency as that. It was a case in which he should have thought that ordinary rules might have been broken through; and he said that his hon. Friend was perfectly justified in pressing that case upon the attention of the House, and in calling upon the Government to explain whether they had taken, or whether they intended to take, steps for the purpose of guarding against the continuance of the distress which he had pointed out. The distress in Ireland had come repeatedly before the House on the Orders of the Day; and as the hon. Member who represented the Shetland islands, was not present to urge their condition upon the House, he contended that his hon. Friend was perfectly justified in the course which he had taken. He must take the liberty of saying, that he feared that the hon. Gentlemen opposite, who came down to that House professing to take such a deep interest in the Factories Bill, had been animated rather by feelings of hostility to the Government, and that they were looking to an opportunity of putting that Government in a minority, rather than to any other object. Perhaps he was not justified in making that remark; but certainly that was what struck him as being the case, more especially when he remembered the course which many hon. Members had taken on that very Bill on a previous occasion. He wished to direct the attention
 1220 1221
 SIR G. CLERK  agreed with the hon. Member for Finsbury, that with a view to being able to distinguish between  bonâ fide
 SIR G. GREY  said, the Order made by the House from time to time as to Wednesdays was simply this—not that Committees should sit, but that they should have permission to sit during the sitting of the House. If the five members of a Committee were aware that a debate of importance was coming on, and if they felt it their paramount duty to their constituents and to the public to be present at such debate, it was competent to them to adjourn the Committee and to attend the House. If the majority should deem it their duty to continue the sitting of the Committee, the other one or two Members might absent themselves; and the House had provided that the Committee might still continue its sitting. The absence of those Members would, however, be reported to the House, and they would be called upon for an explanation. If it had appeared that they had attended the House, even if they had not taken part in the debate—for he considered that many hon. Members most efficiently discharged their duty by listening to the debates, as he thought the House would admit—in his opinion their absence from the Committee should be thought excusable.
 MR. M. PHILIPS  rose to address the House with great satisfaction, after the speech of the right hon. Baronet—a speech which was as convincing as it was sound and judicious. He had no hesitation in saying that he had no interest in opposing a Ten Hours' Bill; to him it was a matter of most perfect indifference whatever number of hours was legislated for; but he was bound to look at the condition of the great masses of the people of this country, and to legislate upon such a subject with the utmost caution. There had been one fact adduced in the course of this debate of great importance, and he should be
 1249 1250
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  thought the present question came under the notice of the House under better auspices and with better chances of success than it had ever appeared before; he thought a great change had taken place in the opinion of the master manufacturers in the great manufacturing districts. Many who had heretofore been most violently opposed to the measure were now shaken in that opposition; many—and the fact was highly creditable to them—had adopted eleven hours as their time of working instead of twelve. He had presented several petitions, among them one from the workmen in Mr. Gardner's factory in favour of the limitation. They found all who had tried the experiment were highly gratified with it. The workmen stated, that if they did lose any wages, the small loss was not to be put into competition with the immense benefit they derived from the short hours of work. Nor was it among the manufacturers only that this change of opinion had taken place; many Members of that House had been shaken in their opposition to legislation on
 1240 1241
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said: Although, Sir, I might have been, on the personal ground of indisposition, unwilling to address the House during the discussion of this morning, yet, as the question now stands, I think it is expedient that some Member of Her Majesty's Government should state what is the course they, as a Government, intend to pursue. The hon. Baronet who has just sat down has truly remarked, that this subject has, in the present Parliament, undergone an ample and full discussion. On former occasions it has been my duty to state to the House the principles which would guide my decision in reference to the question we are now debating. It is not a new question; it is one of paramount importance, which must be decided on great and leading principles. It has been my duty carefully and dispassionately to reconsider all the opinions, in reference to this subject, which I formerly entertained, and which I have endeavoured to express; and, considering the great interests at stake and the importance of any decision Her Majesty's Government may adopt in reference to such a subject, I should have thought it unpardonable not to have reviewed with more than ordinary caution the principles on which I have acted. I have done so, and I am bound to state to the House that the most careful consideration I have been able to bestow on the subject, has not led me to change any opinion I have before avowed with respect to this measure. It is, therefore, my duty to resist its farther progress. I will now endeavour to remove some of the obstacles to the free discussion of this measure, which have, I think, occurred in the course of the present debate. First, the hon. Member for Montrose says he deprecates any compromise. Certainly, it must be observed that the question, as it now presents itself, appears to be one not so much of principle as of detail, and therefore a compromise might on that ground be less objectionable, and a settlement by compromise might reasonably be anticipated. But I must say the petition presented by the hon. Baronet the Member for Preston (Sir G. Strickland) shows how fallacious the hope of any benefit from such compromise would be. The hon. Baronet called particular attention to the petition of the workmen of Mr. Gardner's factory. That gentleman, with a most praiseworthy
 1242 1243 l. l. l. 1244 totidem verbis, 1245 Manchester Guardian 
 
 COUNTS OF YARN SPUN, 30's TO 40's. 
 Time. Hand Mules. Self-acting Mules. Throstles. 
 Quantity spun in 69 hours, average of 4 weeks ending February 20 307,525 draws. 714 lb. 721 lb. 
 Quantity spun in 64 hours, average of 4 weeks, ending March 27 287,016 draws. 651 lb. 665 lb. 
 The proportionate quantity for 64 hours, as against 69 hours, should be 285,240 draws. 662 lb. 668½ lb. 1246 1247 1248
 SIR J. C. HOBHOUSE  thought, that some general rule ought to be laid down with regard to the sitting of Committees, as well for the convenience of the public as of the House. He was Chairman of a Committee to which a group of Scotch railways had been referred, and which had adjourned over to-day. There were many witnesses from various parts of Scotland waiting to be examined before that Committee; and yesterday there were no less than ten counsel present, and, for aught he knew, twice as many agents. He mentioned this fact to show the enormous expense incurred every day, whether the Committee did or did not sit. He had seen on the Notice Paper for to-day two measures in which his constituents took very great interest; but as he was Chairman of the Committee, it could not sit in his absence, and as he was naturally anxious to attend the House, the only course they could take was (although he regretted the necessity of the step) to adjourn the Committee until to-morrow. He considered that it should not he left to the Committees to determine whether they would or would not sit on Wednesdays, but that some invariable rule should be laid down on the subject.
 SIR R. INGLIS  would not have said a word on this subject but for an observation that had been made in the course of the speech they had just heard. He admitted that the hon. Member for Berwick was not out of order in bringing this subject before the House; but he contended that there was something higher than the order of that House, which it was becoming in all of them to respect. He submitted to hon. Gentleman opposite, if, while they were strictly and literally acting within the rules of the House, they were not absolutely violating its spirit? The hon. Member who last spoke, had permitted himself to impute motives to the Gentlemen with whom he (Sir R. Inglis) usually acted, and with whom he coincided on the present occasion. He had stated, first, that their object was to place Her Majesty's Ministers in a minority; and, secondly, that they came down to the House with reference to this question of the Factory Bill for no real interest in the factory children, but for paltry political motives. Now, he would take the liberty to state what might have been far better stated by many of his friends around him, that they yielded to none on either side of the House in a deep devotion to that cause, which was almost a sacred cause, that had brought them there that day, and which had brought them together at a time—two years ago—when they were more closely united than they now were; and when it was still more painful for them to differ from those to whom they had been accustomed to look up with respect. He would not believe for a moment that any of those who voted in the majority in favour of the Factory Bill were actuated by improper motives. He believed they entertained the views they did from a deep sense of their personal obligations, irrespective of any party considerations whatever; and let him tell the hon. Member for Manchester, whatever sympathies he might express with the inhabitants of the Shetland Isles, that they would find at least as much sympathy on the part of those around him, who might nevertheless regret that that opportunity had been selected for bringing their case
 1222
 SIR R. PEEL  did not at all dispute the right of the hon. Member to speak upon the Motion for reading the Orders of the Day; but he must observe that he came down to the House at twelve o'clock that day in the fullest expectation that they would proceed with the Factory Bill. He did not call in question the right of hon. Gentlemen, but really he did think that they were not raising their character with the country by the exercise of that right. Notice was given that on a certain day a measure would be discussed, and he thought it would be to the public advantage, as well as maintaining their own character with the country, if they would facilitate the progress of business, and proceed with that measure. He hoped, then, there would not be any further continuation of discussion, except upon the Bill to be submitted to their attention. As to the passing of the Corn Bill, and the effect it would have in enabling those islanders to export fish to Spain, and receive corn and meal in return, he admitted that the bringing about such a result was desirable; but he did hope, that, on the present occasion, hon. Gentlemen would show forbearance in the exercise of their rights, the pressing of
 1219
 SIR R. PEEL : I can assure the hon. Member that there is business of the utmost importance to be proceeded with independently of those measures to which he has referred.
 SIR R. PEEL : So far as the importance of the subject is concerned, I should be willing to appropriate a Government night to its discussion; but it is really quite impossible that the business which the Government has already introduced to the House can make way for it. It is totally out of my power to yield a Government night for the Factories Bill, until those measures of commercial policy which are now before the House shall be disposed of.
 CAPTAIN J. C. VIVIAN  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary
 1289
 MR. R. YORKE : I apprehend that if you intend to proceed in conformity with the rules of the House, it will be utterly and entirely impossible to grant the request of the hon. Member for Cork.
 MR. O'CONNELL : My hon. Friend the Member for Limerick was dissatisfied with the manner in which I put his case to the House. He does not think I argued the merits as I ought to have argued them, and he conceives that at the present moment he is really unheard.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER said : I can assure the House, Sir, that it is very painful to me to have again to repeat those opinions and those sentiments which I have so often had occasion to address to the House on this particular subject; sometimes when sitting on this side of the House, and sometimes when sitting on the other. But, Sir, I have had from these repeated discussions full opportunities of hearing all that can be urged on this particular subject, having had various opportunities of consideration and reflection; and I adhere to the opinion which I have always expressed upon the subject, that it is one in which it is not consistent with public policy for the House to interfere, and that it is one in which it is not consistent with the duty of him to whom Her Majesty has entrusted the finances of this country to acquiesce. Sir, I believe also, very strongly, that it is a matter of great delicacy on the part of the House of Commons to deal with a question of this kind in the manner in which the hon. Gentleman proposes to deal with it. A rule is most wisely laid down by the Constitution, that the House of Commons should not take upon itself, independently of the Crown, to originate any grant of money; and this rule is expressly laid down to guard against the possibility of parties being urged, rather by persons who had a direct interest, to come to a vote of public money which a consideration of the general interests of the country did not authorize, and the House, therefore, imposed the check in that respect. But it will place the Crown in that most inconvenient position of having, instead of as usual to originate such a grant, to refuse it when recommended by a Committee of this House. I think that it is a most inconvenient position in which to place the Crown, on an occasion where grave legal doubts as to the claims exist, and where the question of how far the right of the House to interfere is involved, to call upon it to make any grant upon such a matter. The hon. Gentleman commenced his speech by stating that these claims were refused on two special grounds: one of these grounds being financial, and the other being founded on international law. I do not agree with the hon. Gentleman, when he states that the objections to these claims are of a financial character. They
 1303 l. l., 1304 1305 "We are all aware that these claims are made for the losses sustained on this occasion by the act of the Danish Government; but we do not conceive that Parliament would be disposed to admit the principle that such claims could be entertained." 1306
 MR. O'CONNELL  was convinced this inquiry would do nothing but good. Where mischief existed, it would point out the remedy for it; and where good management prevailed, it would stimulate others to imitate such an example. His chief object in rising was to say he had no such horror of the truck system as had seemed to prevail amongst some hon. Members. He believed the effect of it in many cases was to enable the employer to give employment to the labourers longer than they could otherwise continue it. The labourer under it was much better and more cheaply supplied than by the village shopkeeper or the huckster; and on the part of the labourers employed on Irish railways, he must say he had no such superstitious horror of the truck system as seemed to sway many in that House.
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  thought, from information which he received, that abuses often prevailed under that system. These poor men ought, when necessary, to be protected, as, though they received high wages, they worked harder and exhausted life faster than any other class. He was bound to say that in the West Riding of Yorkshire the navigators were a very orderly set of persons.
 MR. O'CONNELL  begged to state to the House the following facts connected with the Motion he was about to make. Two persons of the name of Kyly had been
 1331 "That there be laid before this House Copies of the Correspondence between the Irish Government and Dr. Fitzgerald, stipendiary magistrate in the county of Waterford, on the subject of the trial of persons of the name of Kyly, who were tried at the last assizes of Waterford, before the Lord Chief Baron, and upon which occasion the Chief Baron pronounced severe censure on the conduct of the said Fitzgerald:—And of the Report of the said trial, furnished by the Lord Chief Baron to the Irish Government. Also, a copy of the Depositions taken by the said Dr. Fitzgerald against the prisoners, previous to their trial. Also, copies of the affidavits filed on the motion for admitting the said prisoners Kylys to bail previous to trial, with the decision of the court thereon."
 MR. O'CONNELL  had an ulterior object in moving for the Returns. The right hon. Baronet seemed to have discovered the existence of the scandalous and most disgraceful practice of taking depositions against prisoners without apprising them of evidence against them but recently, or no doubt he would not have permitted it. Such a practice would not be tolerated in this country for instant. The conduct of the magistrate, who was a Government officer with large pay and emoluments, was infinitely worse on that account than if he had been a voluntary and unpaid servant of the Crown. He had been several years a magistrate, and had not the excuse that he was ignorant of his duty. Kyly might have been executed, if the man who proved his innocence happened not to come forward at the trial, but he would have been free from danger had he heard the evidence taken against him at his committal.
 MR. BOUVERIE  moved—
 "For a Select Committee to inquire into the condition of the Labourers employed in the construction of Railways and other public works, and into the remedies which may be calculated to
 1324
 MR. HAWES : Sir, once more I venture to make an appeal to the House, and once more make the Motion which I have placed on the Paper of to-day, to consider of those Danish claims which arose out of transactions which occurred in Denmark in the year 1807. Sir, after the arguments which have been adduced against this question, and the many discussions which have taken place upon it, I should hardly feel myself justified in occupying the time of the House, unless I entertained the strongest conviction of the equity and justice of these claims. I will endeavour, Sir, to compress what I have to say into a narrow compass. Now, Sir, the arguments which have been raised against these claims have merely, so far as I have been enabled to consider them, resolved themselves into two in number. One objection was of a financial character, which has been urged upon the House from time to time by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who, I think, rather looked to the difficulty of meeting the claims, than to the justice of the case. The other objection was of a far more important character, and one that I own I feel much difficulty in contending with. I own that the legal objections which have been raised, especially by the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, who has exhibited considerable knowledge of law—especially international law—are difficult to meet. I know, also, that there are many difficulties surrounding this question. Nevertheless, those difficulties have not deterred the House, on many occasions, from affirming,
 1296 l., 1297 "As the right hon. Gentleman had alluded to a communication made by him to M. Rist, the Danish  Chargé d'Affaires, pro tanto, 1298 l., 1299 l., 1300 "That this House will, upon Wednesday next, resolve itself into a Committee, to consider of an Address to Her Majesty, praying that Her Majesty will be graciously pleased to advance to the Claimants for losses sustained by the seizure of British Ships and Cargoes by the Danish Government in 1807, the amount of their respective losses, as ascertained by the Commissioners appointed for the investigation of Danish Claims, and reported upon the 12th day of May 1840, and assuring Her Majesty that this House will make good the same."
 MR. HAWES  said: I shall occupy the time of the House but for a very short period, in reply to one or two of the observations of the hon. Gentlemen opposite. A great deal has been said about this declaration of war; and my hon. and learned Friend has relied upon this as a main point in this case. Now, will the House hear one circumstance in reference to that declaration? The expedition left this country in July, and no declaration, expressing any hostile intention was then issued. The convention was signed on the 7th September with Denmark, and it, therefore, had
 1322 Annual Register l. l., 1323
 MR. SPEAKER  asked if the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. E. B. Roche) withdrew his Amendment.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Gentleman must, in the first instance, move that the debate be adjourned before he could propose the adjournment to any particular time.
 MR. SPEAKER  put the Question on the original Motion, which was carried.
 MR. SPEAKER : In answer to the appeal of the right hon. Baronet, I must state—and I do so with very great regret—that I cannot call to my memory any precedent that would justify the House, under present circumstances, in allowing the hon. Member for Limerick to be heard in his place. The hon. Member for Limerick had an opportunity of being heard after the Report of the Committee was presented to the House, and the Order for his attendance had been read. The hon. Gentleman did not avail himself of that opportunity, and the House then resolved that he had been guilty of contempt. The House having come to that conclusion, I cannot call to my memory any case which would justify them in permitting the hon. Member for Limerick to appear in his place before they determine his punishment.
 MR. SPEAKER : There is no precedent for any Member of the House being called to the bar, unless he appears there almost, I may say, as a criminal. I am not aware of any precedent for such a proceeding.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  had always voted in favour of these claims, because he conceived them to be founded in justice. He should pursue the same course upon the present occasion, and hoped all hon. Members on his side the House, whether they sat in the vicinity of the Treasury benches or not, who had ever supported them, would not shrink from doing so on this occasion.
 MR. ROCHE : Of course, as it is contrary to the rules of the House.
 MR. E. B. ROCHE : Of course, Sir, I
 1294
 MR. E. B. ROCHE : It will be in the recollection of the House, that towards the conclusion of the debate on Tuesday, it was my duty to come down from my hon. Friend the Member for Limerick (Mr. W. S. O'Brien), and on his behalf to convey a certain intimation to the House. The right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir R. Peel), acting, I must admit, in a most fair and amicable spirit, thought well not to receive that intimation, but to give my hon. Friend forty-eight hours for consideration, during which he might determine what course he would pursue. Now, Sir, my hon. Friend complains—and, as far as I am concerned, I think his complaint is just—that he has not had an opportunity of explaining fairly and distinctly to the House the position in which he is placed, and the reasons which have induced him to adopt a certain line of conduet. I do not state what course my hon. Friend will pursue to-night. I have only to ask the House, either by Motion, or in any other manner consistent with its forms, that my hon. Friend may be allowed to attend in his place or at the bar, to explain to the House the reasons which have led him to take the course he has hitherto pursued, and which influence him in adopting the course of action he intends to follow. It is true I may be asking the House to take a course not in consonance with its ordinary rules and regulations; but I am sure, when I appeal to the House on behalf of an hon. Gentleman who stands in the painful position of being sustained by scarcely any individual in this assembly, and of adopting a course of action which is not supported even by those who usually act with him on all public questions, that the House will be disposed to give a favourable consideration to the request I now have to make. Although that request may not be
 1292
 MR. CARDWELL  was prepared to hear there were irregularities in the despatch of newspapers by the morning mails, but not in respect of letters. He was prepared to answer the complaint of the hon. Member as to newspapers. He was aware that complaints were made of the irregularities now taking place in the morning mails; but he was by no means prepared to believe that in the majority of instances those irregularities were the fault of the Post Office. They were, however, at present the subject of careful inquiry at the Post Office. The reason, he believed, was the great increase in the circulation of the London daily papers during the last few months. From a return that had been prepared, it appeared that the number of newspapers sent by the morning mails (as we understood) was now 729,000 per week. A great increase had also taken place in the bulk of the newspapers. He held in his hand a copy of one of the daily journals as it was sent through the post. Let the House think of 729,000 such packets travelling through the General Post Office. Still, he repeated, he did not believe that in the majority of instances the irregularities were connected with the Post Office. Many newspapers were posted without covers; some were misdirected; others imperfectly directed; and numbers were sent at the last minute. The increase in the number sent by the morning mails was the leading cause of the inconvenience for which the Post Office was responsible, and the following measures were being resorted to: an enlargement of the building; some new machinery was about being brought into operation, and an additional number of persons were appointed for the discharge of the increasing duties. So far as Ministers or the Post Office were concerned, the House might rely that everything would be done to remedy, in future, the inconveniences complained of. He (Mr. Cardwell) was in constant communication with the Post Office authorities, and every circumstance that impeded the efficiency of the General Post Office was brought under his notice by them. That department of the public service, he knew, desired and endeavoured to discharge their duties properly.
 MR. CARDWELL : On no occasion should I have presumed uninvited to enter the lists with my hon. Friend opposite, for the purpose of attempting to sustain an argument of a legal character; but on the present occasion as my hon. Friend has called on me I shall not shrink from the task, and I will endeavour to give a legal argument, which for the first time since the commencement of this discussion, has ever been submitted to the House. It will appear remarkable to those not familiar professionally with legal subjects, that with all the acumen of Sir James Mackintosh, and all the crown lawyers that then held office under Her Majesty, it has been reserved for to-night to bring forward a legal argument against the subject on which I feel it my duty now to speak. For the sake of the parties who sustained injury arising from the expedition to Copenhagen in 1807, this case was raised by Sir James Mackintosh; and he stated that if any portion of those goods were taken by Denmark in contravention of the established law of nations, it became our imperial duty to vindicate that law on the part of the subjects who were injured; and if for any reason whatever we failed in discharging that duty, it became our duty to compensate the subjects who suffered by our refusing to discharge that duty. This was when the Danish claims were first raised; and Sir James Mackintosh and those who were engaged with him in their former attempts, took care to have nothing to do with the part of the claims now the subject of discussion. They felt that it was necessary, resting on that ground, carefully to distinguish between those claims which demanded compensation for property on shore, and book-debts, and those claims on behalf of ships and cargoes, because they felt that in such a position there was one reply which could be made, if ships and cargoes were acknowledged to stand on the same footing as the property on shore. Why did the hon. Gentleman opposite seek to bring this case within the law of nations, when the real ground on which it rested was whether the reprisals were made before or after the declaration of war? What follows has relation to the subject of reprisals. The hon. Gentleman has grounded his position on a point of law, on which it is necessary that the legal argument should be clearly understood
 1312 1313 1314
 MR. HUDSON  rose, pursuant to the Notice he had given, for the purpose of moving that the following Clause should be inserted in all Railway Bills of the present Session, by which new companies are to be incorporated:—
 "And be it enacted, that the directors shall, within three months of the passing of this Act, cause the names and additions of all the several corporations and persons entitled to shares in the company, to be entered in the 'Register of Shareholders,' directed to be kept by 'the Companies Clauses Consolidation Act, 1845;' and the said directors shall cause an extraordinary meeting of the shareholders in the company to be called within six months from the passing of this Act, for the purpose of considering and determining whether the company shall proceed in the execution of the powers of this Act, or whether such company shall be forthwith dissolved; and it shall be lawful for such meeting so called, at which three-fifths at least of such shareholders shall be present, either personally or by proxy, to determine either that the company shall proceed in the execution of the powers of this Act, or that the company shall be forthwith dissolved; provided that before such meeting be called, it shall not be lawful for the company or the directors to put in force any of the powers of this Act relative to the taking or using of land; and in case such meeting so called shall determine that the company be forthwith dissolved, the company shall be thereupon forthwith dissolved accordingly, except for the purpose of winding up the affairs thereof as hereinafter mentioned; and thenceforth all the powers of this Act with relation to the taking or using of land, or otherwise, shall absolutely cease and determine, anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding (subject, and without prejudice to all existing debts, liabilities, or agreements contracted
 1326 l. 1327 London Gazette, 1328 bonâ fide l. l.
 MR. AGLIONBY  rose to express his opinion that it was a dangerous thing to have such a large body of men assembled together, without having them under complete control. There had been several instances where riots had ensued between the Scotch and Irish labourers engaged on the several lines, and therefore he thought there was a necessity for some check being put upon them to prevent their recurrence.
 MR. H. GRATTAN : I have been requested to make a statement to the House on behalf of my hon. Friend the Member for Limerick. That statement has been handed to me in writing, and is in these words:—
 "I was in ignorance of the nature of the Resolution which the Chairman of the Committee of Selection intended to propose to the House when I declined to avail myself of the permission allowed me to address the House."
 DR. BOWRING  concurred in the necessity of inquiry. The truck system was often employed in a most intolerant and intolerable way.
 MR. HUME  condemned the "truck system;" but, at the same time said, there were many advantages conferred upon labourers by large companies supplying them with the necessaries they required. He recollected visiting the very extensive works that were established at Lanark. There all the workpeople were supplied with every necessary at 15 per cent cheaper than they could have purchased them elsewhere. He had no objection to the proposed inquiry, because he thought that it would lead to the conviction that the less they interfered between the employers and the employed, it would be so much the better for both.
 MR. HUME  said: I apprehend, if the Motion of the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. E. B. Roche) is not contrary to the rules and customs of the House, there can be no objection to acceding to it. I, for one, should be most happy to assent to it, though I am anxious to maintain the rules and orders of the House. I think, when a request is made in the manner in which this has been preferred by the hon. Member for Cork, we ought to comply with it, provided we can do so without any material infringement of our rules.
 MR. HUME : Sir, it is not necessary on this occasion to enter, after the debate that has now taken place, into details on this subject. I only wish, Sir, to say, that there is no fear of any precedent of this case ever occurring again. I trust that England will never be guilty of such harsh
 1315 l., 1316
 MR. M. MILNES  said, he wished to suggest a course by which the House might avoid the extremity to which they were about to proceed. It was clear, that if the hon. Member for Limerick remained in a state of contempt, he would be precluded from taking any part in the debates in that House. Now, he (Mr. M. Milnes) apprehended that the effect of adjourning this debate to this day six months would be to enable
 1295
 MR. M. MILNES  said, that if the House did not think his suggestion deserved consideration he would not press it. He merely wished to throw out the suggestion as a means by which the House might relieve themselves from their present painful position. He would withdraw the Amendment.
 MR. MANGLES  said, that no one could see or hear of the manner in which the railway labourers lived and conducted themselves, as they were so different from all other description of labourers, without at once admitting that some inquiry should
 1329
 MR. ESTCOURT  said, that before he proceeded to move the Order of the Day
 1291
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said: Sir, I have been, amongst others, requested to support these claims, and in giving them my support, I assure you that I do not do so without having given the subject some consideration. I will not trespass long on the attention of the House, but confine my remarks to the meaning of the hon. Gentleman who in his speech argued there was a declaration of war. The main point, it seems to me, to be considered is, whether or not there was a declaration of war. It appears to me, the fact of two of the classes of claims having been declared to be good, is an admission that there was no declaration of war. I understood it to be so
 1320
 MR. WAKLEY  said: I wish to ask a single question of the right hon. Gentleman who represents the Government. Will the Government pay the money if the House decides in favour of the Motion? The question has been decided several
 1321
 MR. WAKLEY  thought it was very creditable to the Government to have yielded so readily to the Motion of the hon. Gentleman; but he did not know what was to be gained by the inquiry. It was notorious that the labourers preferred amusing themselves to going to church on Sundays, and their inquiry could not alter that. The people themselves had not complained of their condition, and if they had, he would venture to say, their complaint would not have been attended to—as he knew that when the people petitioned the House for the redress of any grievance, their petitions were never taken notice of; but when there was no petition from the people themselves, immediately the greatest alacrity was displayed in granting any Motion made by an hon. Member; which appeared to him most extraordinary, and a circumstance that he could not account for. They had business enough before the House already, without superadding this discussion. If the people were ignorant, it was the fault of the State, which did not provide sufficient education for them. He saw no reason why the poor should be debarred from rational recreation upon Sunday, and thought that any infringement on their humble sports by the people's House would be a most impolitic as well as a most improper proceeding.
 MR. EWART , in seconding the Motion of his hon. Friend, said, that the immorality that was known to exist to so great an extent amongst that class of people was, in his opinion, a sufficient reason for requiring that some inquiry should be made.
 MR. WATSON : I trust I shall be able to show the House, on principles of public justice and national law, the justice of these claims. The right hon. Gentleman has said that those who represent large commercial constituencies have a peculiar mode of looking at the question of international law in this House. Will he allow me to make a retort, that the right hon. Gentlemen who have visited the purlieus of the Treasury seem also to have a very extraordinary view of the public policy and the public justice of international law? Now, Sir, let us see first of all what the facts are in this case, and the grounds on which this claim must succeed. These cargoes and ships were taken before any declaration of war whatsoever. This country having ascertained that a party was
 1307 1308 "We merely call upon our faithful subjects to take up arms to defend themselves and their property, and to ward off this violent attack;" 1309 "Those who have by reprisals lost their property, are bound to get compensation for their losses." "It is the duty of the State to give compensation to those on whom reprisals have fallen." "But before a State declares war"—[I beg the
 1310 "She takes possession of what belongs to another, and keeps it until payment; or he detains it as a pledge." "The effects seized upon are preserved while there is any hope of obtaining satisfaction or justice; but so soon as that hope disappears, they are confiscated, and the reprisals are then complete." "This is the last remaining effort previous to the commencement of open hostilities." "Is the Sovereign to compensate his subject on whom reprisals shall have fallen?" "It is the duty of the State or the nation to make this good, because on this principle each citizen ought to pay his quota." locus standi 1311
 MR. F. T. BARING : I am anxious to say a few words on this subject, because I invariably offered the Motion my determined opposition; and I must, in the first place,
 1317 1318 1319
 SIR G. GREY  said, that it was evident the facts, though notorious, were not known to the hon. Member for Finsbury. The hon. Member could never have seen the report of Mr. Chadwick as to some lines. It was clear from that that there were evils to be checked which could not be designated
 1330
 SIR J. GRAHAM  by no means denied the importance of the Motion of the hon. Member; and when he said so he was quite sure the House would be of the same opinion. As the hon. Gentleman informed the House that when those documents had been laid before them he intended to make
 1332
 SIR J. GRAHAM  would save the Speaker the trouble of putting the question, by at once stating that it was not his intention to oppose the inquiry. He was obliged to the hon. Member for bringing the matter under the consideration of the House, although he did not anticipate that anything very important would result from the inquiries of a Committee. He considered that railway companies did not sufficiently avail themselves of the powers with which they were vested, in keeping an efficient police force along their respective lines; and he thought that they should be compelled to do so. He must say, that in many districts it was absolutely necessary that the payments should be made to the labourers in kind, and not in money. He mentioned more particularly Westmoreland, in many parts of which, where railway labourers were employed, they were eight or ten miles from any town, and therefore in such cases it would be impossible, if they were not paid in that way, that the workmen could obtain even the common necessaries of life. He knew, however, that the system was open to great abuse; he altogether condemned the principle of paying the people in paper notes,
 1325
 SIR J. HANMER : I hold in my hand a petition from the town I have the honour to represent; and I take the opportunity of expressing in a few words the reason why I consider this question should be speedily decided. I do not think that it is altogether quite a proper question for the consideration of Parliament. I cannot say that I look with any considerable favour upon this continued renewal of the question, and I feel earnestly that justice should be done, and that a final decision upon the question shall be arrived at—and that a complete, clear, and strong expression of Parliament should be come to on the subject. As to the merits of the question it appears to me that they lie in a very narrow compass. In the case of these claims, all compensation for them was formerly denied. At that time it was stated by the hon. Member for Portsmouth, that the large and respectable body of individuals who had suffered upon the occasion, and who now claimed compensation for their losses, had no right to come to Parliament, or be compensated by the Government. I think that Government chose properly to compensate two classes of the Danish claimants. They were those claimants who could not be supposed to withdraw easily, and at a short notice, from the port of Denmark during the war: people who owned good debts in the town of Copenhagen, or possessed cargoes and valuable goods in the warehouses of Denmark, were possibly prevented from setting sail with their ships, and getting out of the reach of those who wished to obtain possession of them. Such was the argument
 1301 1302
 Sir R. PEEL : I think I have proved my desire to relax the strict rules of the House in this case, so far as any relaxation can be properly and consistently al lowed. As far as my private feelings are concerned, I am desirous that those rules should be relaxed. But, in the position I occupy, I owe a duty to the House; and I think it is of the utmost importance that we should consider how far it is consistent with the established precedents and customs of this House, and the principles upon which those precedents are founded—which are much more important than a mere pedantic observance of precedents—to assent to the Motion of the hon. Member for Cork. I must remind that hon. Gentleman that an opportunity was afforded to the hon. Member for Limerick of stating why he had declined to obey the Orders of the House; for I distinctly recollect that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. W. S. O'Brien) rose and said, that although such an opportunity was afforded him, he did not desire to avail himself of it, because his reasons were already upon record in the printed
 1293 "Mr. Smith O'Brien, being in his place, and having been called upon by Mr. Speaker, stated that he had no further explanation to offer to the House, and that he held to his determination as expressed in his Correspondence with the chairman of the Committee of Selection, and then he withdrew."
 SIR R. PEEL  had to call the attention of the House to a circumstance which had recently come to his knowledge, and respecting which it appeared desirable the House should come to an immediate decision, though no notice had been given on the subject. The circumstance he referred to was this: There was a Committee of the House of Lords now sitting to inquire into the operation of the Poor Law in Ireland, and some time since that Committee expressed a wish that the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. Smith O'Brien) should obtain leave from the House to attend and give evidence before them. The hon. Member had expressed his willingness to attend that Committee, and the House had given him liberty to do so. The Committee would sit to-morrow, and he had reason to believe that to-morrow would be the last day of their sittings. Under these circumstances, if no order was made by the House, the hon. Member for Limerick would have no opportunity of giving the
 1334
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  thought great good would be effected by inquiry. He believed that under the present state of things the men were, in many cases, defrauded by the truck system.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  differed in opinion with the hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Hudson) as to what he said in reference to their being no necessity for inquiry—as he considered it absolutely necessary, if for no other reason, on account of the large numbers of labourers that had been recently killed and wounded at one of these public undertakings. From the immense number of these people who were congregated together, away from their friends and relations, and without possessing any tie to connect them with their superiors, except that of receiving their weekly payments, and being, as he might add, altogether devoid of control and discipline, they possessed all the evils without any of the benefits of a standing army.
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  said, the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury had presented to the House a very horrid picture of the state of Ireland, which he had no doubt had produced an impression upon the minds of any persons of the absolute necessity of such a measure as that now under consideration. The right hon. Baronet drew a strong contrast between the state of crime in Ireland in 1843 and during the last year, and asked whether—if crime had so materially increased in the space of two years—some measure should not be adopted for its repression. Now, if during those two years the Government had done nothing to check crime in Ireland, the necessity of such a measure as the present might have been admitted; but if they looked to the Statute-book and in the records of Parliament, they would see that since 1843 the Government in this country and in Ireland had not been idle in adopting measures with the professed object of meeting this evil. In 1843, they dismissed from the commission of the peace all magistrates who countetenanced the Repeal movement. About twenty-two of those gentlemen were dismissed by one letter from the Lord Chancellor; thirty or forty others immediately threw up their commissions; and several who had not before been Repealers joined the Repeal Association. The Government next introduced in this House that most ridiculous of all measures—the Arms Bill, which was professedly designed to put down outrage and agrarian insurrection. By that measure, however, the same facilities were given to the ill-disposed as to the well-affected for obtaining arms and gunpowder. Previously to the passing of that Act, no person could possess a quantity of gunpowder exceeding 1 lb. without license from a justice of the peace; but now, any person holding a license to keep arms, might, upon that certificate, obtain any quantity of gunpowder he chose. The next step taken by the Government was to issue the Clontarf proclamation, and they then proceeded to arrest the leaders of the
 1354 1355 1356
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  was reluctant to trespass on the attention of the House at that period of the debate, and upon a subject on which all argument was exhausted; but, as it appeared to be the opinion that he ought to offer some observations, he would not shrink from his duty. He regretted the unusual course that had been taken of opposing the first reading of a Bill sent down from the House of Lords; but he had never, on that account, considered that any blame or censure was attributable to the Irish Members. They were animated by local interests, and national feelings, and entertaining very strong impressions as to the inexpediency of the measure, they naturally felt an earnest desire to express their sentiments—to record their hostility to a Bill of which they disapproved, at the earliest period. But, after the very full discussion the measure had now received, both as to its principle and its details, he trusted the future stages of its progress, supposing the House decided in favour of the first reading, would not be met with any unfair or improper obstruction; and that those threats which had been held out by the hon. Member for Limerick, of embarrassing legislation upon this subject by all the means which the usages of Parliament allowed, would not be carried into effect. In addressing himself to the question before the House, he would, as closely as he could, confine himself to the prominent and leading points of the various objections which had been urged on the other side. The noble Lord the Member for the city of London, at a very early period of the debate, found fault
 1371 1372 1373 1374 1375 1376 1377
 MR. PIGOTT , in reply to the observation that this Bill was not introduced until after the election of Dublin, must state that a similar proposal was introduced by his noble Friend behind him and himself before the change took place in the representation of Dublin, the simple object being to give to those whose names began with a particular letter, when they amounted to a greater number than was contemplated in the Reform Bill, an opportunity of recording their votes in an additional polling booth. The provisions were generally the same as those of the Bill he had introduced in 1841; and he affirmed that these provisions would prevent the gross and flagrant abuses which constantly took place in the voting at elections in England. He could state from his own knowledge that at one of the Dublin elections, numbers attended from day to day
 1411
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  agreed that they ought to afford every opportunity to voters to poll that was consistent with perfect security against fraud. He thought that this Bill did not give such security. Without, therefore, opposing the Bill in its present stage, he thought that they might at a future period advantageously amend it.
 MR. O'CONNELL  said, that at one of the elections in Dublin, in the letter M booth, the clerks toot five minutes to record each vote, precluding the possibility of his polling those who belonged to that booth.
 CAPTAIN FITZMAURICE  would vote for the Bill, but with reluctance. He agreed with the hon. Member for Lincoln (Mr. Collett) that a large portion of the population in Ireland was completely under the influence of "factions;" and he believed that, if the individuals directing
 1390 1391
 LORD G. BENTINCK : Mr. Speaker, that I may be within the forms of the House, I move the adjournment of this debate, in order that I may be enabled—["No, no!" "Divide!"]
 LORD G. BENTINCK  again rose, and said: Sir, it has been charged against the agricultural party, whom I feel honoured in serving—["Oh, oh!"  and and confusion. and cheers. 1406
 MR. M'CARTHY  defended it from the objections raised on a former evening by the hon. Member for Dublin, and proceeded to prove the necessity which existed for some such measure, by showing that, in several instances, not more than one-third of the voters of a certain letter could come to the poll. By the Reform Bill it was arranged that there should be a booth for every 600 voters; but at present in Dublin and elsewhere, no less than three times that number were set down for a single booth. He had a vast variety of facts, but at that late hour of the night he would not
 1410
 CAPTAIN LAYARD  felt bound to state the reasons that would induce him to support the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Cork. He did not believe that the party below the gangway opposite would give any support to the Irish Members in opposition to this Bill, although he begged to thank the noble Lord the Member for Lynn for saying that the opinions of Irish Members should be attended to in all matters regarding Ireland. If, however, the noble Lord and his Friends voted for the rejection of this Bill on the first reading, they would have some reason to be thankful to them. He thought that the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government had recently
 1395 s., s. 1396
 MR. SPEAKER : It is against the rules of the House for any hon. Member who has once spoken, either to move the adjournment of the House, or to speak again upon the same subject.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP , who spoke amidst many interruptions, was understood to say that he was always anxious to give a reason for the line of conduct which he was about to adopt, especially on a matter of such great importance as the present. The question before the House was, whether they would or would not permit to be read for the first time "a Bill for the better
 1403
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  said, as had been affirmed before by Irish Members, that it was too true that crime existed in Ireland to too great an extent, and that he deplored its existence equally with those hon. Members who had spoken before him. But his objection was that this Bill would not meet these crimes. He had no doubt that what the hon. and gallant Member who sat down said was quite true; and he had no doubt that the noble Lord, his brother, had the best possible feeling towards Ireland and the human race in general. But he was an absentee, and the better he was in character, the greater injustice it was to Ireland that he was absent. In the course of this discussion, the Irish Members did not confine themselves merely to the impropriety of what he should call the paltry and miserable Coercion Bill, but they brought before the House every grievance under which Ireland laboured. There had arisen in the House, and in the minds of the public out of the House, the conviction that no matter how they may differ as regarded remedies, the condition of Ireland and her people was a blot and a stain on the British character. In his intercourse with hon. Members on both sides, both inside and outside of that House, he found that there had been one universal admission, that, in point of fact, it lay in the people of England and in their representatives in that House to do something to relieve the misery and the destitution of the people of Ireland. He thought that that was a good result, and that it was one which it was well worth their while to spend six weeks in discovering. Everybody admitted that the state of Ireland wanted a remedy, but nobody proposed any particular one. The national party in Ireland said that they were prepared to provide their own remedy; but on the English Government lay the responsibility, if they were disinclined, to carry these remedies into effect. He must say, with all due deference to the right hon. Baronet, that he listened to his speech the other night with a great feeling of despondency for Ireland. He never was so strongly impressed with the notion that he was puzzled
 1392 1393 1394 Spectator,
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  said, it appeared that his hon. Friend the Member for Limerick, who was now kept in durance vile by the House, complained that he (Mr. Roche) had misunderstood him in what he had stated last night. Therefore, injustice to that hon. Member and to himself also, he hoped the House would permit him to read, without comment, a letter which he had received from his hon. Friend. It was as follows:—
 MR. GRATTAN  would state to the House that he and those who acted with him were as anxious to put down those outrages and to suppress that spirit of insubordination which prevailed in certain parts of Ireland, as were the hon. Members who had addressed the House on the Ministerial side. No country should be allowed to get on which tolerated such crime; and if it were permitted to continue it would drive every landlord out of Ireland. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney
 1378 "I feel assured that you will promote and confirm, by your influence and example, that spirit of loyalty and contentment which you will find generally prevalent throughout the country." 1379 1380 l. s. d. d. 1381 "I do believe that a large amount of the present violence and outrage is traceable to the low condition of the people. Their employment is precarious and uncertain; their food is the lowest in the scale of nutriment; they are ill-clothed; their houses are scarcely worthy of the name, and, such being the condition of the people, how can you expect them to be orderly and tranquil? The lowest animals are restless and unquiet when suffering under physical privation, and man is not exempt from this law. No civilization will hold him in restraint under such circumstances." 1382 l. 1383 1384 "I met Brophy, and he said, 'Can you get up a case for me against Macloughlin? Oh (said Brophy), if you can get a Ribbon document so as to connect him with the Ribbon party, it will be just as good. If you do the business well, I have done so much that I will be able to get a good pension for you from Government.'" 1385 l. l.; l.; l.; l., 1386
 MR. COLQUHOUN  hoped there would now be an end to the doubts of the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Hawes) with regard to the statements made as to crime, since the hon. Member for Tralee had admitted that it had increased, and had described the state of Ireland in one remarkable and emphatic word—"insurrection," such as there was in Clare some years ago. [Mr. M. O'CONNELL: I said agrarian insurrection.] Agrarian insurrection, then, prevailed in Ireland. [Mr. M. O'CONNELL: In some districts.] Of course, it was not the whole of Ireland that was spoken of, neither did the Bill apply to the whole of Ireland. Did not that clearly justify the grant of the augmented powers required by the Government? It was easy to complain of non-resident gentry; but how could they be expected to reside where their lives were not safe? Take the case of Mr. Clarke, who was murdered on his own property in broad daylight, in the midst of the people he employed. Take Lord Orkney's case. Lord Orkney had estates in Tipperary and in Queen's County, and he went to reside upon his estate in the former county. He had not been there many days before his table was covered with threatening letters; not a very good way of inducing an English Peer to remain a resident in Ireland, for, in spite of the opinion of the hon. Member for Lambeth, he must say that threatening notices were no very agreeable missives. Lord Orkney informed one of his tenants who had not paid his rent that he must remove from a large farm, which he had not sufficient capital to cultivate with advantage, to a smaller one; that he would forgive him all arrears of rent; and that he would give him a sum of money to transfer him from the one farm to the other. The man informed
 1357 1358 1359 Hue and Cry l. 1360 1361
 COLONEL RAWDON  said: Sir, I rise to address you under feelings of some embarrassment. I beg that the Ministers, whom I have seen, notwithstanding the greatest toil, and still greater care of office, so assiduously attending to this debate, will believe that nothing but an imperative sense of duty would induce me to add to the speeches that have been inflicted upon them. And, Sir, when I see the temper of the House, and know the state of the country, especially of that part of it my own, unhappy Ireland, the House may be assured that I shall not detain it from soon going to a consideration of the Corn Law question. And, Sir, upon this point, in passing, I wish to be permitted to allude to the somewhat remarkable conversation which lately took place between the noble Member for Lynn and an hon. Friend of mine, not in his place, of whose services I am sorry to say his country is deprived. The noble Lord appeared to indulge a hope that, by some cross or manœuvre, the Irish Members might be induced to aid him and his 240 Gentlemen in defeating the proposition of the Government. However shrewd a calculator of chances the noble Lord may be, I think in this case he reckons without his
 1398 sub silentio. 1399 1400 La populace ne se soulève jamais par envie d'attaquer, mais par impatience de souffrir. "There are a great many little huts built along the borders of bogs, without chimney or window, scarcely ten feet square. In some of these you may find a number of wretched human beings collected; very often a widow and her orphans living on the bounty of her neighbours." "Nothing can exceed the wretched condition of the commoner description of labourers' cabins; with little or no light but what is admitted by the door, and no air whatever when the door is shut but by the chimney, with the inside of the thatch completely black with smoke, often rotten with age and wet, bending under the frail and mended poles which can scarcely support it, these wretched hovels would not in any other country be considered sufficient to shelter cattle." "Fuel sometimes so scarce they have to burn the straw which forms their beds to boil their potatoes." "I have often been obliged to go to bed without my supper for want of fuel to boil it." "About one-third of the population who are of age to attend divine service are prevented by the want of clothes. The wife and girls have one shawl between them, and take it in turns to go to chapel. Many have no cloaks, and borrow when they want to go out; the children, generally, all but naked. The use of shoes and stockings is decreasing every day among the women and children; but the men must have shoes to dig with, though they are generally very bad and old." 1401 "A man, his wife, and four young children were subsisting at the rate of one-third of the usual allowance upon their new crop of potatoes, which were not so large as walnuts. The woman looked wretchedly ill; said she had not been well for weeks. When the assistant-commissioner entered the cabin, this woman was sitting on a stool, her head leaning on her hand; her fixed and vacant stare exhibiting every sign of mental and bodily stupor, and her clothes and personal appearance that of complete destitution. Around her, on the floor, sat three children, in rags, half naked. And what with this group, the bare walls of the cabin, and the dirty and neglected state of the land around it, a more complete picture of misery and desolation could hardly be imagined." "What is the state of the lower orders of the people in your diocese?—I can safely state to the Committee that the extent and intensity of their distress is greater than any language can describe; and that I think the lives of many hundreds of them are very often shortened by this great distress." "Thus he drags out an existence which it were better were terminated in any way than to be continued in the manner it is." "Reared in comfort's lap, Is it for you to measure passion's force, Or misery's temptation?" "We can't act on that. Not one landlord in fifty would give us compensation, but they will give us what they are afraid to refuse, which is tenant-right, and that we will hold in the north. My father and I have spent 500 l. 1402 l. "Thanks to tenant-right (he said), here the very least would have been claimed and got for thirty acres would have been 300 l.
 MR. P. SOMERS  said, that something more than legislation was required for Ireland. They might remove some of the evils that pressed upon that country, but the panacea for Ireland was to be found in the example and good conduct of the landlords. He hoped the Government would withdraw the measure. He expressed his thanks to Government for the desire they had evinced to relieve the distress of the Irish people by affording employment to those who required it. He called the attention of the right hon. Gentleman opposite to the claims of the town of Sligo to at least a fair proportion of the promised benefaction, for he regretted to say that the greatest distress prevailed in that place. The hon. and gallant Members for Armagh and Donegal, not content with attributing the evils which had befallen
 1353
 MR. P. BORTHWICK  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. BORTHWICK  withdrew his Motion for an adjournment, and the House divided on the Question that the words proposed to be left out stand part of the Question:—Ayes 274: Noes 125; Majority 149.
 MR. BELLEW , without regretting this discussion, did regret that it had interfered with the progress of the Corn Bill, because that was an Irish as well as an English measure; but he considered that the Irish Members were not so much to blame as had been said for the delay, as they had only acted on the defensive, and the Government had on one or two occasions allowed the House to be counted out. After this evening, however, and the division they were about to come to, he trusted that the feeling expressed by the hon. Member for Stockport would be cordially responded to by every Irish Member, of the necessity of struggling against the noble Lord (Lord G. Bentinck) and his 242 followers. It should be remembered that the Irish Members were occupied on an object which they trusted might lead to the same results as those which the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) expected from the Corn Bill, viz., to improve the condition of those who labour, and give comfort and enjoyment to millions. Intimately as this country, by the opening of railroads, and the application of the powers of steam, was connected with Ireland, the English people could not be blind to the fact, that whatever tended to increase the misery of Ireland must produce some corresponding effect here, and that whatever contributed to the prosperity of Ireland tended to enlarge the market for the manufactures of England. He opposed the Bill, first, because he thought it ineffectual for its objects, and, secondly, because it was accompanied by no remedial measures; in fact, by no measures of that kind, either express or implied. A noble Lord in another place had said (he believed) that the rights of property were positive, but that the duties of humanity were of
 1366 1367 d. 1368 1369 1370
 MR. T. O'BRIEN  was resolved to give to the measure now under consideration his most determined opposition. He was present when the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department introduced the Bill, and he had listened with the profoundest attention to the statement of the right hon. Baronet; but he could not bring himself to believe that a good case had been made out for the Government. He had heard with the deepest regret the catalogue of dark deeds alleged to have been committed in Ireland, and on which the Government relied, as affording a justifiable pretext for the introduction of
 1362 1363 1364 nisi 1365
 MAJOR BERESFORD  would merely state the reasons for his vote, in order that his conduct might not be misinterpreted on a future occasion. Connected as he was in friendship and in blood with those who had been the object of attack, he should certainly vote for the first reading of the Bill, though he considered it inefficient for the purposes intended. The evils which afflicted Ireland were of two kinds—evils of commission, and evils of omission. The evils of commission were the perpetration of murder at noon-day; and the evils of omission arose out of the neglect to punish the crimes committed. He did not think that the Bill would prevent either of these. The object of the Bill was to prevent meetings at night; but the murderer who walked at noon-day, and attacked his victim with deliberate aim, and then walked off, having done the bloody deed, was left unscathed. He could not be brought to trial, or, if brought to trial, from the system of intimidation that prevailed, he could not be convicted; and yet there was no clause in the Bill to bring those offenders to justice. The great omission in the Bill was the want of a stringent clause against the mid-day murderer. From what he had heard in Ireland, and from persons who represented a great body of the Irish people, this was a measure which would cause great irritation in the minds of the people of that country; and what had produced a great effect on his mind with reference to it was this, that irritation would be caused by a measure that did not go to the root of the evils that had produced it. Notwithstanding those views, it was his intention to vote for the measure in the present stage; and he trusted Her Majesty's Government, with the tact which they always exhibited, would correct those parts of the measure that caused irritation to his worthy countrymen opposite, and take some means to strike at the root of crimes which were awful to contemplate. It might be possible, by the introduction of a provision, to change the venue from the localities where the crimes were committed, to the metropolis; or by the introduction of some other
 1397
 MR. W. R. COLLETT  said, unhappily he knew from experience that the infusion of capital did not always prevent riot and disturbance in Ireland. He had expended large sums of money in slate quarrying in Tipperary, and had afforded employment to a great number of persons; but many crimes of a very serious nature had been committed in the district. In one case, a man of high character, who had been steward for sixteen years, was shot at and missed. He might mention that this individual was a Roman Catholic, and he did so to show that these outrages had no connexion with religion or politics. Two or three days afterwards this steward was again shot at and wounded in the side and back; he was confined to his bed for six months; his assailant was captured, tried convicted, and sentenced to death. While this unfortunate steward was suffering from his wounds, his wife was met at the door of the chapel by a man, who said to her, "You need not trouble yourself about your husband's recovery; we have subscribed the money for his death, and he's a dead man." He believed that this Bill would be of essential service, and every person in the neighbourhood considered that this was just the kind of measure required to insure the tranquillity of the country. He had
 1387 l. "Though deep, yet clear; though gentle, yet not dull; "Strong without rage;—" 1388 —"without o'erflowing, full."
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  felt desirous briefly to state the reasons which would influence him in voting as he should; and he would follow the propositions of the Amendment before the House, which alleged, first, that the system of outrage in Ireland would be aggravated, not removed, by this Bill; and, secondly, that it was the duty of Parliament to adopt measures to eradicate the causes of these crimes, instead of laws like this. It was not his intention to deny the existence, or the extent, or the enormity of crime in some parts of Ireland: life and property in those, districts were insecure; but this Bill would not repress it. Measures for the improvement of the condition of the people should have preceded measures of punishment, or at least should have been announced by the Government. This Bill would not remove starvation, or the want of employment and wages—the causes of murmurs and outrages. As for the notion of reading the Bill a first time in order to show respect to the House of Lords, he did not know when any Bills for the amelioration of the condition of the people had come from the House of Lords. No doubt, there was a complete disorganization of the social condition of the people in many parts of Ireland; they had no confidence in the higher orders of proprietors, but were completely estranged from them, and associated together to redress their own grievances. But this had arisen from a long course of misgovernment. The measures passed had been for the benefit of the upper class, not for that of the mass of the people. Such was Catholic Emancipation itself, with the disfranchisement of the 40 s. 1389
 MR. GROGAN  said, the great evil to be avoided at elections was personation. The polling places in Ireland were kept open for five days; and when the number of names under the initial letters amounted to 600, there must be a separate polling place. [Mr. O'CONNELL: You are wrong; that is what we want.] The practical result of passing the Bill would be, that there might be presented seven or eight certificates. The Bill was a partisan one. It was not till the party who introduced it were beaten at the election in 1841, and beaten on the registry until they were ashamed to show their faces in the registration court, that they thought of preparing this Bill. He should certainly divide the House against the Motion.
 SIR J. GRAHAM , in answer to a question, said, that at the close of last Session he had expressed great apprehension that it would not be expedient to make the consumption of smoke compulsory. The Report of the Commission just issued, so far from removing his doubts, had confirmed them. He should not, therefore, be prepared to bring in a Bill rendering it imperative to consume smoke in all departments of manufacture.
 SIR J. TYRELL  seconded the Motion.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, the opposition to this Bill was the most extraordinary that he had ever heard of. Because there might be an attempt on the part of some to personate, the  bonâ fide bonâ fide
 LORD INGESTRE , who also spoke amidst many interruptions said, he could not permit the observations of the hon. Member for Armagh, with respect to a question asked the other night by the noble Lord the Member for Lynn (Lord George Bentinck), to pass unnoticed. That hon. Gentleman had said with a great deal of pomposity, that there had been same collusion between the noble Lord the Member for Lynn, and the Hon. Gentlemen the Member for Limerick (Mr. Smith O'Brien). Now, let them calmly consider what were the circumstances of the case. The hon. Member for Limerick gave notice by letter to the noble Lord the Member for Lynn that it was his intention to ask him a question. He believed that the letter contained the substance of the remarks the hon. Gentleman afterwards made; but the pith of it was whether the noble Lord would support or not a particular Motion were it brought before the House. The noble Lord returned a candid and deliberate reply, and at once stated that he could not on that occasion concur with the hon. Gentleman's request. His present purpose in rising was to deny that any collusion had taken place between those two hon. Members. With respect to the particular question before the House, they had on the one hand a state of crime and destitution unparalleled in any other country—they had the murderer walking abroad in the noon-day—they beheld his person secured and sheltered by parties almost participators in the murder, who refused to afford assistance to arrest him. Could such a state of things be tolerated in any civilized land? He would give his support to the Government measure, were there provisions in the Bill stronger than those that had been introduced. He alluded particularly to the shifting of the venue—a proceeding which he considered almost indispensable, when they bore in mind the intimidation that was exercised towards jurors and witnesses. A clause of this kind, he hoped, would be introduced into the Bill when it came before them in Committee. His noble Friend the Member for Lynn had given the most distinct and explicit answer to the hon. Member for Limerick; and that answer was, that he and the party who held opinions coinciding with his, were prepared to vote for any measure that they really believed would give immediate relief to the people of Ireland. He (Viscount Ingestre) again repeated, on the part of his noble Friend and those
 1405
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  was informed, that, had his hon. Friend been able to poll the letter M booth in Dublin, he (Lord Morpeth) might have enjoyed the distinguished honour of representing the Irish metropolis. He adverted to the fact with no personal soreness, being entirely satisfied with the position he now held; but he did think it important that a constituency should not have such impediments thrown in the way of electing a Member of their choice.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : On a former occasion I cordially seconded the right hon. Gentleman opposite when he proposed the thanks of the House to these illustrious commanders; and I should, therefore, scarcely have thought it necessary to say a word now, had it not been for what has just fallen from the noble Lord, which makes
 18 19
 MR. H. J. BAILLIE  was understood to say, with reference to what had been dropped by certain Members as to Sir C. Napier, that that gallant officer had obtained 70,000 l.
 MR. WILLIAMS  could not agree in the doctrine that future generations should be taxed to pay pensions to the descendants of these general officers. As the Government proceeded on almost all occasions on precedent, he was surprised at their departure from precedent on the present occasion. On looking back to the officers who had done services to the country, he found that, with the exception of the Duke of Wellington, the allowance to third generations had not exceeded 2,000 l. l. 31 l. l. 32
 LORD J. RUSSELL  agreed with the right hon. Baronet that all favour and honour ought to proceed from the Crown; but when the right hon. Gentleman spoke of the limited means for rewarding services that were placed at the disposal of the Crown, he must say, that though he thought that it would be inconvenient either that the House should originate these grants, or that the Members should be coming down too frequently to propose them at the instance of the Crown; still he trusted that the right hon. Gentleman, if he thought those means of which he had spoken were not sufficient for this purpose, should ask the House of Commons at once to vote a sum from which the Crown might reward services as they arose, rather than have the ungrateful task of refusing those whom he, as the Minister of the Crown, thought ought to have pensions granted them, as in the case of the daughters of Sir W. Nott.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I never said anything of the kind. When I proposed a fixed duty of 8 s.,
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The hon. and learned Member who has just sat down, has declared that he did not mean to taunt the right hon. Gentleman opposite with changing his opinion, and has stated that he believes the right hon. Gentleman's change of opinion to be sincere. At the same time I must say, that the speech of the hon. and learned Member was so much wanting in argument, and consisted so
 75 76 Gil Blas. 77 78 79 80
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  observed, that the reason why the returns had not been presented was, the nature of the inquiries they involved, which were of so extensive a nature that the results could not be known at once.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  suggested that it would be well for the House to pause before it established a precedent in such a case as the present. The result might be inconvenient, and calculated
 93
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought it most desirable that there should be time to look for precedents before the House came to any decision.
 LORD FRANCIS EGERTON : I have hitherto, for what I considered good reasons, but I must say at the sacrifice of my own inclinations, remained silent when the services of our Indian army have been
 16 laudari a laudato teres atque rotundus, 17 Illustrated News,
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said: Sir, I rise to oppose your leaving the Chair, as a new feature and a new character has arisen in the discussion of this question since it came
 36
 LORD G. BENTINCK : I am glad to
 37 s., s. 
 
 1842. Price. Quarters. 
 July 30 63 s. 311,193 
 August 27 55 s. 
 September 3 53 s. 2,186,000 
 Showing a fall of 10 s. 
 1843. Price. Quarters. 
 August 19 59 s. 80,282 
 August 26 56 s. 
 September 16 50 s. 748,454 
 Fall 9 s. 
 1844. Price. Quarters. 
 July 20 54 s. 352,118. 
 August 10 48 s. 141,156. 
 Fall 6 s. 
 1845. 
 No importation exceeding 15,027 Quarters. s. d. Knight's Political Dictionary:— 38 
 
 1838. Weeks ending Six weeks' average price. Weekly average price. Duty. 
 Sept. 14. 73 s. 64 s. 1 s. 0 d. 
 12. — 61 2 8 
 28. — — 10 8 
 Oct. 5. — — 16 8 
 12. — — 20 8 
 19. — — 21 8 
 26. — — 22 8 s. s. d., s. s., "Comparative Statement of Grain sold in England, for the past Four Weeks, with the same period for 1845:— 
 
 To 5th April, 1845. 
 s. d. Quarters. 
 Wheat 46 5 123,100 
 Barley 32 5 47,878 
 Oats 21 4 44,391 
 Rye 29 6 170 
 Beans 35 0 9,203 
 Peas 35 7 1,382 
 Brought forward 226,124 39 
 
 Carried forward 226,124 
 To 12th April. 
 Wheat 46 3 99,629 
 Barley 32 5 42,183 
 Oats 20 9 53,304 
 Rye 30 6 92 
 Beans 35 5 7,270 
 Peas 36 6 878 
 To 19th April. 
 Wheat 45 11 103,786 
 Barley 31 11 36,382 
 Oats 21 4 41,139 
 Rye 32 1 94 
 Beans 35 1 7,426 
 Peas 36 1 840 
 To 26th April. 
 Wheat 45 11 115,876 
 Barley 31 6 29,255 
 Oats 20 11 47,395 
 Rye 30 9 207 
 Beans 35 9 9,369 
 Peas 36 1 706 
 Total 821,291 
 To 4th April, 1846. 
 Wheat 55 9 120,292 
 Barley 30 0 73,593 
 Oats 22 6 56,479 
 Rye 33 7 300 
 Beans 34 10 11,460 
 Peas 34 2 1,831 
 To 11th April. 
 Wheat 56 0 104,616 
 Barley 30 9 66,285 
 Oats 22 9 46,603 
 Rye 33 4 200 
 Beans 35 1 11,961 
 Peas 33 8 1,965 
 To 18th April. 
 Wheat 55 10 101,107 
 Barley 30 5 58,140 
 Oats 22 9 41,937 
 Rye 35 5 371 
 Beans 34 9 9,599 
 Peas 34 5 1,456 
 To 25th April. 
 Wheat 55 6 118,357 
 Barley 30 1 53,641 
 Oats 23 4 45,537 
 Rye 33 7 332 
 Beans 34 10 10,536 
 Peas 33 10 1,392 
 Total 937,990" 40 
 
 AMSTERDAM. Greatest fluctuation in the same year. 
 s. d. Fluctuation. 
 Highest (1839) 42 6 per cent. per cent. 
 Lowest (1839) 17 6 147 1839 147 
 Average price, 6 years, 15 s. d. 
 DITTO OATS. 
 Highest (1839) 23 5 per cent. per cent. 
 Lowest (1836) 9 0 155 1836 122 
 Namely, highest, 20 s.; s. 
 HAMBURGH RYE. 
 Highest (1839) 53 0 per cent. per cent. 
 Lowest (1837) 20 6 165 1839 112 
 Namely, highest, 53 s.; s. d. s. d. 41 
 
 OATS. 
 Highest (1840) 30 0 per cent. per cent. 
 Lowest (1836) 11 0 172 1838 163 
 Namely, highest, 29 s. d.; s. d. 
 DANTZIC RYE. 
 Highest (1840) 31 8 per cent. per cent. 
 Lowest (1839) 10 6 210 1838 163 
 Namely, highest, 27 s. d.; s. s. d. 
 OATS. 
 Highest (1838) 14 0 per cent. per cent. 
 Lowest (1835) 6 6 133 1835 54 
 Namely, highest, 10 s.; s. d. 
 RIGA RYE. 
 Highest (1840) 28 0 per cent. per cent. 
 Lowest (1839) 15 0 86 1838 68 
 Namely, highest, 27 s.; s. s. d. 
 OATS. 
 Highest (1839) 20 0 per cent. per cent. 
 Lowest (1837) 10 9 100 1837 70 
 Namely, highest, 17 s.; s. 42 "No one, Gentlemen, is a greater friend than I am to the influence of landed property, and, I will say, to the preponderance of the agricultural interests in a great country. I am convinced that that interest is the best and most solid foundation for the prosperity and the security of society. I am, then, for my own part, a very sincere and very decided friend of the influence of the agricultural interest in a great country. No one can deny that in England in particular it is the influence of landed property, of the agricultural interest, to the influence of what people have been in the habit of calling the territorial aristocracy, that England owes its strength, and a great part of its liberties, and its prosperity. England has found in that class what all great nations will find among the same class, while they search for it, the spirit of
 43 "Let us, therefore, lay the first portion of Sir Robert Peel's plan aside. It is a great and beautiful spectacle given to us, but there is nothing in it which we should hurry ourselves to take or to apply at home. Let us, then, look to the second. Gentlemen, the second part, the extension of competition as applied to the different branches of national industry, my hon. Friend the Minister of Commerce frankly told you yesterday was the very plan on which the French Government has been acting for several years past. It is true that in the matter of industry we are conversators, we are protectors. We intend to maintain the conservative system and the protecting system; but we also intend to modify, to enlarge, and to soften it in proportion as new wants may require, and as the change or new opportunities may cast up. Not only do we intend to do this, but we have always done it. How many prohibitions have been abolished since 1830? How many tariffs have been lowered? If a table of these abolitions and reductions were placed before you, you would see what progress we have already made in that course, truly liberal and reforming, while it is at the same time moderate and prudent." "The economical reforms proposed in the British Parliament cannot fail to have fixed the general attention. Those who think that we should not hesitate to imitate the example given us by the English Parliament, advise a premature and dangerous act." 44 45 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. Olive "Market Browne, Monday 21, 1846. "My dear Lord—I have thought it right to permit three weeks to pass over since I last wrote, in order that I might be enabled to send your Lordship a report embracing the proceedings of these markets in our principal towns, and which generally regulate and determine the prices throughout the country: the markets of Westport and Castlebar, to which I refer, three weeks since, suddenly, and without any apparent cause, got into a very excited state, and prices of meal and potatoes advanced considerably." 46 "But the two last market prices of potatoes and meal have returned to the most moderate rates, with supplies, which, both in quantity and quality, have never been exceeded at this season of the year—indeed, the supply of potatoes at Westport, last Thursday, was so great, that a considerable portion had to be stored from want of purchasers; and, at Castlebar, Saturday's prices were drooping, with a full supply and quality excellent: the present prices throughout the country may thus be quoted:—Perlor potatoes, first quality of the article, from 3½ d. d. d. d. s. s. 47 d. d. d. d. s. s. Dublin Evening Mail "The labourers in the South Riding of Tipperary refuse to work for less than 1 s. d. d. d. s. s. d. 48 "With respect to the outrages which have taken place at Clonmel and vicinity, I have to state, that on the 17th instant, the magistrates of Clonmel met, during the turmoil, and represented to Government that the outrages which have taken place in that town and neighbourhood, particularly the attack on the boats, have not been committed by the destitute poor; that though destitution does exist to a great extent, it is made by others a pretext for an insurrectionary movement of a very dangerous character, which, if not immediately checked, may be productive of very serious consequences; that parties of loose character, at night, went to the farmers residing at the foot of Sliem, Naman Mountain, and obliged them to join the movement, and give their carts for the purpose of placing them at the bridge of Killshelan village, in order to carry away the plunder taken from the boats of the Clonmel merchants; they also stated, that on the day previous (the 16th) they had information of a large party of armed men being at the above bridge. For my own part, I can confidently state, that it is the unanimous opinion of the authorities that these outrages have been principally, if not wholly, committed by mere plunderers, and by mobs of farmers' servant men, temporarily hired, and other loose characters, strangers in this country, who, this season in every year, wander about the country, looking for employment. I should add that Clonmel cannot be excelled by any town in England of same extent, for more steady, regular, and constant employment of mechanics and the labouring classes." d. d. d. l., l. 49 Evening Mail, "Your panic-mongers have eaten dirt, and are regorging it in apologies and excuses for the low prices which potatoes have fetched throughout the country for the four last months. One authorized reporter assures us that this unforeseen anomaly is owing to the farmers drafting them off to market in order to get rid of them before they become tainted or rotten. This reasoning has been cheered and echoed in the House of Commons from day to day; and yet, here we are on May-eve, the period fixed for the total exhaustion of the produce; and so far are the perverse potatoes from fulfilling the prophecy, that they are actually coming in the market in greater abundance than is required by the consumers as food, and of those also who want them for seeding their land. Nay, more, it is the opinion of the best informed upon the subject—and I have spoken to many whose knowledge and inquiries are extensive—gentlemen, farmers, and labourers—that as soon as the planting season is over, we shall have good, sound, healthy potatoes, much cheaper than they are at present. There is great demand for labour throughout the country, at advancing wages—the current prices being from 1 s. s. d. s. Dublin Evening Mail "At Granard, on Monday last, there was an immense supply of potatoes, at from 3 d. d. d. d. s. d. s. d. d. "At Ballyjamesduff, where (if Parliamentary Reports are to be credited) the scarcity is said to be so great as to drive people to suicide (!), the market on the 21st of April was glutted with the supply. Many cart-loads of good, sound, healthy potatoes left the market unsold, though offered so low as from 3 d. d. 50 d. Mayo Constitution: "We are happy to state that provisions still continue at moderate prices in this town. Indeed we cannot say that a scarcity is to be feared in this neighbourhood. Potatoes rated on Saturday last, at from 3½ d. d. s. s. d, d. s. s. d. d. s. d. s. Clare Journal "Our two last market days were absolutely overstocked with this edible; and in the memory of the most experienced market men, seldom has a better description or a larger supply been witnessed here; they seem to have resuscitated and come forth in their primitive fame and comeliness, to cheer the heart of brother Pat in his most desponding moment. There has been a marked similarity between the disease by which they were partially affected, and that of the frightful pestilence, cholera, which committed such ravages in many families, while their neighbours totally escaped its scourge—the crops of many turned out prolific and sound, and so continued; when others—unfortunately the most struggling people—suffered most by the visitation; and a loss in a poor man's customary food, he being solely at the mercy of casual labour, overpowers and brings him to a state of pauperism. Were it not for the failure, of which we have heard so many complaints—greatly exaggerated we are sure they have been—potatoes would be almost a drug in this and other markets. There were 140 tons brought into Sligo market on last Saturday, which sold from 1 s. s. d. d. d. s., 51 préfets "I deem it useful to fix our opinion on the subject, in order that you may guard against exaggerations, and to furnish you with the means of reassuring the people, always so easily alarmed in matters relating to provisions." 52 Times "We must also remember that the cry about an Irish 'famine' does not proceed from uninterested parties. The Irish peasantry will make a 'poor mouth' because they hope to get some of England's bounty, and to escape paying their rent. The Irish landlords generally have no reason to contradict the cry in this country, for if John Bull is persuaded that the Irish are starving, his sympathies will be roused, and whatever he pays or gives to Ireland will find its way to the landlords' pockets eventually; at any rate, it will stop a hole in the gap of necessity, which they must fill up themselves if John Bull does not, for the peasant will consume the rent rather than starve. And lastly, at this juncture, Sir Robert Peel and the Government listen favourably to such an outcry, for it greatly aids the success of their measure regarding the Corn Laws." 53
 LORD G. BENTINCK  moved that the Chairman should report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, my hon. Friend the Member for Dorsetshire has vindicated the noble Lord the Member for Lynn from the imputation cast upon him by the First Lord of the Treasury. I am surprised, indeed, that the motives which influenced the noble Lord could have been misinterpreted. My noble Friend came forward to propose the remedy which he thought was necessary for the state of Ireland. He admitted a partial exigency. He proposed a method which would meet that exigency. He believed there was a systematic and inveterate evil, and he indicated the measure which he thought was required to meet it. That was the position of my noble Friend. It was true my noble Friend said more, but it was obviously a  reductio ad absurdum. 81 82 83 s. s. 84 85 86 87 88 89
 MR. HAWES  moved, that Mr. Charles Buller should have leave to attend as Counsel before the House of Lords.
 MR. HAWES , under the circumstances, would withdraw the Motion, reserving power to bring it forward again for ultimate decision.
 CAPTAIN LAYARD  was sure there was not a soldier but would be delighted to hear of the honours conferred on Lord Hardinge and Lord Gough, chiefs under whom any soldier would be proud to serve. But he could not refrain from calling the attention of the House and the East India Company to the merits of those humble but deserving men who occupied the ranks. He trusted there was now a different feeling than formerly with regard to the British soldier. The right hon. Baronet had shown what these men had performed in the Peninsular war as well as since, and he referrred particularly to the gallant conduct of the troops at Albuera; but what record had those gallant men received who survived that action? The brave soldiery were, he contended, entitled to some memorial of their country's gratitude, something to show that, while we remembered the chiefs, the armies which they commanded were not forgotten. He was happy to learn that the men engaged in India were to have medals—a fact that would rejoice the heart of the soldier; but, in addition, there was another gratification which could be conferred upon them, and that was, to give them the benefit of two years'
 28
 MR. C. BULLER  explained, that he had at first been of opinion that he could not appear before the House of Lords as counsel on a private Bill; but, on inquiry, he was inclined to believe that precedents could be found for such a course with respect to Bills that had passed the House of Commons and gone to the Upper House. Leave had been given to the hon. Member for Bath to appear on the Sudbury Bill before the House of Lords. Under any circumstances, he should have felt himself bound to refrain from voting on any Bill for which he was interested as counsel. It might be replied, that he had no right to waive his duty as a Member of that House; but he wished to know how far the principle was to be carried. Many hon. Members had the most direct interest in Bills before that House, being connected with them as directors and shareholders of private companies. He was desirous that the House should decide the question, and would most readily bow to any decision they might think proper to announce.
 MR. C. BULLER  begged leave to ask, as this species of delay was persevered in, whether a distinct understanding had not been come to among hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the House, that after the division on going into Committee, no further delay would be attempted? He only alluded to a private understanding come to out of that House, and though he should admit that the House generally was not bound by any such arrangement, still he thought that language held among Gentlemen in private should be afterwards acted on, unless it were a matter of importance with the hon. Gentlemen below the gangway
 92
 MR. PACKE  said, at that late hour it was impossible to think of going into the clauses. He would therefore move that the Chairman do leave the chair, and report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 MR. SPEAKER  observed, that the Bill might involve a matter of public policy or of private interest. The House had granted permission to the hon. Member for Bath to appear as counsel before the other House of Parliament, in reference to a measure of the former class, namely, the Bill for the disfranchisement of the borough of Sudbury. He (Mr. Speaker) did not know a precedent where a party had been allowed to plead before the House of Lords on a private Bill.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, they knew nothing of understandings on that side of the House; they had a very simple, but he hoped determined course to pursue; and he hoped his noble and hon. Friends near him would not let that course be interrupted by any understandings. He meant secret understandings. They would have nothing of the sort on that side of the House. Hon. Gentlemen opposite, and right hon. Gentlemen on the Treasury Benches might have; and he made no doubt had private understandings, but he would have nothing of the sort. But he would subscribe to this understanding—to take that plain course which the world would comprehend. Hon. Gentlemen opposite and right hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House wished to misguide the public, and as an instance of that he would ask why had not the return for which he had moved on the 8th of April been since laid on the Table? He hoped that some Member of Her Majesty's Government would enlighten him as to the cause of that return not having yet been furnished.
 MR. MORRIS  could confirm the statement of the hon. Member for Coventry (Mr. Williams) with respect to the straitened circumstances of Sir W. Nott's family. Of the pension of 1,000 l. l. 33
 MR. GEORGE BANKES  said, that the right hon. Baronet had observed that he anticipated that no discussion would have taken place in that stage of the Bill; but his right hon. Friend had perhaps forgotten the very emphatic declaration he made on the last occasion when the subject of the Corn Laws was introduced; and as no previous opportunity had offered for any of his (Mr. Bankes's) Friends near him to make any observations on that point, they felt called upon to do so now. It could not escape observation that there was a very important distinction between the present and the former declarations of the right hon. Baronet made a few weeks or months ago; for then he said that he had been led to the conclusion that the maintenance of these laws could not be continued in regard to public policy; but now he said that he believed the maintenance of these laws was unjust. It would have been singular indeed if the first opportunity was not taken by some of those who entertained the same views which had been so long and ably advocated by his right hon. Friend, however little qualified they might be to tread in the steps which he had taken, and in which he had induced them to follow him, if they did not remark on what had taken place. It became them, if they saw no reasons for change, and could not find any in the arguments which his right hon. Friend now used, which would serve as an answer to those he had so often put forward on former occasions—it became them to express their regret at this change of opinion on the part of his right hon. Friend, which indeed seemed to have been brought about with a view of keeping ahead of the noble Lord opposite, and to unarm him in his career. He was bound to give every credit to the declarations of one so eminent and distinguished and of such high character as his right hon. Friend, and no taunt should fall from him as to the change in his opinions. He
 71 72 73 74
 SIR H. W. BARRON  explained that what he stated was, that the companies could only call on the shareholders for the payment of calls in certain proportions, and at stated intervals, generally every three months. All the calls that had been made by Irish companies had been very punctually paid.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet. Several of the Irish railway companies had, he believed, made applications to Government for pecuniary advances, to enable them to proceed with their works, on the ground that their Acts of Parliament prevented them from making calls upon their shareholders, except at certain intervals and at long periods. Some of the companies, especially those whose lines would pass through the most distressed districts, had pressed upon the Government the necessity of advancing them a portion of the capital they were empowered to raise, in anticipation of their calls, on proper security being given, and subject to the payment of interest. He wished to ask, whether the Government were prepared to make any such advances to these companies to enable them to afford employment to the people in the distressed districts of Ireland?
 MR. ROEBUCK , after what had just fallen from the noble Lord, rose with fear, lest he might hazard, not the honour, but the reward that was due to gallantry and skill unsurpassed in any transactions connected with war in India. Need he say, that he referred to one whose name was to be found in the chronicles of British glory—he meant Sir C. Napier, who had seen fifty years' service, and had added a kingdom to our Indian empire, with the least
 20
 MR. HUME  declared that it gave him great satisfaction to concur in the votes proposed. It was not often that he concurred in votes of this kind; but, setting entirely aside the gallant achievements of Lord Hardinge, no officer in his time had stood before the public a greater advocate for peace and moderation, and on that ground he was very anxious to see this country confer a liberal reward. He could easily conceive what inducements an officer in his situation had to continue the war, and take possession of that which might be productive of great individual benefit to him. The speedy manner in which he brought to a conclusion the hostilities there, deserved from the Company and the Government their highest thanks. Looking to what might have been the consequences of another campaign, he was on this ground extremely pleased to give this vote his support. He could not but believe, that looking to the very small amount the grants would come to, compared with the great benefit derived, the Court of Directors might anticipate a unanimous vote from the Court of Proprietors. Although on many points objections might be taken, we must not look to individual points, but hold out to others a motive to follow in the same general career. Allusion had been made to Scinde; he trusted the subject of that conquest would be brought before the House, for one of the greatest benefits to this country, and an act honourable to the Government, would be the restitution of that kingdom to its lawful rulers. He had much satisfaction in hearing that the East India Company had adopted a mode by which the European privates who had most distinguished themselves should be rewarded for their heroic conduct. He hoped they would also reward the native troops, on whom they placed so much dependence, and from whom they demanded such important services in these contests. In conclusion, he had much pleasure in stating that he entirely concurred in the vote now before the House.
 MR. M. GORE  cordially concurred in the proposal which had been submitted by the right hon. Baronet, and observed that, whatever might be done by that House with the view of raising to still greater spleen-dour the deeds of the gallant officers whose claims were now before them, those deeds must ever live in the recollections of their grateful countrymen. Many Gentlemen must remember the circumstance that when
 26 27
 MR. P. BENNET  moved to report progress.
 SIR C. NAPIER  begged to assure the House that no man more heartily rejoiced than himself at the honours and rewards which had been conferred upon Lord Hardinge and Lord Gough. He did not think that any man, be he soldier or sailor, would grudge those gallant officers the rewards which had been announced to be in store for them; and it was a proud thing to think that, after a peace of thirty years, the blood which ran in the veins of the British soldiers of the Peninsula, ran as warmly as ever it did. He must agree with the noble Lord opposite (Lord F. Egerton) in thinking that a sufficient reward had not been conferred upon that gallant officer Sir Henry Smith. With but 12,000 men he defeated an army greatly superior to him in force, in the most gallant manner that ever such an exploit was performed. When one read an account of Sir Henry Smith's action at Aliwal, and the manœuvres which he went through, in order to relieve Loodianah, it was impossible not feel impressed with the sense of the very great value of which his services had been to the country. He knew it was a general feeling that when an officer was detached in command of a force by the Commander-in-Chief, the officer so detached was not entitled to a reward. It must be remembered, however, that Nelson was not a Commander-in-Chief when he was detached by Lord St. Vincent with a squadron, and fought the battle of the Nile, for which he was rewarded with a Peerage. He was most unwilling to enter into any remarks upon the observations made by the hon. and learned Member for Bath with respect to his (Sir C. Napier's) own relative; but he did not think that he should do his duty towards his gallant relative if he did not say that, in his opinion, that gallant officer had not received the reward to which he was entitled. It was a most remarkable thing that scarcely had the despatches of Sir Henry Hardinge and Sir Hugh Gough arrived in this country, announcing the result of the first battle with the Sikhs, when the right hon. Baronet immediately
 24
 SIR DE L. EVANS  was induced to address the House chiefly in consequence of the highly gratifying communication which had been made to the House by the hon. Member for Beverley, as to the resolution of the Court of Directors. He thought that when they had departed from their precedent in this instance, he would not be presumptuous in drawing their attention to the services of those other officers who had performed actions of great glory in-this war, and which had been productive of the utmost advantage. In particular, he would refer to the services of Sir Henry Smith; and he trusted that they would not, since they had departed from precedent, consider that he was out of place in submitting such a proposal for their serious deliberation. The hon. Member for Montrose had expressed his satisfaction at the change which had been recently made by the Court of Directors, in admitting British private soldiers to commissions in cases where they were found to merit them. He considered this to be a very important gain in the regulation of the service; and he must express the high gratification he had felt at the fact, that non-commissioned officers had been raised in British regiments to the rank of commissioned officers.
 SIR D. L. EVANS  admitted that Sir H. Smith had got on the staff of the army, which was worth 5,000 l.,
 SIR J. GRAHAM  thought the question was one to be decided more by precedent than by the introduction of any new rule. If there were any precedent, there could be no difficulty in acceding to the hon. Gentleman's proposition; if there were no precedent, the matter was so important that it was desirable to consider it maturely. Perhaps it would not be improper to inquire what was the opinion of the Speaker.
 MR. HOGG  begged to explain that the Court of Directors had come to the resolution of raising non-commissioned British officers to the rank of ensigncy unattached, and on the recommendation of the Commander-in-Chief 100 l. l. 30
 MR. HOGG  should be very sorry if the East India Company were liable to the strictures which the hon. Gentleman had cast on their conduct with respect to Sir W. Nott. That gallant officer had been rewarded by the East India Company, and they did it in this way: after his return from Affghanistan, he was appointed resident at Lucknow, the most lucrative post in the gift of the Company, except a seat in Council, to which he would have inevitably have been appointed had it pleased Providence to spare his life. General Pollock has been appointed to a seat in Council, which he enjoyed at the present moment. The emoluments of that situation were not less than 10,000 l. l.
 MR. HOGG  felt, that if hon. Members were to enumerate the names of those who had been distinguished for a long course of military service and glory in India, this
 21 l. l. 22 23
 SIR J. HANMER  expressed his complete concurrence in the views thrown out by the hon. Baronet the Member for Oxford. He considered that if they were asked, as Members of the House of Commons, to concur in a vote that would enable Viscount Hardinge and Lord Gough to support the honours of the Peerage, it would be more satisfactory that the pension which that vote went to bestow should be given, notwithstanding any grant made by the East India Company. He was not aware of the circumstances of these noble Lords; but when he considered that in all likelihood they were like many other gallant officers, who began the world not with much wealth, he thought that the provision which would be made, both by the House and the country, for the support of the families of the two noble Lords was not likely to be too great.
 SIR R. INGLIS  said, that his single object in rising to address the House, was to express a hope that Her Majesty's Government would not, as his right hon. Friend had stated, give to the East India Company the honour of first rewarding Lord Hardinge and Lord Gough. He could not but think that it was somewhat shabby to deprive this country of the glory and privilege of rewarding its gallant defenders in their lifetime. Would any hon. Gentleman rise in his place and say that the cumulative pension would be more than an equivalent and just reward for the services which had been rendered? He apprehended that there would not be found on either side of the House any individual who would make such a statement. After all, the amount proposed to be saved was so inconsiderable, looking to the period of life at which each of these distinguished officers had arrived, that he could not but think that we ought not to surrender to any other body that which was the distinguishing prerogative of the House of Commons. If, therefore, it were possible to make the grants which had been proposed by the right hon. Baronet irrespective of any other grant made by any other body, he should have greater satisfaction in voting for them, than if they were made
 25
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, the course of this debate has served strongly to show the policy of our leaving the consideration of these matters to the fountain of all honour. I adopted the usual course on this occasion. The Crown having conferred a Peerage on two individuals whose circumstances did not enable them to support the dignity, in pursuance of the usual course I proposed to Parliament, as Minister of the Crown, that we should assist by a grant; but having done so, the debate has taken a course which has led to a review of the military services of almost all the gallant officers who have served in the late Indian campaigns. Reference has been made to Sir H. Smith; the mention of his name called up hon. Members to speak of the services of Sir C. Napier; then General Gibert was mentioned; and now the services of Sir W. Nott and General Pollock have been brought in review before the House. This being the case, the House must see how unfit we are to enter upon the discussion of these subjects, and of the rewards to which each officer is entitled, and the degree of merit which belongs to him. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Williams) finds fault with the provision which I have proposed for the services of Lord Hardinge; because, he says, that there is no usage for granting more than 2,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. 34 l. 35
 SIR R. PEEL  said, the real difficulty as to the payment of these calls in Ireland arose from the same cause which had produced similar difficulties in this country—namely, the enormous extent to which railway speculation had been carried, and the consequent effect upon the market. The House had already passed Resolutions, and the provisions of a measure were under consideration, with the object of affording facilities for winding up improvident speculations, at the discretion of the parties concerned in them. The Government must, therefore, be cautious not to counteract the effect of those Resolutions, by undertaking to make advances to railway companies. A company which had completed a certain portion of its line, and had given evidence not only of its solvency, but of the probability that the undertaking would be remunerative, would, he apprehended, have no difficulty in providing satisfactory security; but many companies were prevented from proceeding in consequence of the number of these speculations, and the inability of the shareholders to pay up the calls. He thought, therefore, that any interference in the way of advances, except under special circumstances, and with full justification, would only add to the existing difficulties. He (Sir R. Peel) could not, as he before stated, give any general assurance on this subject. He could only recommend those companies desirous of obtaining an advance of public money to apply
 9
 SIR R. PEEL  said: Mr. Speaker, it has been my duty so recently, on two separate occasions, to attempt to do justice to the distinguished services and merits of the officers who are the immediate subjects of these Messages from the Crown, and not only to them, but to all the officers and men, European and Native, who served under their command, that I conceive it would be an unwarrantable trespass on the time of the House, if, on this third occasion, I were to call the attention of the House specially to the distinguished services they have rendered in the campaign on the banks of the Sutlej. On those occasions, the House, by a unanimous vote, assented to the Resolutions which I had the honour of proposing. The House gave a convincing proof how deeply it felt the extent and the value of those services, by the ready and unanimous assent which it accorded to the Resolution, that a Vote of Thanks should be given to those distinguished officers; and I allude to the recorded Vote of the House as a reason why I should not again attempt to describe their actions, rather than venture to recapitulate them. But, Sir, this Message from the Crown not only alludes to the triumphant services of Viscount Hardinge and of Lord Gough in the late victorious campaign of the Sutlej; but it also states that Her Majesty has been graciously pleased to recommend this House to adopt such measures as will enable Her Majesty to confer upon them some signal mark of Her favour for their distinguished services upon other occasions. Perhaps, then, the House will permit me to allude to those services which Viscount Hardinge and Lord Gough have performed for their country in other campaigns than the recent one upon the banks of the Sutlej. Her Majesty has been graciously pleased, in return for all those services, to confer the honour of the British Peerage on Viscount Hardinge and
 10 11 "Myers was killed; Cole himself, and Colonels Ellis, Blakeney, and Hawkshawe fell, badly wounded, and the whole brigade, 'struck by the iron tempest, reeled and staggered like sinking ships.' 'Suddenly recovering, however,' says Colonel Napier, in strains of sublime military eloquence, 'they closed on their terrible enemy; and then was seen with what a strength and majesty the British soldier fights. In vain did Soult by voice and gesture animate his Frenchmen; in vain did the hardiest veterans, extricating themselves from the crowded column, sacrifice their lives to gain time and space for the mass to open out on such a fair field; in rain did the mass itself bear up, and, fiercely striving, fire indiscriminately on friends and foes, while the horsemen hovering on the flanks, threatened to charge the advancing line. Nothing could stop that astonishing infantry. No sudden burst of undisciplined valour; no nervous enthusiasm weakened the stability of their order: their flashing eyes were bent on the dark columns in their front; their measured tread shook the ground; their dreadful volleys swept away the head of every formation; their deafening shouts overpowered the dissonant cries that broke from all parts of the tumultuous crowd, as foot by foot, and with a horrid carnage, it was driven by the incessant vigour of the attack to the furthest edge of the hill. In vain did the French reserves, joining with the struggling multitude, endeavour to sustain the fight; their efforts only increased the irremediable confusion, and the mighty mass, at length giving way like a loosened cliff, went headlong down the ascent.'" "The rain flowed after in streams discoloured with blood, and 1,500 unwounded men, the remnant of 6,000 unconquerable British soldiers, stood triumphant on the fatal hill!" 12 13 "Head-quarter ship Marion, off Nankin, Sept. 15, 1842. "My Lord—I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your Lordship's letter of the 30th of April. However mortifying it may be to me to find myself deprived of the appointment to which I had been so graciously nominated, I beg to assure your Lordship that I how without repining to any measure that may be considered beneficial to the interests of my country. To serve that country in the higher walks of a profession which I entered as a child, I came to India, and especially to China, and I trust your Lordship will believe, that while my Sovereign considered my services useful, they were, as they ever shall be, freely, and, I hope, energetically rendered; but when they are no longer required, or when the public exigencies in such an important portion of our foreign possessions as Madras are deemed to clash with my individual advantage, I hope I may say that I am one of the last men in the army who would not readily sacrifice self-interest. My gracious Sovereign's unsolicited nomination of me to the chief command at Madras was received by me with thankfulness; and whenever for the furtherance of Her Majesty's service it became expedient to place another in that situation, whether in a single or conjoint capacity, I should not have wished my private interests to stand in the way of the public good. That I feel rather disappointed I cannot deny; but I am not the less grateful to my Sovereign for Her gracious kindness towards me, or the less sincerely and warmly thankful to your Lordship for the renewed proof of kind consideration which your letter conveys. With the earnest and anxious prayer that the union of the
 14 "H. GOUGH, Lieutenant-General, "Commanding Expeditionary Land Force." l. l. 15 "That the annual sum of 3,000 l.
 SIR R. PEEL  was not prepared to give any general assurances as to advances for the execution of railway works in Ireland. A Board had been constituted, known as the Exchequer Bills Loan Commissioners,
 8
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he did not see any advantage in prolonging this contest. He had not strength to go through with it, and he did not wish to subject others to it. He should therefore propose that the hon. Gentleman should withdraw his Motion, on the understanding that they should not proceed with the Bill that night. He hoped hon. Members who had Motions standing for to-morrow would allow the Bill precedence.
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, I shall, in the first place, notice that part of the speech of the noble Lord, the concluding part, which referred to the position and circumstances of Ireland; and I certainly did little expect, after the information that has been laid upon the Table by Her Majesty's Government, not an unfair selection of facts as the noble Lord states, but the full and entire reports received from the Scarcity Commissioners appointed by Government—I say, Sir, that I did not expect any hon. Gentleman would now rise in this House and deny the allegations contained therein. I know very well that scarcity is not universal in that country. I know that there are parts of that country in which the disease which has generally attacked the potato either does not exist at all, or at least does not exist to that calamitous extent which prevails in other parts; and you may find gentlemen living in the immediate vicinity of those more favoured parts, writing letters with the view of showing that there is, after all, no great rise in the price of these necessary articles of food. You may multiply those letters from particular counties, which, as far as they go, appear to give a contradiction to the facts which we have laid before you. Nevertheless, it is, I say, impossible to doubt the statement that there does exist in that country great scarcity—that there does exist much disease, growing out of that scarcity of food, in many parts to almost an unparalleled extent. The remedy which we are now applying to those evils is the purchase of food in order to provide subsistence to a population who would otherwise be subject to the most frightful privations. Out of what source do those means come? Is there a great fund at the disposal of Government applicable to the purchase of food for the subsistence of the Irish people? No; the source from which these purchases have been made is the taxation of the United Kingdom. The noble Lord says, "Why, there were six hundred tons of potatoes brought out of Ireland for the supply of Liverpool and Bristol." Is it the remedy the noble Lord
 54 55 "I believe that the importation of foreign provisions into Ireland duty free would be no remedy whatever for the present evil. I believe what the people of Ireland want is the money to purchase that food, which I think is abundant; but still I will consent to such a measure for the present." "I do not think that there is any necessity for resorting to extraordinary measures. I think that a resort to extraordinary measures would but have the effect of countenancing the existing delusion, and of keeping up the price of food." 56 57 58 59 s., s. 60 61 62 63 64 65 s. 66 67 68 69 70
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  did not rise to pursue the debate on the Amendment of the noble Lord; he would only say with respect to what had fallen from the hon. Baronet who had just sat down, that it was satisfactory to him to hear so strong a confirmation of the opinion entertained by the Government of the real state of Ireland at the present moment; and he thought the hon. Baronet's statement could not but have its influence on those who doubted what the real state of that country was. He wished merely to say one word respecting the Motion of the noble Lord, to which he should confine himself entirely. He thought the noble Lord could hardly be aware of the effect of leaving out the word "oats" from the clause. The real effect of that Motion would be, that after the 1st of February, 1849, oats, instead of paying a 1 s. s. 135
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  thought it was rather hard that his noble Friend had brought forward his opinion, because his noble Friend, a short time ago, had come and sat by him, and said that he (Lord G. Bentinck) had put a construction on the Bill in which some learned Friends of his differed from him, and that he should be glad to find that he was the better lawyer, and his noble Friend then mentioned his construction of the words; but he (the Attorney General) said that it was a nice question, and that he should not presume to give an opinion upon it. He did not, however, express any doubt, or say anything that could reasonably be brought forward as an opinion on the present occasion. But he must say now, that his right hon. Friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) appeared to him to have stated the matter so clearly, that it did not require the opinion of a lawyer to make it more manifest. It was not ne-
 136
 The CHAIRMAN : The question now before the Committee is, that in the fourth line of the first clause, the word "oats" stand part of the Bill.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  would not say that the clause, if amended in the way proposed, would expressly relieve oats of all duties; but the words of the clause showed a manifest intention to substitute different duties for the duties at present existing on all corn and grain; and, supposing that no different duties were substituted on oats, the effect would virtually be to repeal all former duties on that article, although not in express terms repealed.
 MR. O. GORE  said, that the question before the House was one of so much importance to the commercial interests of the country, that he could not allow it to pass without making a few observations. He considered it to be a measure of greater moment than any that had been brought before the Legislature for the forty years he had had a seat in that House; and he looked upon it as the era from which they might date the decline of this great Empire. The effect would be ruinous to Ireland, would tend to the loss of their Colonies, and prove detrimental to their shipping interests. In this country it was considered good farming to take three crops of oats from newly reclaimed land; but in Ireland they took no less than ten crops from it. If he could prove that this measure would reduce the price of oats, then he thought he should have shown that it would effectually discourage the reclamation of waste lands. His noble Friend the Member for Lynn had already proved this in an admirable manner—such, indeed, as his proofs generally were; but he would submit other arguments; and first, he would quote the testimony of no less a person than the present Colonial Secretary (Mr. Gladstone), who said, in 1842, in the discussion upon the Tariff, that he could procure annually from the Continent 793,000 quarters of oats at 11 s. d. s. s. s. s. 140 "They (meaning the Irish) have no manufactures but one—namely, their agriculture; and the Irish agriculturists must be protected. Ireland must fall, and be a clog on this country, if her agriculture ceased to receive support."
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, it was a strange way of furthering the interests of Ireland to advocate a measure which must infallibly reduce the price of her produce. Nothing was more likely to cause distress there than bringing its grain into competition with that of the foreigner, who could grow it at half the cost. It was said that protection had done nothing for Ireland; but, let it be recollected, that forty years ago Ireland imported corn for her own support. Within the last four years Ireland exported no less than 6,000,000 quarters of oats into this country, and, in the same period, 5,000,000 of cwt. of oatmeal. He could very well understand how Repealers would be anxious for the measure; but he could not conceive how a Minister of the Crown, who had been placed in his high position to preserve the connection between the two countries, could advocate a measure which tended to the dismemberment of Ireland.—Clause agreed to.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  moved that it be omitted.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  was not quite sure that the Chancellor of the Exchequer was right in his construction of the Bill. The Bill was not a Bill to repeal the Statute of the 5th and 6th Victoria, cap. 14—the present Corn Law, and consequently after the passing of this Bill, that statute would remain in force, with the exception of such parts of it as were specifically repealed by this Bill. In the preamble of the Bill there was nothing that went to state that all the existing duties should be repealed. The preamble merely stated that "from and after the passing of the Act in lieu of the duties now payable upon the entry for home consumption, &c., of corn, grain, meal and flour, there shall be levied and paid, &c., on all corn, grain, meal and flour, already or hereafter to be imported, &c., the duties set forth in the schedule of this Act annexed," until the 1st of February, 1849. There was nothing in that to show that the Bill was to repeal the existing duties; but as the point was a doubtful one, he had asked the opinion of the learned Attorney General, which he had understood to be in his favour. But perhaps the learned Gentleman would state what was his opinion as to the proper construction of the Bill. He (Lord G. Bentinck) must say he thought that where several articles were enumerated on which the duty was to be altered as in this Bill, an article which was not enumerated must be held not to be affected by the Bill in which such enumeration occurred.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said: I rise, Sir, to move the omission of the word "oats." Our former discussions have almost entirely turned upon the species of grain with which mainly the people of England are concerned, and they have turned scarcely at all upon that species of grain in which the people of Ireland, Scotland, and Wales, are more particularly interested. Sir, when we come to consider that there are 558,000 occupiers of land in Ireland, almost every one of whom is a grower of oats, we cannot but admit how important it is to Ireland that we should not hastily alter the law which protects their grain in the English market. The annual importation of oats into England from Ireland, in the last and in former years, amounted in value to a sum of money little short of two and a half millions sterling. Now, supposing that the free importation of foreign oats would only lower the price to the extent of 10
 122 l. s. d. s. d. 
 
 In 1841, at Amsterdam 9 s. 0 d. per qr. 
 Hamburgh 8 s. 6 d. per qr. 
 Dantzic 12 s. 0 d. per qr. 
 Riga 11 s. 0 d. per qr. 
 
 In 1842, at Amsterdam 12 s. 6 d. per qr. 
 Hamburgh 8 s. 6 d. per qr. 
 Dantzic 11 s. 6 d. per qr. 
 Riga 10 s. 0 d. per qr. 
 
 In 1843, at Amsterdam 7 s. 0 d. per qr. 
 Hamburgh 11 s. 9 d. per qr. 
 Dantzic 10 s. 0 d. per qr. 
 Riga 6 s. 6 d. per qr. 
 
 In 1844, at Amsterdam 12 s. 9 d. per qr. 
 Hamburgh 10 s. 9 d. per qr. 
 Dantzic 12 s. 0 d. per qr. 
 Riga 6 s. 0 d. per qr. 
 
 In 1845, at Amsterdam 11 s. 9 d. per qr. 
 Hamburgh 11 s. 10 d. per qr. 
 Dantzic 10 s. 6 d. per qr. 
 Riga 10 s. 6 d. per qr. 123 s. d. s. d.; s. d. s.; s.; s.; s. d. s. d. s. d.; s. d., s. d. 124 125 l.; l., 126 l. l. l. 127 128 l. l. l. l. 129 130 s.
 CAPTAIN LAYARD  said, as the noble Lord had turned out the best free trader of all, he should certainly give the noble Lord his support if he went to a division.
 MR. FINCH  conceived that anything which affected the sister country and her prosperity, and the maintenance of the Union between the two countries, was one of the most important subjects that could occupy the attention of the British Senate. It appeared to him that the speech of the hon. Member for Waterford had rather confirmed the arguments of the noble Lord the Member for Lynn, than weakened them. He seemed to think that Ireland's prosperity was involved in doing away with a great portion of the corn agriculture of the country. If he conceived that Her Majesty's Ministers entertained this notion, and were desirous to see Ireland cease to be the granary of the United Kingdom, then he should consider the hon. Member would be a very useful ally to Her Majesty's Government. But it appeared that the view taken of Ireland's prosperity by the hon. Member and Her Majesty's Government singularly differed; for the latter, as well as all true political economists, considered it would be in the highest degree detrimental, not only to this, but also to the
 138 l. l. l., l. l. l. 139 l., l., l.; l.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  observed, that the people of Ireland would neither thank the noble Lord for the proposition he had made, nor for the manner in which he had made it. The people of Ireland asked themselves the question, what had they gained by protection? and that was the question which every friend and benevolent landlord in Ireland ought to ask himself. He must confess that he was at first greatly prejudiced against the measure of Her Majesty's Ministers, and had only given it his support because he put more faith in the judgment of those political friends whom he was accustomed to act with, than in his own, in such matters; but having weighed the subject maturely, he had now to acknowledge himself, from conviction, a warm and strong supporter of the Government measures. He had had extreme prejudices on the subject, for all he possessed depended on land—all his ties, early education, knowledge, and experience were with and for the land; but he had been led to see the necessity of such a measure as that introduced by Her Majesty's Ministers; and his own tenants, some of them holders of 200 and
 131 s. 132 l. l. l. 133 d., d. d. 134
 MR. J. S. STUART  was not quite sure that he understood the position of the present question. He understood that the first clause, which granted that up to the 1st of February, 1849, the duties on corn aud grain should be those specified in the schedule, had received the sanction of the Committee.
 MR. BORTHWICK  apprehended, that if after the words "corn and grain," in the preamble of the Act, the words "excepting oats" had been inserted, the Motion of his noble Friend would have had the effect without question of retaining the existing duty on oats. The question, then,
 137
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY  was not present at the last discussion on this subject, and wished, therefore, to say a few words on the present occasion. He admired the skill and talent of the hon. Member for Newcastle, but he would not enter into the discussion in that temper which had been noticed by the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) as characterizing the hon. Member's observations. Whatever might be the accusations against the Jesuits, he believed that they were the most ill-used and injured men on the face of the earth. They were actuated by motives for the good of religion and the good of mankind. There was hardly a Christian charity for which religious bodies were not organized in the Roman Catholic religion, for the purpose of exercising it to the utmost practical extent. Let them go into the hospitals, and they would see the Sisters of Charity, those angels upon earth.
 151
 LORD J. RUSSELL : If the two Bills, that in the House of Lords and the one now before the House of Commons, contemplated in their general scope the same end, I think the appeal made to the hon. and learned Member would be not only reasonable but conclusive; but it appears that the measure of the hon. and learned Gentleman may be described as consisting of two parts. One of these has reference to obsolete penalties against Roman Catholics, which might be revived for a vexatious purpose, and these the Government propose to abolish not only as regards Roman Catholics but also as regards Protestant Dissenters, and have brought a Bill into the House of Lords for that purpose. Now, if the Bill of the hon. and learned Gentleman went no further than that, I think that he would be disposed to wait for that other Bill, and see how far it effects the same object as he has in view. But there is another class of cases, with respect to which the Criminal Law Commissioners offer no opinion. The Commissioners reported only on what properly came under their consideration, and, consequently, they found out what were the ancient and obsolete statutes affecting Roman Catholics and Protestant Dissenters; and proposed a mode by which the law should be altered, and such obsolete restrictions abolished. But when they came to other penalties, which are not forgotten or obsolete, but which are living penalties, enacted in 1829, these Commissioners said, what it was incumbent
 153
 MR. O'CONNELL  felt that he had been personally assailed by the hon. Member for Newcastle, whose memory was not very accurate; though he was, no doubt, not disposed to state what he knew to be untrue. That hon. Member had boasted of what he deemed the triumph of the hon. Member for Oxford over him on the subject of Galileo. Now, having spoken upon that subject without the least premeditation, he had mistaken the name of the Pope who was at the expense of publishing an account of the system of Copernicus. That was the extent of his error; but the Court of Rome was never opposed to the doctrine of the motion of the globe. The real difference between him and hon. Members opposite was, that he had asserted that Galileo, instead of being imprisoned for years, as had been repeatedly asserted, and was generally believed in England, was only in gaol for parts of three days. That statement he now repeated, and in the main point he was perfectly right, though he had been inaccurate as to the name of a Pope. However, this was a subject of little consequence; he turned to one of moment—the subject of the Jesuits. The hon. Member for Newcastle (Mr. Colquhoun) had suggested that we should imitate the example of France in religious matters. He quoted the French, and a French statesman, as an authority, and would have us follow that example. There was some novelty in recommending the example of France on matters of religion; it might not be the less desirable, though it was usually thought so. The hon. Member had referred to M. Thiers, and had called him a great statesman. He could not quite agree in that description of M. Thiers. Had he not endeavoured to stimulate the anti-Anglican feeling in France, in order to raise himself to power? Could he be a good man or a great statesman who for his own purposes condescended to minister to the bad prejudices of his fellow countrymen? The hon. Member was utterly wrong as to the Jesuits; he had before challenged the hon. Member to bring proof
 155
 LORD J. RUSSELL  saw no difficulty in the hon. and learned Gentleman insisting upon the Motion that the Bill be sent into Committee; nor did he see any substantial difficulty in the course which the right hon. Gentleman had proposed, that in the event of the Amendment of the hon. Member for Newcastle being negatived, and the House going into Committee, the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Watson) should withdraw the first part of the Bill, including all the clauses down to those which had reference to the Statute of 1829, and retaining the last part of the Bill. That was a course which he considered highly satisfactory under the circumstances; and he therefore thought the hon. and learned Gentleman would do well to adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. WATSON'S  wish was, to take the opinion of the House on the question before them. Suppose the Amendment of the hon. Member for Newcastle was lost, and the House went into Committee, then he meant to move that the clauses to which the right hon. Gentleman referred should be struck out. Then he would propose that other clauses, of which he had given notice, should, when printed, be introduced into the Bill, and they could report progress, and go again into Committee on a future day. As to the principle of the Bill, that had already been settled on the second reading. In reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Newcastle, he would just remark that they tolerated Roman Catholics by law in this country; that Roman Catholics looked to the Pope as the supreme head of their church; and all he asked was, that they should not be liable to punishment for holding opinions which were tolerated by law—in short, all he asked was, that the spirit of the Act of 1829 should be carried out. As to those animals called bulls, he believed they were exceedingly innocent things; but, should they contain treason, surely the law was strong enough to put them down. There was no law in Scotland or Ireland to prevent bulls going into those countries. That was perhaps the reason why bulls were so numerous in the latter country. As to the regular clergy, he trusted the House would deliberately
 159
 LORD J. RUSSELL  must say, that he did not think the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Recorder) acted fairly to his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Watson). The mode of proceeding suggested by his hon. and learned Friend would not prevent the fullest discussion hereafter. It was not at all usual to oppose a Motion such as that proposed. He must say that he did not think the course taken by the hon. and learned Recorder handsome or courteous to his hon. and learned Friend, or just to the House.
 MR. LAW , in reply to the noble Lord, wished again to say that his object was to get rid of the Bill altogether. He wished to be understood as being no party to the arrangement proposed by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government. He must dissent from any such arrangement. It was proposed that his hon. and learned Friend should have an opportunity of dividing his Bill, having it reprinted, and bringing it forward in another shape. He was opposed to that for these reasons. The Bill was not brought forward on the responsibility of the Government. There was a measure of similar character on its way to this House, which was sanctioned by the Government; and besides he was at a loss to divine what might be the conduct of Government as regarded either Bill, which would work on with a majority obtained from the other side of the House. He had no confidence whatever in the mode in which this measure was dealt with, nor any trust in the majority which would carry it. He protested against this line of proceeding. He had the greatest personal regard for the hon. and learned Mover, and in any matter of a merely personal character, would be most happy to oblige him; but he must not forget that he had a public duty to perform, and must resist to the uttermost any measure which had a pernicious tendency, even though such measure might be encouraged by the head of the Government. He would neither assist in
 164
 MR. LAW  moved as an Amendment, that the clause he omitted. His object was to get rid of the Bill altogether. He apprehended his Amendment was a perfectly legitimate one.
 MR. LAW : After what has fallen from the right hon. Baronet, I hope I may be permitted to say, that I think I have a right to complain of the manner in which he has adverted to the discharge of my official duties in another place. I do not think there is any reason or justice in the suggestion, that these duties are not discharged with the temper and attention due to them. It is not that I complain of the opinions the right hon. Baronet may personally entertain, but when he is talking of courtesy, he has no right to make such un-courteous and uncalled-for observations. If I had understood that the effect of my assenting to the Motion would give no advantage to the other side, and had no tendency to promote the Bill, I should not have opposed it; but I thought otherwise.
 MR. LAW  withdrew his Motion.
 MR. LAW  moved the addition of a Clause to give to Criminal Courts power to
 167
 MR. LAW  thought the proposal of the right hon. Baronet would lead the House into difficulties. They had a Bill before them on the responsibility of an individual Member, and not on the responsibility of the Government. Not only was it not brought forward on the responsibility of the Government, but from one-half of it the Members of Her Majesty's Government dissented. Now, they all understood that a more comprehensive measure had been introduced into another place, which
 158
 MR. LAW  explained, that the clause was merely an extension of the powers contained in sec. 63, chap. 74, of the Act of Geo. IV. He knew of several instances of aggravated assault, which had been very inadequately punished, in consequence of the provisions contained in the 7th Geo. IV. not meeting the case. By the present law, in case of conspiracy and of assault, the parties who brought the criminal to justice were not allowed the expenses of the prosecution. That had been the subject of animadversion day after day for years, and it had not yet been remedied. The object of his clause was, to give the Criminal Courts the power of awarding reasonable costs in all cases prosecuted or tried before them.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that the hon. Member for Newcastle had stated that he did not wish to impose any penalties on the profession of religion. The supremacy of the Pope either was or was not a doctrine of the Roman Catholic religion. If it were not, then he called upon his hon. Friend to allow this Bill to pass; and if it were, then he called upon him to go with them and enforce the penalties. The fact was, those who professed to be the most sincere friends of civil and religious liberty, very often turned out to be the most bitter of its foes.
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  did not rise to make any observations on the Order of Jesuits, but to notice some expressions that had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman near him, the Member for Cork. That hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. O'Connell) had denied to M. Thiers the character of a statesman, and even of a good man, because he had availed himself of the anti-Anglican prejudices of his countrymen to excite feelings of hostility between this country and his own. He trusted he might, without offence, tell the hon. and learned Gentleman that he hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would not forget the accusation he had so justly made against M. Thiers; but that the words he had used would at all times and under all circumstances be indelibly engraven on the memory of the hon. and learned Gentleman himself.
 MR. B. ESCOTT  said, it seemed to be thought that an unfair advantage had been taken on the second reading of the measure; but this assertion was wholly without foundation. He considered it quite useless for the House to discuss now the principle of the Bill, which had been already settled on the second reading. A full opportunity would be given on the third reading for the most ample discussion of the whole question.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  denied that the Jesuits had any right to protection or privileges as a religious Order; they resisted ecclesiastical authority. They were a secret society, evading the provisions of the Relief Act, and entitled to no favour; nor ought the Government to rescind for them the enactments introduced by the present Ministers into that Act. Let no feelings of mistaken benevolence lead the House to part with the safeguard at present on the Statute-book.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  thought it would have been more satisfactory if they had had the Government measure before the House previous to the consideration of the one now before them. He was sure, however,
 165 pro formâ,
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the right hon. Baronet had quite misunderstood him. He had never accused him of giving precedence to this Bill over any other measure before the House; his remarks applied entirely to the other measure, which common report informed them was likely to reach them from another place.
 MR. SPEAKER : If the Bill is to be divided into two parts in Committee, there must be an instruction to that effect; and this cannot be moved unless the hon. Member for Newcastle (Mr. Colquhoun) withdraw his Amendment.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  was very suspicious of the conduct of the right hon. Baronet, which he thought it the duty of those hon. Members who were sincerely attached to the Constitution to watch with a close and jealous eye. He had entertained suspicions of the right hon. Baronet ever since 1829. He thought it very questionable whether or no the right hon. Baronet was a Protestant or a Roman Catholic. He should be disposed to think the right hon. Baronet was a Roman Catholic. He held a petition in his hand from the inhabitants of Lincoln city, against the Bill now under consideration; and the reason it was not more numerously signed was, because they felt disgusted at the line of conduct pursued by Sir R. Peel on the question of the Maynooth Grant; for when no less than 10,253 petitions, containing 1,288,742 signatures, were presented against that grant, the right hon. Baronet said, the greater was the number of petititions against the grant, the more resolved he was to interfere. He disclaimed any uncharitable or unkind feeling towards his Roman Catholic fellow subjects; but felt it his duty to oppose the Minister of a Protestant Queen, when he introduced measures which he considered would be subversive of the principles upon which the Church and Constitution of this country
 163
 MR. FINCH  wished to correct a mistake into which the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Cork had fallen, in saying that his hon. Friend (Mr. Colquhoun) wished them to follow the example of France in reference to religious matters. His hon. Friend had not done so, as he had merely quoted the case of France in support of a matter of fact. In reference to the Jesuits, he did not wish to make an observation that would have the effect of throwing odium upon them, as he admitted that they might often have been calumniated; but if they had, he must still bear in mind that on account of their dangerous tenets they had been expelled from almost every State in
 156
 MR. COLQUHOUN  declined to withdraw it.
 MR. COLQUHOUN  understood the proposal of the hon. and learned Gentleman, as recommended by the right hon. Baronet, to be to leave out in Committee all the first part of the Bill on which there was an agreement between them, and to retain that part, relating to the Act of 1829, on which they differed. Was it, then, to be understood that the right hon. Baronet, and those who agreed with him, were ready to vote for the Bill as thus altered?
 MR. COLQUHOUN  expressed his regret that he and those who concurred in his view of the measure had not the benefit of those lights of the legal profession whose opinions would be so valuable on a question of this kind. It would have been highly desirable to have the opinion of men learned in the law on a measure involving so serious a change as that proposed by this Bill. This change not only effected a great alteration in the position of the Roman Catholics, but it went on to extend that alteration in the Constitution, and to the Act of Settlement. Before he proceeded to touch on those points of the Bill in which he differed from the hon. Member who had charge of it, he would say a few words on those points on which they agreed; and here let him make an offer to the hon. Member who had brought in this Bill, and he did so in all fairness and candour. Let the hon. Member take away every pain or penalty which attached to a man on account of his faith. Let him remove the penalty which obliged a Roman Catholic to attend the Protestant church, or which did not allow any one to keep a school unless he were a Protestant. These were enactments which ought not to be allowed to remain on our Statute-book for a single day; but while he, and those who
 142 143 144 145 146 Wandering Jew? arrêt 147 148 onus
 MR. P. HOWARD  begged to call the attention of the hon. Member who declared that the Jesuits had been banished out of every country in Europe, to the fact that the wisest of European monarchs, Frederick the Great, had given them a refuge in Prussia. As the preservers and restorers of literature, the merits of that Order were recognized throughout the world; and he was sure the liberal people of this country would offer no opposition to the repeal of the stringent clauses against them in the Bill of George IV.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  observed, that before any hon. Member talked of the Jesuits as if they were here secretly, and did not avow themselves, he should remember that for a great many years the larger part of the Roman Catholic youth of this country had been intrusted to them to be educated; and no one acquainted with that youth could deny that they were honour-
 157
 MR. SPOONER  rose amidst cries of "Divide," and expressed his disapproval of the Bill, and contended that it was not competent for the House in that stage to make the proposed division of the Bill. He told the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) that in giving his assent to the measure, he would be violating the pledge he had given at the passing of the Bill of 1829.
 MR. ESTCOURT  would only detain the House a few minutes. The hon. Member who had charge of the Bill had stated, that he intended to expunge all the clauses down to that which related to the Statute of George IV. He thought there was an improper secrecy observed with regard to the Bill; for when he had, on a previous occasion, made some observations with respect to this particular Bill, they were not received with much favour; but a different opinion now appeared to prevail. This only he would say, that if the clauses of the Act of 1829 were repealed, it would be a violation of the contract which was entered into in 1829. The Bill was, in fact, a Bill for an Amendment of the Act of 1829; and if it had been introduced with that avowed object, his right hon. Friend below him (Sir R. Peel) would have met it with his unquestionable opposition. He would suggest that the hon. Member (Mr. Watson) should avail himself of the proposition of the Secretary of State for the Home Department. By doing so, that hon. Member would undoubtedly lose an advantage which he had obtained, unfairly obtained; but he did not doubt, that from the respectability of that Gentleman, he would readily give it up, and not shuffle a measure like this through the House.
 MR. WATSON  was sorry that he could not accede to the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman. This Bill was not a new one. He had originally given notice of it in 1843, and in 1844 it was brought into the House of Lords by Lord Beaumont. It passed the Committee of the House of Lords, where it was altered in several clauses for the purpose of making it a Bill which no bishop on the bench could object to. Last year he again introduced a Bill on the subject; but it was thrown out at the end of the Session, without any opinion being expressed by the Government, either favourable or unfavourable, with respect to it. The Bill now before the House had been introduced this Session; and there had also been introduced into the House of Lords another Bill, drawn by Sir E. Ryan, the late Chief Justice of India. His Bill being fixed to come on in the House of Commons that day, a movement took place in another place last Thursday, and a discussion was had on the Bill there. That Bill, however, was essentially different from his, and there were clauses in his Bill on which the opinion of that House must be taken.
 MR. WATSON  did not see any particular objection to take the course suggested. The question he wished to discuss with the Government was, whether those penal enactments of the Act of 1829 which had been referred to were to remain the law for ever, however contrary they might be to the feelings of the country at large. On that question he must take the sense of the House. He hoped he might be allowed to
 154
 MR. WATSON  said, he should propose to divide the Bill, and to strike out the first three clauses; then that the Chairman report progress; and that the Bill be recommitted on Wednesday fortnight.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that the clause proposed by his hon. Friend was a very important one. He looked with very great jealousy to any extension of the powers to the Criminal Courts in the manner proposed by the clause. It required great consideration before they came to any decision on so important a change as the clause contemplated. He could not say he was quite prepared to oppose the clause until he had heard the reasons of his hon. Friend.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  admitted that the present Bill might be divided into two parts, and suggested, as it would be inconvenient to discuss now that part of the Bill which was identical with the Government measure, that the hon. and learned Gentleman should divide his Bill into two, and raise the discussion on the latter part, which repealed certain provisions of the Emancipation Act of 1829. To that repeal he was opposed; but, as the noble Lord used the term "modify," as well as "repeal," he would not, without seeing what those modifications were, pledge himself absolutely against them.
 SIR J. GRAHAM : I wish to make an appeal to the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Watson) who has charge of this Bill. That hon. Gentleman was not present when the Bill was read a second time, and when I had the honour of supporting the principle of the measure. I am decidedly favourable to the removal from the Statute-book of pains and penalties affecting our Roman Catholic fellow subjects on account of their religious opinions; and I therefore supported the second reading of the Bill without hesitation. I wish to call the attention of the hon. and learned Member for Kinsale (Mr. Watson), and of the House, to the present position of affairs with respect to a measure of this description. At the close of the last Session of Parliament, Her Majesty's Government undertook to
 149 150
 SIR J. GRAHAM  should feel greatly obliged if his hon. Friend would withdraw his clause for the present, and propose it again on the bringing up of the Report. This would give him time to consider the matter, and as it was a very important subject, the clause should not at this moment be pressed.
 SIR R. PEEL : I am sorry that the hon. and learned Gentleman does not see fit to accede to the reasonable and just appeal made to him by my right hon. Friend. When the Executive Government, at the express wish of the House of Commons, has undertaken to legislate on this subject, and has actually produced the result of their deliberations in the shape of a Bill, which has been read a second time in the House of Lords, touching on many of the subjects included in this Bill, it is contrary to all usage for an individual Member of Parliament to insist on proceeding with a Bill like the present in the House of Commons, before the Bill introduced by the Government comes to be discussed in this House. A course like this places the Government in an unusual situation. Various suggestions having been made for the amendment of the Bill in the House of Lords, the hon. and learned Member requires that while those Amendments are under consideration, we should in this House proceed to express our opinion on the clauses of his Bill, and thus enter into a premature discussion of the subject. In any enactment for the purpose of removing from the Statute-book obsolete Acts, which may be put in force to gratify individual pique or revenge, I cordially agree; and I gave a proof of my readiness to admit that principle by recording my vote in favour of the removal of certain penalties injuriously affecting our Roman Catholic fellow subjects in a former Session of Parliament. I took charge of a Bill for that purpose; but when I did so, the hon. Member for Lambeth observed, that this was partial legislation, because there were many obsolete statutes affecting Protestant Dissenters also; and the hon. Member observed that we were going to relieve the Roman Catholics and leave the law as respected Protestant Dissenters untouched. It was suggested then, that it would be better to consider generally the law with respect to those who differ from the Church of England, and to legislate in a comprehensive spirit, providing for all classes, Roman Catholics and Protestant
 152
 SIR R. PEEL : I must say that those who require an unruffled temper from me, should set me an example by avoiding imputations which really rest upon no other foundation than a total ignorance of what are the forms of the House. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Newdegate) gets up and coolly accuses me of giving precedence to this over other important measures before this House. [Mr. NEWDEGATE: Not before this House.] I give no precedence whatever to the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Watson). I don't give him a Government day to bring it forward; it will not take precedence of any measure; and the hon. Member will be in no better situation in regard to its discussion than he would have been if he had brought it forward in its original shape. He will have to take some Wednesday for discussion, and so far from any advantage being gained to the measure by the proposal now before the House, it will be the reverse. The hon. Gentleman also says that I have consented to the division of this Bill. I have no more consented to it than any other Member of the House. There was no instruction to the Committee to divide the Bill. The House went into Committee, and a Motion was made that the whole of the first part
 166
 SIR R. PEEL : I hope the hon. and learned Gentleman in the performance of his official duties manifests more temperance and acuteness than he has done in the House of Commons to-day. There really must be gross misapprehension of the course which the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite intends to pursue; for the hon. and learned Member can gain no advantage whatever by that course. He is merely asking us to do that which it would be most unjust and most unusual to refuse. He merely seeks to render this Bill more intelligible, by having it reprinted in a divided form. The Bill has been already divided; a portion of it has been withdrawn by the consent of the House; all the first part of the Bill is gone—it is now, I repeat, actually divided. This is the second Bill. I must say, that the opposition to the Motion is most unusual, and I must say, that it is carrying political hostility too far to assert, that because the Government does not oppose a request from which, as far as my knowledge goes, the House has never dissented, that therefore they are to be charged with having entered into a compact with hon. Gentlemen opposite.
 SIR R. PEEL  remarked, that as the Amendment was not withdrawn, he must vote for the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Watson), in order that he might have an opportunity of expressing his opinions when the Bill should be divided in Committee on that part which would repeal portions of the Act of 1829; but, in giving that vote, he reserved to himself the power of dealing with this portion of the Bill as he should think best. The advisable course seemed to be, to go into Committee  pro formâ,
 SIR R. PEEL  must say he had never heard a greater perversion of his meaning. He really could not envy Gentlemen who had such suspicions respecting compacts he had entered into. He might take that opportunity, however, of stating that he could not concur in any proposition tending to the repeal of the Act of 1829. Was the hon. Gentleman aware how the case stood? If the hon. and learned Gentleman had moved to omit the first part of the Bill, the hon. Member (Mr. Spooner) must have agreed with him. What, then, would have remained but a Bill to repeal some of the provisions of the Act of 1829? Now, he was not prepared to give any opinion in favour of that proposal, as he had already stated; nor did his suggestion, that the hon. and learned Gentleman should divide the Bill, lead to any such inference; all he wished was, that the House might know clearly what they had to deal with, so that the opinion of the House might be fairly taken on the latter Bill.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, his hon. and learned Friend had an advantage over him on this occasion, as he was in the position of an assailant. He could not hope to make what he had to say to the House interesting, because the details were dry and technical; and in order to do the subject justice, he was compelled to make a considerable demand on the time and attention of the House. His hon. and learned Friend had come forward with a Motion made in 1844, and then disposed of. He had now added other matter, and he proposed that a Committee of Inquiry should be instituted, making this an introduction to his Motion, in order to have an excuse for trespassing on the House with the same materials he was provided with before, for the purpose of procuring that Committee which the House refused in 1844. The object of his hon. and learned Friend was to repeal a Statute deliberately passed, and to call on the House to commit
 185 186 Nisi Prius, l., l., l., l. 187 "In my two former letters I have distinctly put the question to you, whether by your letter to Mr. Follett you intended to say, that I had approved of the clauses, or only that you had explained them to me. To this question I have not received any answer. It is certain that the impression made by the expression used by you on the minds of those to whom your letter was communicated, and by them created in the House, was, that you intended to allege I had approved of the clauses; but this is so inconsistent with the fact, and with what you say in your last letter, that I am unwilling to suppose, and to act upon the supposition, that such was your intention, without once more calling your attention to it." 188 189 l. 190 l. l. 191 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., 192 l.
 MR. R. YORKE , being of opinion that the matter now under discussion was one well worthy of the most serious consideration of the Legislature, would most cheerfully support the Motion of the hon. Member for Kinsale. The Act of 1842 had
 211
 MR. ESCOTT  would preface the few remarks he had to make by saying, that he had listened to the debate with the greatest possible satisfaction, for this reason—a great abuse must now be reformed. First of all, he congratulated his hon. and learned Friend opposite (Mr. Watson) at having achieved that night one of the greatest victories that ever fell to the lot of a Member of Parliament to achieve, by obtaining from the Secretary of State and the House of Commons a full and free admission that with respect to the abominable practice that now existed, of extortion in the courts of justice, the House would not resist the Motion for a Committee, with full powers to enter into a full and satisfactory inquiry; which inquiry would lead to a full and satisfactory remedy for this long neglected grievance. This question was of such immense public importance, that he wished nothing of a personal nature should be in any way mixed up with it. But let not his hon. Friend suppose that if he felt the Lord Chancellor of England—however much he might respect his character and acquirements, and his great labours, for the benefit of the country—had been guilty of anything like a dereliction of duty on the present occasion, he should object to introducing his conduct into the inquiry. He feared that by mixing up an individual instance with a general inquiry, they would rather mar than promote the great object they had in view. He had listened to the speech of the Attorney General, and, totally and entirely as he differed with most of the arguments and principles which he advanced, there was one thing he thought he had proved, namely, that the Lord Chancellor only acted under the letter of the Statute Law. They could not enter into inquiry how that Act of Parliament had passed through the two Houses; and if the
 209 210
 MR. C. BULLER  regretted that a question of so much importance should have been mixed up with an inquiry into a past Act, which every body on both sides of the House agreed was irremediable. He regretted it, because it not only connected the question with matters of a personal nature affecting certain parties, but because it came forward in the shape of an attack upon the Government, and upon the Member of the Government who was officially responsible for the Bill. He was not called upon to defend Lord Lyndhurst; although on any proper occasion he should be perfectly willing to discuss his conduct either as a Judge or a Minister; but what he (Mr. C. Buller) wished to impress upon the House was, that in this matter, whatever might be Lord Lyndhurst's official responsibility, it was not with the real act of the noble and learned Lord the House had to deal. In this case, Lord Lyndhurst came into office at the time these changes were contemplated, and he did that which any wise and honest Minister would have done to put law reform upon the best footing, and his conduct placed him beyond the possibility of suspicion. Lord Lyndhurst found a commission in existence, composed of gentlemen, all most interested in the subject of law reform, who had done more for it than all the Members of that House put together, and who had shown the greatest earnestness and zeal in that cause; and he referred the matter entirely to them, using his official power merely to give effect to their decision. The names of those persons had been mentioned, and it was obvious that there was no party feeling in the appointment of that commission. There was Lord Langdale, who was
 201 202 l. 203 "On the 20th March, 1820, I entered into a contract with the Committee of the estate of John Gregory Shaddick, a clerk in court (but then recently found a lunatic), in respect of his business, and which contract I carried into effect, on the decease of the said John Gregory Shaddick (which took place on the 10th of February, 1823), with his sister and administratrix, and with the trustees of that lady's marriage settlement." 204 l. l. l. 205 206 l. 207 l. l. 208
 DR. BOWRING  begged to know if the right hon. Baronet would extend the field of the Commissioners so far as to include the Isle of Man?
 MR. ROEBUCK  begged to ask a question of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, with regard to a subject that had before engrossed the attention of the House—the laws and the administration of justice in the Channel Islands. The right hon. Baronet had announced the intention of the Government to issue a commission to inquire into those matters, and he therefore wished to know if such commission had been issued, and if so, whether the right hon. Gentleman would have any objection to lay the Report upon the Table of the House.
 MR. HUME  would admit that he had approved of the principle of this Act; but in the details, as they were now explained, he could not have concurred, because when the Bill was before the House they were not developed. The question was, whether the power given under the Act had been well and discreetly exercised by the Lord Chancellor, It might have been well exercised; but, he must say, he had never known an instance in which the exercise of the discretion of an individual had been so severely araigned as that of the Lord Chancellor in this matter. A bad precedent taken from Ireland was the only precedent the Attorney General had to rely on. The opinion of the public was so firmly fixed that the case now before the House was the job of jobs, and was such a perfect waste of public money, that nothing would satisfy them short of an inquiry. Besides, as doubts existed about the facts of the case, the best way to clear them up was the appointment of a Committee. The hon. and learned Gentleman (the Attorney General) seemed to think that the only object of the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Watson) was to put an end to the compensation that had been awarded to those individuals. He (Mr. Hume) was afraid that the Bill having passed, the compensation was secured to these individuals beyond the reach of the House; but there were other objects that could be gained by the inquiry which was sought. It would be some satisfaction to know whether the public
 193
 MR. WATSON  rose to propose the Motion of which he had given notice—
 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the nature and extent of the taxation of Suitors by the collection of fees in the Courts of Law and Equity, and the application of such fees, and the compensations paid to retired officers of
 177 178 l. l. l. l. l. l., l.; l. l. 179 l.; l. l. l. l.; l.; l.; l. l. 180 l. l. l. 181 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 182 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 183 184 d. Nulli vendemus et nulli negabimus
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, as the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite had appealed to him in so very pointed a manner, he felt bound to say a few words, although he did not propose to follow the hon. and learned Gentleman through his very long and able special pleading. He must, however, be permitted to say that he never heard a speech which answered fewer of the arguments of the hon. Member who had brought forward this Motion. The hon. and learned Member (the Attorney General) was particularly desirous to join issue with him, on the question of awarding fair and just compensation to these individuals. Now, he would agree with the hon. and learned Gentleman on the principle of giving either of these individuals, or any others, such a fair and just compensation as they were entitled to it by the loss of office through the enactments of Parliament; but the real question at issue was, whether these persons were clearly entitled to the amount of compensation that had been granted them? That was what the hon. and learned Attorney General had failed to establish. The hon. Member for Kinsale had distinctly stated that this compensation had been granted upon a return of fees made by these officers: some of those fees were legal, and others he understood were illegal; if, therefore, they were illegal, they were fraudulent and dishonest. Now, whether the Lord Chancellor had given compensation to these parties founded upon a return in which illegal fees were included, was the question into which the hon. and learned Member for Kinsale was desirous of inquiring. This was a question which the public demanded should be inquired into, and which the House ought not to shrink from. This, he might say, was a subject which had been canvassed more by the public than almost any job of the many jobs which had taken place within the walls of the House. There was another point to which he would allude—it was this: that the Lord Chancellor had been the party appointed to make arrangements with
 194 l. 195 l.
 MR. F. T. BARING  congratulated the hon. and learned Gentleman who had made this Motion on his having elicited from the right hon. Baronet a declaration that he had no objection to a general inquiry on the subject of fees. As to what the right hon. Gentleman had said with respect to the Lord Chancellor, he begged to disclaim all intention of casting censure on that noble and learned Lord, if he voted for this Motion. He believed that any causes of complaint that had arisen were quite as much owing to the Act itself as to the administration of it. He also entirely agreed with the right hon. Baronet as to the justice of compensation. If we allowed abuses to grow up, it was but right that we should pay for them; and we had no right to effect public reforms at the expense of private individuals. But it was not surprising that the public mind should be aroused, when they found what was tantamount to a million sterling awarded in the shape of compensation to a few individuals. It should not be forgotten that the Act in question passed in a very hurried manner. It was in that House only one week altogether. It might be generally supposed, too, that the Bill received full consideration in the House of Lords; but such, he understood, was not the case. It was stated, on good authority, that the compensation clauses, as printed in that House, referred the settlement of the amount of compensation to the Treasury, and not to the Lord
 199
 SIR J. GRAHAM  thought he had stated, that after the Act was passed, and before compensation was awarded, returns were called for as to the emoluments of the officers; that those returns were submitted to the consideration of Vice Chancellor Wigram and Mr. Pemberton Leigh; and that, after they were so submitted, the compensation was fixed at the lowest amount which could be given under the Act. What he wished to explain, however, was, that he had reason to believe the compensation clauses were printed for the use of the House of Lords, though, consistently with the privileges of this House, they could not be discussed by their Lordships; and in those compensa-
 200
 SIR J. GRAHAM  rose and said, he was unwilling to trespass upon the attention of the House upon a measure of that kind, which was more especially confined to matters of a legal or technical nature; but after the speeches that had been made by the hon. Members opposite, and their determination to press the Motion to a division, it was necessary for him to trespass upon their patience for a short time. He would begin by saying, that if the Motion had been confined to the introductory part of the question before the House, namely, for an inquiry into the nature and extent of the taxation of suitors, by the collection of fees in the courts of law and equity, he would have had no objection to the Motion, because he considered that an inquiry of that nature might be attended with beneficial results. But, after the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman who proposed the Motion, as well as that of the hon. Member for Montrose, he felt that he could not consent to the inquiry. The hon. Member for Montrose had called the transaction in reference to which the inquiry was moved for, "the job of jobs;" and then went on to say, that the compensation that had been given to the several persons mentioned in the Motion was now irrevocable; it was admitted, therefore, that his object was to inculpate the conduct of the Lord Chancellor, who he appeared to think was a party to the perpetration of the "job of jobs." He knew that the entire conduct
 196 197 l. l., l. l., l. 198
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  was not prepared to include the Isle of Man.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  replied that he had in the course of his duty advised Her Majesty to issue such a commission. Two Commissioners had been accordingly appointed, and he should have no objection whatsoever to lay upon the Table of the House the letters received from them.
 SIR J. HANMER  said, that as it had been intimated that Her Majesty's Government had no objection to grant an inquiry, he was anxious to learn from the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State, whether it were the intention of the Government to take this matter seriously in hand, and to bring forward, at a future period, a substantive measure respecting it; or whether they would merely trust to the chapter of accidents, and, resting content with the appointment of a Committee, take no further stop until some Member might again call attention to it?
 MR. ROMILLY  was anxious that the Motion should be modified in such a manner, as to comprise an inquiry into the mode in which the various officers in the Court of Chancery collected their fees. He very much feared that the present system was a very irresponsible one, and that there was no species of check or means of ascertaining the extent of fees actually collected, and the precise amount that was paid over to the fee fee fund. Information on this point, however, was most desirable. He would support the present Motion, but wished to have it expressly understood, that he did not support it in the hope or the desire of procuring a repeal of the Act of Parliament under which compensation was awarded to the present officers. He thought that nothing could be more impolitic or unjust than that at the expiration of five years, during which the present system had existed, and after Government enjoyed the advantages which accrued from the circumstance of inducing men to give their services on the understanding that compensation would be given—nothing, he repeated, could be more unjust than that after all this, an inquiry should be instituted with a view to taking away the compensation which had been deliberately given. At the same time, however, he was strongly of opinion that the compensation awarded was excessive, and the reason why he would support the Motion was, that he thought it was highly desirable that a better state of things should be established prospectively, and that the evil should be avoided of giving a similar scale of compensation on future occasions. The fact was, that before the passing of the Act of 1842 the officers concealed, for a series of years, the actual amount of fees received, under the idea that the Chancellor might have reduced them had he known of it; and thus the House was misled, and a higher rate of compensation was given than circumstances should have warranted. His reason for supporting the Motion was, that he was desirous to obviate the recurrence of similar evils for the future.
 SIR R. PEEL  had no hesitation in giving an assurance to his hon. Friend that it was the wish of the Government that there should be a full and efficient inquiry as to the mode in which the officers of the courts of justice were paid by fees, for the purpose of ascertaining the facts of the case, and for the purpose of establishing effectual checks against abuse for the future. The providing against future abuses was the matter in which the House was chiefly concerned. When he filled the office of Secretary for the Home Department, he felt the difficulty of dealing with the compensations to the holders of judicial and other offices which it was deemed expedient to abolish. From the first hour of his entering upon that office, and even when he was Secretary for Ireland, he felt impressed with the importance of this subject, and that it was wise to get rid of fees by compensating the holders of office on abolishing them; but still there were great difficulties on the subject. He felt during the whole course of his experience that it was impossible to effect any important reform as regarded such offices, unless they acted liberally towards those who had vested rights in them. He found that they could not make any progress without doing so. It often happened that from the persons holding these offices they obtained the most important information respecting them, which they never would have acquired if these parties were impressed with the belief that the Government would not act liberally towards them if the offices were abolished. Government, therefore, had always shown an anxiety to act liberally when they proceeded to remove such abuses. The principle of giving to officers of courts of justice and to the holders of other vested offices such enormous amounts of fees as they would not for a moment think of giving to the highest officers of the State—which they would not give to
 213 214 . l. l.; l., 215 216
 SIR C. BURRBLL  said, that as he had, by severe indisposition, been prevented from expressing his opinion on the Corn Law Bill in its earlier stages, he trusted the House would bear with him whilst he briefly stated his objections to it, and his reasons for moving that the Report be taken into further consideration that day six months. He opposed the measure, because he believed its adoption would interfere with the profits of labourers of all classes, whether agricultural or manufacturing. It had been said by the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government, during the progress of the debate, that the prices of labour would not be affected by the admission of foreign corn; but long experience and observation as a landholder proved to him that this was erroneous, for whenever the price of wheat and other farm produce was low, the want of fair profit for capital, industry, and skill to the farmer, created a necessity for not only reducing the wages of his labourers, but, what was a more serious evil, reducing their number, and this particularly in the winter months. There was an old saying, that "it is wise to let well alone;" and he asked whether the condition of the country had not been prosperous, before this unexpected change in the opinions and conduct of Her Majesty's Ministers with respect to that protection to agriculture which had been deemed necessary by the wisdom of preceding statesmen, from the time of Edward III. up to the present period? He denied that the partial loss of the potato crop in Ireland offered any sound ground for applying as the remedy, a general and permanent alteration of the Corn Laws to meet a partial and by no means a general evil; and much less was there any justification for the cry of famine, when it was well known that Ireland never had so prosperous a harvest of every description, with the exception of a partial failure of the potatoes in some parts of that country; while in a great proportion good crops of sound potatoes had been grown, as he had been well assured by correspondents and persons well acquainted with the facts. He must say, that if just grounds existed for the fear of a scarcity of food from the partial failure alluded to, the opening of the ports of that
 227 d.; d. d.; d.; d. pari passu, 228 "As to the mode, amount, or degree of protection, many questions may arise; but to the principle that some protection is due, I have never heard an objection raised." "I admit that if unlimited foreign import, which the war suspended, were now again allowed, bread might be a little, though very little, cheaper than it now is for a year or two; but what would follow? The small farmer would be ruined, improvements would everywhere stand still, inferior lands now producing corn would return to waste; the home trader and shopman would lose the briskness of retail trade, and while their stocks increased their customers would fall away; and farm-servants and all trades depending on agriculture would lose their employment, and the necessary result of want of work would be, that wages would fall even more rapidly than the price of bread. Then comes some interruption to foreign import, coinciding with the decay of agriculture at home, and corn would be suddenly forced up again to a famine price. Such, I conceive, would be the inevitable consequence of again placing ourselves in a state of habitual and increasing dependence on foreign supply. Let the bread we eat be from home-grown corn, and the cheaper the better. It is cheap now, and I rejoice at it; but, to ensure continued cheapness, we must ensure to our own growers that protection against foreign import which has produced these blessings, and by which alone they can be permanently maintained." 229 
 
 Tons. £. 
 100,000 of African guano, at 8 l. 800,000 
 37,000 of Peruvian guano, at 12 l. 444,000 
 Total 137,000 tons, costing £ 1,244,000
 The EARL of LINCOLN : Mr. Speaker, I certainly should have been glad to be spared the duty of rising to address the House on this occasion; not that I have any difficulty in responding to the call that has been made upon me by my hon. Friend the Member for Dorsetshire (Mr. Bankes), but because of the fact that I have been labouring under some indisposition for two or three days, and I am afraid I shall not be able to express myself in a manner so satisfactory to the House as I could wish. At the same time, Sir, I feel that it is not possible for me to remain silent, after the sarcastic tone in which my hon. Friend took notice of the circumstance that I had not risen earlier to reply to the statements of the hon. and gallant Member for Armagh (Colonel Verner). I hope, however, that the House will excuse me, if, for the reason I have assigned, I avoid entering into the whole subject of the Corn Laws on the present occasion, and confine myself simply to replying to the speeches of my ton. Friend the Member for Dorsetshire, and the hon. and gallant Member for Armagh, which speeches were, I think, almost exclusively occupied with a denial of the existence of want among the population of Ireland. Now, with reference to the call made upon me by my hon. Friend who spoke last, I must say I should have thought that on general grounds, if not for the reason I have given, it was not necessary for the Secretary for Ireland, on the first occasion since his appointment that he happened to hear the statements which have been made by the hon. Gentlemen, to have risen to deny them; for I cannot suppose that the hon. Gentlemen could consider that the other Members of Her Majesty's Government are ignorant of the real state of things in Ireland, or that they do not, from time to time, receive accounts from the Government in that country of the real condition of the people; and I did
 245 246 247 s. 248 249 250 251 d. d. d.
 MR. STAFFORD O'BRIEN : The noble Lord having in the course of his speech appealed to me, I have no hesitatation in stating that I can confirm what he has said as far as regards the city of Limerick. I believe that, owing to the precarious supply of food, the noble Lord's fears were exaggerated when he expected an outbreak in that city; I believe that the promptitude with which the noble Lord attended to the wishes and remonstrance of the deputation who waited on him, did
 253 254 255
 The EARL of LINCOLN : Sir, I know it is irregular to rise a second time in the course of a debate; but I trust, after the laboured attack made on me by the noble Lord—after the manner in which he has obviously kept back, for this especial occasion, the envenomed bitterness which I suppose former friendship is considered to justify—after the deliberate and prepared assault made on me by the noble Lord, when he knew that I was not entitled by the rules of the House to rise and reply—I do hope that the House will allow me to trespass on its indulgence for a few moments. I will promise the House not to enter into particulars with regard to any other points than one on which he has attacked me. I shall explain nothing of my hustings speeches; any explanations respecting them will be reserved for another and more fitting occasion, for at any time I do not consider them to be of such importance as to occupy
 298 Ironical cheer from 299
 MR. LAW'S  Motion and the Amendment withdrawn. Amendments made by the Committee on the Bill agreed to. Bill to be read a third time on Monday.
 MR. S. HERBERT  did not rise to pursue the personal altercation which had been carried on on both sides with great powers of sarcasm. He would rather take the advice of the hon. Member who had spoken last, given in the early part of his address, as to the necessity, in the debates in that
 282 Theory of Commerce, 283 284 s. 285 286 287 toto cœlo 288
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said: My right hon. Friend the Secretary at War has been pleased, Sir, to refer to me, and to accuse me of having excited the public mind. I cannot say that I reproach myself with that, and I cannot claim any merit for not having agitated the country. Sir, I never attended any public meeting, and never addressed any speech, or any written letter, to any party on the subject now before the country—I never uttered a word in public upon it, until I felt it to be my duty to address this House. If, then, I have agitated the country, that agitation is restricted to the speeches I have made in this House. But, Sir, I must confess I was not a little surprised to hear my right hon. Friend taking this tone, inasmuch as I could not but think that the imputation of being an agitator was much more applicable to my right hon. Friend himself, who was formerly wont to be toasted, on public occasions, as equal in eloquence, and superior in honesty, to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government. The right hon. Gentleman was the agricultural protector; and on him, in the course of last December, when the Government was in a state of dissolution, did the agriculturists rely; and when we call to mind the speeches which my right hon. Friend made both in this House and on the hustings, we cannot be surprised that the whole agricultural mind of England had the notion that he, and not I, was to be its leader. Why,
 289 290 291 s. s. s., s. s. s. 292 "He was fully persuaded so superabundant was the potato crop in Ireland, that if one-third of the whole had been destroyed, the loss would not materially affect the supply of food; and that the hue and cry raised by the Government upon the subject, and echoed by the agitators, had contributed very much to the apparent scarcity of provisions, by causing the more opulent farmers to keep back their stock of potatoes with the hope of obtaining increased prices." 293 294 295 "The supply sufficiently confirms the universal opinion here, that abundance of feeding stuffs are held in Ireland, and only withheld in anticipation of the scarcity so confidently predicted at the opening of the Session." "I may mention, the import list is made up authoritatively, and not by each individual merchant." 296 297
 MR. LEFROY  rose on the present occasion, not so much from a desire to oppose what had fallen from the noble Lord the Chief Secretary for Ireland, as from a feeling that he would not be discharging his duty faithfully, if he did not state a few facts that came within his own observation, showing that, however distress might exist in certain districts in Ireland, that it was by no means so general in that country as they had been led to believe. He did not intend to contradict the statements that had been made by the noble Lord (Lord Lincoln) in reference to the distress that was said to exist in Limerick and the county of Clare. All that he was prepared to do, was to show that, so far as the circumstances of Ireland were concerned, they did not warrant the measures proposed by the right hon. Baronet; and if they were carried, that they would prove most detrimental to the interests of that country; and that the time would come when they would regret their adoption. He was desirous to state that, from inquiries he had made into the condition of the people in those districts in Ireland, with which he was more immediately connected, he found that the reports of the existing distress had been much exaggerated. He would first allude to the county of Longford; and with the permission of the House would read the following extract of a letter which he had received from a gentleman in Longford, dated Granard, April 14:—
 "For twenty years I have not seen this market better supplied with potatoes, oats, and meal than it was yesterday—the former 4 d. s. d. s. d. d. 256 d. d. "I have this day," wrote one correspondent, "purchased twenty tons of meal, at 15 l. s. s. d. s. d. s. s. s. d. 257 "In reply to your inquiries on the subject of fever and famine, I beg to offer the following opinion. Never has there been so shameful an exaggeration on any subject within my memory, as that which has been put forward by the advocates for the repeal of the Corn Laws. With regard to fever, we might ssy, as compared with other years, there is none; and as to famine, there is abundance of food, and the price is moderate. The only pressure is incases of looms being idle and weavers unemployed, partly caused owing to the unsettled state of affairs between America and the British Government, and partly by the suspense caused by the Corn Law question. I shall now give my reasons for the opinion I put forward:—1. As to fever. Whenever our district has been visited with fever to any extent, I am immediately made acquainted with it through one or other of the following channels:—1st. The parochial clergy frequently apply for aid to such persons as they find in fever and requiring aid. 2nd. The medical attendant, who has the care of the tenancy, and to whom they have access, not unfrequently asks for additional bedding to separate members of the same family to prevent contagion. 3rd. The borrowers at the loan fund are obliged to have my signature to prevent fines in case of accidental illness, and especially fever, and in the latter case I never refuse it. And lastly, the poor in fever come to me for jam, tea, sugar, and bread, which are generally supplied on demand, as a gift to those thus afflicted. Now, what is the fact? There has not been an instance of a clergyman recommending any one to me in fever since the potato panic commenced. The medical attendant has called my attention to but one case of fever within the same period. There are not three cases of fever in families connected with the loan fund; and lastly, I have had only one case of clothing and one of food as necessary to fever patients. We shall now turn to the question of famine. When others were laying in oatmeal, I was advised by experienced merchants to buy none. Those who bought at that time (September and October) at 17 s. d. s. l. l., l. l. "Portadown, March 28, 1846. "In answering your note of this day, I have to say that, along with all the other dispensary and fever hospital doctors of the kingdom, I was furnished with a number of questions from Dublin Castle respecting fever and apprehended scarcity
 258 "I dined in company with five clergymen on Friday last, who have large parishes, and their decided opinion was, that there never was so little fever as this year. Some of them said they had none; others mentioned one or two cases. They all agreed also in saying that as yet there was no distress of any peculiar degree." 259
 MR. DISRAELI  said: Sir, I am extremely sorry to be obliged to solicit the attention of the House on this occasion. It is a long time since we have had the pleasure of hearing the hon. and learned Gentleman; and I am sure that, although I may not have reason individually to congratulate myself upon the result of his recent retirement, still we are not sorry to see him again among us. The hon. and
 279 280 281 "Opinions identical with those of Colonel Torrens had been long held by him; and that his writings on the subject were only an elaboration of the fundamental doctrine of that essay;" "It is true that exports and imports must, in the end, balance one another. If imports increase, exports must increase also; but then it is a forced increase, produced by the efflux of money, and a fall of prices. And this fall of prices being permanent, though it may be no evil in a country where credit is unknown, becomes a serious evil where large classes of the people and the country itself are under engagements to pay fixed sums of money."
 MR. BANKES  concurred entirely in the sentiments of his hon. Friend who had just concluded his observations. But he rose more particularly to express the sincere and warm gratification which he felt in listening to the observations of the hon. and gallant Member who preceded him—the hon. and gallant Member for Armagh (Colonel Verner), who had delivered a
 239 240 "That the distress here is beyond all description, and there is nothing but starvation in every corner of the county. What is to be thought of the conduct of the Ministers who told them that in one part of the United Kingdom superabundance was the only complaint, while in another the people were starving." "In the county of Clare there were now 99,639 persons subsisting on charity from hour to hour. In Cork, there were 132,000 individuals who must perish with hunger if they did not receive relief." l. "The distress which has for some months prevailed in considerable portions of Ireland, arising principally from the failure of that crop upon which the great body of the population depends for subsistence, has deeply affected me. The measures which you have adopted, seconded as they have been by the spontaneous efforts of my people, have
 241 "The provision which you made last Session for the relief of considerable districts in Ireland, has been productive of the happiest effects." 242 243 244
 MR. HUDSON   * "And be it enacted, that the directors shall, within three months of the passing of this Act, cause the names and additions of all the several corporations and persons entitled to shares in the company, to be entered in the 'Register of Shareholders,' directed to be kept by 'the Companies Clauses Consolidation Act, 1845;' and the said directors shall cause an extraordinary meeting of the shareholders in the company to be called within six months from the passing of this Act, for the purpose of considering and determining whether the company shall proceed in the execution of the powers of this Act, or whether such company shall be forthwith dissolved; and it shall be lawful for such meeting so called, at which three-fifths at least of such shareholders shall be present, either personally or by proxy, to determine either that the company shall proceed in the execution of the powers of this Act, or that the company shall be forthwith dissolved; provided that before such meeting be called, it shall not be lawful for the company or the directors to put in force any of the powers of this Act relative to the taking or using of land; and in case such meeting so called shall determine that the company be forthwith dissolved, the company shall be thereupon forthwith dissolved accordingly, except for the purpose of winding up the affairs thereof as hereinafter mentioned; and thenceforth all the powers of this Act with relation to the taking or using of land, or otherwise, shall absolutely cease and determine, anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding (subject, and without prejudice to all existing debts, liabilities, or agreements contracted or entered into by the company, and subject to the provisions hereinafter contained); and the directors, after full payment and satisfaction, in the first instance, of all the debts, liabilities, and agreements contracted or entered into by the company, and of such compensation as hereby provided, shall divide the residue or surplus of the moneys and effects of or belonging to the said company, rateably among the shareholders in the said company in proportion to their respective interests therein; provided, nevertheless, that the company shall make full compensation to all owners, lessees, and occupiers of land and others, in the same manner as is herein provided in cases of compensation for land required for the purposes of this Act, for all loss, damage, cost, charges, and expenses which they may respectively have sustained or been put unto in consequence of the proceedings of the company in obtaining this Act, or under any of the powers thereof; the amount to be ascertained, in case of dispute, by the verdict
 * 221 l. 222 London Gazette, 223 bonâ fide l. l.
 MR. HUDSON  thanked the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Clerk), and the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) for their suggestions, and withdrew his Motion accordingly. His sole object was to relieve the subscribers to the contract deed from their liabilities, and to prevent a recurrence of the calamities and distress which he had seen in the years 1836, 1838, and 1839, consequent upon the want of some such provision. However, he was glad that Her Majesty's Government appeared to feel the importance of the matter, and he should be happy to hand the further proceedings in it over to Her Majesty's Solicitor General, whom he rejoiced to see in his place.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  thought the proceedings of the hon. Member altogether unprecedented. It was attempting to do that by a clause which ought to be done by a Bill, if it were to be done at all. He would recommend the hon. Member to withdraw the Motion.
 MR. FLOYER  had one observation to make in answer to the noble Lord. The noble Lord had thought proper in the course of his speech to make some remarks as to the rate of wages in the county of Dorset, and had, he thought, travelled somewhat out of his way in interposing such remarks in his attempt to answer what he (Mr. Floyer) considered the unswerable arguments
 252 s. s.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that if he thought that if a word of his would add to the length of the debate, he would not utter it, but he wished, without loss of time, to trouble the House on one point; he, therefore, would then only venture to say a few words. With all possible respect for the Member for Oxfordshire, he thought that the observations as to personal interest
 274 275 "Quis tulerit Gracchos de seditione quærentes?" 276 277 "The opinions now laid before the reader are presented as corollaries necessarily following from the principles upon which free trade itself rests. The writer has also been careful to point out that, from these opinions, no justification can be derived for any protecting duty, or other preference given to domestic over foreign industry. But in regard to those duties on foreign commodities which do not operate as protection, but are maintained solely for revenue, and which do not touch either the necessaries of life or the materials and instruments of production, it is his opinion that any relaxation of such duties beyond what may be required by the interests of the revenue itself, should, in general, be made contingent upon the adoption of some corresponding degree of freedom of trade with this country by the nation from which the commodities are imported." 278 "With a view to practical legislation, duties on importation may be divided into two classes—those which have the effect of encouraging some particular branch of domestic industry, and those which have not. The former are purely mischievous, both to the country imposing them, and to those with whom it trades. They present a saving of labour and capital, which, if permitted to be made, would be divided in some proportion or other between the importing country and the countries which buy what that country does or might export. The other class of duties are those which do not encourage one mode of procuring an article at the expense of another, but allow the interchange to take place just as if the duty did not exist; and to produce the saving of labour, which constitutes the motive to international as to all other commerce.…A protecting duty can never be a cause of gain."
 MR. HENLEY  wished to offer a few observations to the House on this important subject; and as a Member in his position had little chance of obtaining a hearing in a debate on the third reading, he trusted the House would bear with him now for a short time. With regard to the reasons which had induced Her Majesty's Government to depart from the policy which they had formerly pursued, he might remark, that the first argument adduced by the Government had reference to the social position of the country. A great improvement, they said, had taken place in the country within the last four years, and particularly with reference to crime. But he might remark, that the progress of free-trade measures had not been going on for the last four years, but for the last thirty years; and, therefore, if the diminution of crime was caused by the adoption of free-trade measures, then that diminution ought to have gone on for the last thirty years. Now, he would assert that during the last four years there had been a remarkable decrease of crime. In 1842 there were 31,000 commitments in England; and these commitments had diminished by a fourth part during the next four years. But, had the same result been obtained during the last thirty years? On the contrary, he found that crime had more than doubled in that time. And with regard to the last four years, had no other cause been in operation than the progress of free-trade measures? He would not now allude to the construction of railways, though the importance of spending 20,000,000 l. 269 270 271 "If in Downing-street Old Nick shall revel England's Prime Minister, God bless the Devil." l. 272 273 "Even with low-priced corn and cheaper provisions generally, with low wages also, prices and the remuneration for labour could not be reduced so much as to allow a successful competition with the foreigner."
 MR. HENLEY  said, the right hon. Gentleman laboured under a mistake in attributing to him the observations to which he had referred in the course of his speech. What he had said was, that two Cabinet Ministers had recommended the hon. Gentlemen with whom he acted to pursue a course which he considered they could not take consistently with honour; but he had given no opinion as to the course adopted by Her Majesty's Government being consistent or inconsistent with honour.
 MR. BORTHWICK  rose to say a few words before the House decided upon the Motion submitted by his hon. Friend. The right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government had declared his intention of walking in the light of the Constitution. He was not, however, one who asserted that the Corn Laws was a part of the Constitution. The right hon. Baronet had declared those laws to be unjust, which, but a short time since he deemed to be only impolitic; and what the extent of his next conviction might be, was most difficult to tell. He would read to the House a few lines written by one of the most celebrated men of the age in which he lived—he meant Sir Walter Scott—when comparing Louis the Sixteenth of France with Charles the First of England, which appeared to him to be eminently characteristic of the conduct of the right hon. Baronet. The hon. Member read the following extract:—
 "Both sovereigns fell under the suspicion of being deceitful and insincere, when perhaps both, but certainly Louis, only changed his course of conduct from a change of his own opinion, or from suffering himself to be over-persuaded and deferring to the sentiments of others. Few monarchs of any country certainly have changed their counsels and measures so often as Louis XVI., and with this unhappy consequence, that he neither persevered in a firm and severe course of government long enough to inspire respect, nor in a conciliatory and yielding policy for a sufficient time to propitiate regard and inspire confidence. It is with regret we mention this, in a character otherwise so excellent." 260 261 "Sir Robert Peel, therefore, proposes to put those branches of national industry which can accept the contest without perishing, to this proof of foreign competition. But do not think on that account that Sir Robert Peel has ceased to be a Conservative in political economy. Do not think that he has abolished, or that he means to abolish, all protecting duties. You can pass in review all the duties established by this new Tariff, as my hon. Friend the Minister of Commerce said yesterday, and you will find that many protecting duties continue to exist in it, and protecting duties of a very efficacious kind. Sir Robert Peel does not mean blindly to give up the market of England to foreign industry. He is not the apostle of unlimited liberty of commerce. He is merely the partisan of foreign competition limited to certain conditions. Gentlemen, that is the true character, the real end of the measures which are at the present moment under discussion on the other side of the channel. What is there in the measures for us to sdopt? The first of these measures, namely, the social reform which interests the manufacturing population, I hesitate not to say is not applicable to us." "The economical reforms proposed in the British Parliament cannot fail to have occupied general attention. Those who think that we should not hesitate to imitate the example given us by the English Parliament, advise a premature and dangerous act. England has never pursued any other line of conduct than that of her interest; and she was right. It is in that particular we should imitate her. From the earliest period it
 262 * * * "What is the position of France? We do not stand in need of any such social reform, for our manufacturing population is much less numerous than our agricultural population, and is, comparatively speaking, better off than the same class in England, nor is it subject to the fluctuations which periodically affect the British markets. Thus we are not called upon to imitate the social reform now passing in England, and there presenting so interesting a spectacle. Neither are we called upon to imitate her commercial reform, and for this reason, that for a series of years we have been proceeding step by step in the path of industrial reforms, and for the further reason, that the home market is more valuable than the foreign." 263 Kilkenny Moderator, Morning Post "Distress, in some few instances deep and dire, no doubt there is, and no doubt it will increase as summer advances; but then it must be taken into consideration that when the seed will have been sown, potatoes must fall in price. There is an abundant stock of sound potatoes in the country, which is merely withheld from the market on the speculation of commanding an increased price hereafter. The following is the return which we have obtained from the Fever Hospital:— 
 
 Patients admitted for the quarter ending Feb. 1, 1846 329 
 For the quarter ending May 1, 1846 246 
 Showing a decrease of disease for the quarter ending May 1 of 83 
 
 And as compared with last year:— 
 Quarter ending May 1, 1845 330 
 Quarter ending May 1, 1846 246 
 Decrease as compared with the corresponding quarter last year 84 "The hon. Member for Liverpool said last night that he could not see that connexion; and the hon. Member for Northamptonshire, following the same track, has also said that he did not see the intimate connexion between the two questions. Will the House, then, allow me to state what was the effect produced on my mind by this inevitable coming scarcity in Ireland? I foresaw, and I am afraid rightly, that it would be indispensably necessary to give to the suffering community in Ireland aid from the public purse of this country to meet this great calamity. Already some advances of the public money have been asked for, and I am afraid that further advances may still be necessary. Then
 264 per se, "Princes and peers may flourish or may fade, A breath can make them, as a breath has made; But a bold peasantry, a country's pride, When once destroyed can never be supplied." 265 "Of all things," said Mr. Burke, "an indiscreet tampering with the trade of provisions is the most dangerous, and it is always worst in the time when men are most disposed to it; that is, in the time of scarcity. Because there is nothing on which the passions of men are so violent, and their judgment so weak, and on which there exists such a multitude of ill-founded prejudices." "The great use of Government is as a restraint; and there is no restraint which it ought to put upon others, and upon itself too, rather than that which is imposed on the jury of speculating under circumstances of irritation. The number of idle tales spread about by the industry of faction, and by the zeal of foolish good intention, and greedily devoured by the malignant credulity of mankind, tends infinitely to aggravate prejudices which in themselves are sufficiently strong." "It is a perilous thing to try experiments on the farmer. The farmer's capital (except in a few persons and in a very few places) is far more feeble than commonly is imagined. The trade is a very poor trade—it is subject to great risks and losses. The capital, such as it is, is turned but once in the year; in some branches it requires three years before the money is paid. I believe never less than three in the turnip and grass-land course, which is the prevalent course on the more or less fertile sandy and gravelly loams, and these compose the soil in the south and south-east of England—the best adapted, and perhaps the only ones that are adapted to the turnip husbandry. It is very rare that the most prosperous farmer, counting the value of his quick and dead stock, the interest of the money he turns, together with his own wages as a bailiff or overseer, ever does make twelve or fifteen per cent by the year on his capital. I speak of the prosperous. In most of the parts of England which have fallen within my observation, I have rarely known a former (who to his own trade has not added some other employment or traffic) that, after a course of the most unremitting parsimony and labour (such for the greater part is theirs), and, persevering in his business for a long course of years, died worth more than paid his debts, leaving his posterity to continue in nearly the same equal conflict between industry and want in which the last predecessor, and a long line of predecessors before him, lived and died." 266 credo. 267 "Like the vile straw that whirls about the streets, The wretched waverer sticks to all he meets, Coached, carted, trod upon, now loose, now fast, And carried off in some dog's tail at last." 268 Helena Hermia "Both warbling of one song, both in one key; Both creating one flower, both on one sampler." "Like a double cherry, seeming parted, But yet an union in partition." "Two lovely berries moulded on one stem, Two seeming bodies but one heart."
 MR. CHRISTIE  wished to call the atte tion of the right hon. Home Secretary to the representations contained in the petition of Mary Anne Tyler, which he presented
 224 l. s. "If any servant in husbandry, or any artificer, calio-printer, handicraftman, miner, collier, keel-man, pitman, glassman, potter, labourer, or other person, shall absent himself or herself from his or her service before the term of his or her contract shall be completed, or neglect to fulfil the same, or be guilty of any other misconduct or misdemeanour in the execution thereof, the magistrates might commit to prison, with hard labour, for three months, or in lieu thereof abate the whole or a part of the wages due to the offender." 225
 COLONEL VERNER  would not have considered it necessary to have trespassed on the time of the House for one moment, had it not been that he observed so few Members
 230 231 232 233 "You are perfectly correct in your statement to the House relative to the large stock of provisions in this country at present; and what may appear rather strange is, that potatoes are now cheaper in this neighbourhood than they have been for the last four months." Newry Telegraph, "No doubt there is, to a certain extent, a deficient stock of potatoes; and the price of the esculent is higher than has been the case, of late, at the same period of the year. But we assert that it is a fact which cannot be controverted, that there are at this moment in the pits of the farmers, generally, large quantities of potatoes of excellent quality. We assert further, that, as compensatory for the deficiency of potatoes, there is in the surrounding country a stock of wheat, oats,
 234 Newry Telegraph s. d. "The Indian meal is nearly as dear as our own in Dublin. It is bought chiefly as a curiosity to taste what sort of thing it is.….One friend of mine, resident in Kerry, informs me, that the price of potatoes have fallen nearly one-third, and that the chief cause of the hitherto high prices in his quarter (Dingle) was, that persons who had them were holding them over for the highest price."
 SIR C. BURRELL , with the permission of the House, would withdraw his Amendment.
 SIR G. CLERK  would confine his objections to the point of form. The hon. Member called this a clause; but in point of fact it was a new system of railway legislation, and it was quite impossible that this clause could be inserted in every Bill. He thought that the hotter course for the hon. Member would be to wait until the Bill which had been introduced into the other House by Lord Dalhousie should come down to the Commons; and he could then propose such amendments as he thought fit, or introduce another Bill, if he thought it necessary.
 SIR J. GRAHAM : The first case referred to by the hon. Member for Weymouth, that of Ann Tyler, was brought under my notice before the hon. Gentleman presented a petition on the subject. I made strict inquiry into the circumstances, and I was satisfied that the conviction was illegal, and I immediately despatched an order for the prisoner's liberation. I have since informed the magistrate that the conviction was illegal; I have stated to him strongly that his conduct appeared to me highly reprehensible, and that, if such conduct were repeated, it would be my duty to bring it under the special notice of the Lord Chancellor, with a view to his dismissal. The second case—that of a female servant committed for a breach of the laws relating to masters and servants—was not brought under my notice till yesterday, when I received a communication on the subject from the hon. Gentleman. I immediately made inquiries into the case, but I have not yet received an explanation. With regard to the last case, I have called the attention of the Poor Law Commissioners specially to it, and they will institute an inquiry into the circumstances.
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  would willingly have listened to any Member of the opposite opinions; but the matter under debate was of such importance (perhaps, indeed, the most important of any on which he should ever speak), that he was induced to offer some observations upon it, although there were many present who were much better able than he was to speak on this occasion. It was painful for him to have to reflect on the conduct of Ministers in whom
 235 236 "It is my earnest hope and belief, that the measure I have felt it my duty to propose to Parliament, will contribute to the welfare of the country. We certainly have not prospered under a protective system." 237 s. s. s. s. s., s., 238 s. s.
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  rose to move that the Bill be read a third time that day six months. The question, he considered, was one that affected all who were concerned in agriculture. Before entering into the main question, he would make a few observations on the manufactures of the country. The noble Lord (Lord G. Bentinck) had already said that the agricultural interest did not desire to see manufactures decline in this country. He wished to see the stream of manufacturing prosperity conducted into channels safe and useful. He did not wish to see it decline—he wished to see it flow like the noble river outside these walls—in one full and constant stream, never drying up or running into unprofitable channels. The protectionists did not wish to see manufactures flourish at the expense of agriculture. They thought that manufactures properly regulated would tend to the prosperity and benefit of the country. The agriculturists wished to see the calm waters of manufacturing prosperity reflect the image of their own prosperity. The agriculturists only desired to live and let live. But now to the question of the repeal of the Corn Laws. The object of the Corn Laws had been much misrepresented. The Anti-Corn-Law advocates said the Corn Law supporters wished to starve the people. He denied it. He asserted the object of the Corn Law supporters was to supply corn to the people at a constant and a moderate price. They proposed to do this by the assertion of two great principles. First, to raise the people's subsistence, as far as they could, from our own soil; to give employment to as many of our own people as they could in the healthy and manly employment of agriculture; and to render this country thereby independent of foreign nations. And, second, that as we knew
 331 "Speculators purchase up grain largely on the Continent during years of plenty, and store them in the British bonded warehouses, in anticipation of the rise of prices on the first unfavourable season. There the ample store lies innocuous to the British farmer during seasons of prosperity, when its aid is not required by the British consumer; but no sooner does the expected period of adversity arrive, than it issues forth in vast quantities to avert the calamity, and diffuse the stream of plenty through every village and hamlet in the realm." "And it is particularly worthy of observation, that this fortunate effect in 1838 could not possibly have taken place if an unrestricted trade in corn had existed, and that it is the creation of the corn law, and the corn law alone. If a free importation of grain were permitted between Great Britain and the Continent, these great bonded reservoirs of grain in the British harbours would not exist. Food would be provided for a large part of our population by the foreign, instead of the British, cultivators. The temptation of sale, at a present profit, would prove irresistible to the foreign importer; and the British warehouses (of Dantzic wheat) would be emptied as rapidly upon the first rise of prices, as the stackyards of the British cultivators. The home supply being greatly diminished, and the foreign proportionably augmented, the average supply would just be about equal to the average demand, and no reserve store would be accumulated in any quarter to supply the wants of the people in seasons of scarcity. But while a free importation of grain could not provide such a reserve store, for the same reason that it cannot be provided by the domestic growers in the British islands, it is effectually secured by the present Corn Law; which, prohibiting importation in ordinary seasons, yet permits any quantity of foreign grain to be stored up in our bonded warehouses, and thus permits the surplus produce of the Continent, in years of plenty, to be set apart as a reserve for the British population in periods of scarcity." 332 "Sir—I doubt not but by this time you are very deep in the faculty of law-making. I desire much that if any laws be passed, we may have the heads of the heads of them (the titles of the chiefest). "I had some conference with Sir R. Buller (to whom, I pray, and Sir T. Wise remember my service), concerning a Bill that no corn should be imported until it came to some extraordinary price. Of this, having since consideration, there seems to me many reasons very strong for the converting of this Bill into a statute. "A first is, because the importation of corn is an exportation of money, and that, even in case of necessity, is a hurt to the commonwealth, though then tolerable for the avoiding of a greater hurt, but in unnecessary cases altogether inexcusable. "Secondly, if importation be unlimitedly allowed, the cheapness of corn will take away the benefit of husbandry; and the benefit being taken away, husbandry itself (which is usually undertaken for benefit) will decay. And if husbandry decay, there are likely to grow two main inconveniences. The one, that the poor must starve for want of work, the effect whereof hath too much appeared in the conversion of tillage into sheep pasture. A second, that in a short time, this kingdom to be set to a rent, will be less worth per annum many thousand pounds; for I think, within this twenty years, husbandry hath, in many places, doubled the yearly value of land, which, if tillage decay, is likely to return to the ancient means. "And whereas there is a seeming objection that importation makes cheapness, and cheapness seems to favour the poor, I affirm that this importation will especially hurt the poor, and for their sakes especially it is to be forbidden. For if corn be cheap, and the poor man have no money, what avails it to him that corn is cheap when he cannot buy it? If money be carried out of the country, and the poor man be not set on work by reason of the decay of tillage, I wonder how he shall buy this cheap corn without money? I think it were better that
 333 s. d. s. s., d., s. "Thus I have expressed to you the considerations which entered into my thoughts upon this business, which, if you think them worth the mentioning, I pray you to communicate to Sir R. Buller, which I do not to add to better judgment, but rather to submit them to their approbation. And I wish that this letter may be prevented by a statute before it comes to your hands. "And so wishing you the direction of the Highest, and that the hand of the Almighty may be with you all unto the making of laws wholesome and restorative for this poor and sinful land, I take leave, ever resting, yours most assuredly to be commanded, (Signed) "F. Roos. "April 30." (Addressed) "To my loving and much-esteemed cousin, Richard Carey, Esq., London." s. s. s. s.; 334 s. s. d.; s. d. s., d.; s., s.; 335 336 s. s. s. 
 
 In all £1,147 10 0 
 100 acres of oats would produce 800 quarters at 20 s. d. 816 13 4 
 £1,964 3 4 
 
 450 quarters wheat, 35 s. £787 10 0 
 800 quarters oats, 14 s. 560 0 0 
 £1,347 10 0 
 Suppose the rent of the land to be 2 l. 600 0 0 
 £1,947 10 0 l. s. s. d. l. 337 l. s., l., l. l., l. Quarterly Review "Previous to the late dissolution of Parliament I said, and I now repeat it, that I think the sliding-scale a preferable method of settling the duty. I then said that I could not pledge myself to the details of the existing law; but that I would reserve to myself an unfettered power of considering and amending these details. I hold the same language now: I still prefer the principle of a graduated duty; but if you ask me whether I will bind myself to maintain the existing Corn Law in all its details, and whether that is the condition upon which the landed interest give me their support, I say that, upon that condition, I will not accept their support." 338 inter alia 339 "And you, good yeomen, Whose limbs were made in England, show you here The mettle of your pasturage; let us swear That you were worth your breeding, which I doubt not, For there are none of you so base and mean That hath not noble lustre in your eyes. I see you stand like greyhounds in the slips, Straining upon a start. The game's afoot; Follow your spirits." "And with this charge, Cry 'God for the Queen, England, and St. George.'" 340
 MR. SPEAKER  said, if the hon. Member was stating the substance of the petition he was in order, but if he was reading the petition and addressing the House on a question of privilege, he was not in order; for his purpose was to object to the decision of an Election Committee, which the House had decided should be conclusive.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the regular course for the hon. Member to take was to move that the petition be printed, and to give notice that he should call the attention of the House to it.
 MR. CAYLEY , in reply (to Sir James Graham) contended that when Lord Grenville said that monopoly was the parent of scarcity, he did not apply the remark to the present Corn Laws. Lord Grenville's observations applied to the Corn Bill of 1815, which prohibited the importation of wheat until the price rose to 80 s. 395 396 397 s. s., 398 399 s. 400 s. s. d. 401 d. s. s. l. "It is no use attempting to get rid of this most mischievous bank influence, unless we can get the country gentlemen to help us. Let us attack the Corn Laws, and when they are repealed, the country gentlemen will be ready enough to help us to put the monetary operations of the country in order." 402 l. l.
 MR. BANKES  adopted the suggestion from the chair, and the Motion for printing the petition was agreed to.
 MR. BANKES  said, the course he adopted might possibly be irregular, but he thought the importance of the subject justified the proceeding. In deference to the rules of the House, he would only read the substance of the petition. The petitioner Rockett, stated that he had been an elector, of Bridport for the last thirty years; that during the whole of that period he had voted for Tory candidates; that he had attended every contested election; that at the last election for Bridport he tendered his vote, and voted for Mr. Cochrane; that his vote had been transferred by the Committee to Mr. Romilly—a course repugnant to his feelings, and, in his opinion, inju-
 329
 MR. BANKES  said, he had a petition to present of rather an unusual nature, and as it contained a question of privilege, he hoped he might he excused if he departed from the rule which ordinarily governed the presentation of petitions. The petition relation to a voter of Bridport, named Rockett, who complained that the decision of the Committee turned solely on the question of one vote, and one vote only—that the Committee had come to the determination to transfer this one vote from one candidate to another, whereby one Member was unseated, and the other put in his place—
 MR. MILNES GASKELL  said, he rose to second the Amendment, though it was no small disadvantage to follow the admirable speech which had just been made by the noble Lord (the Marquess of Granby). He felt, however, that the obligation to perform this duty was one from which he could not honourably shrink; and in his (Mr. Gaskell's) opinion, it was imperative upon those who were unconvinced by the arguments which had been addressed to them, to state fairly and frankly before the House, and before the country, the grounds upon which their opinions remained unchanged. If he had come to a different conclusion upon this subject since the proposition of the Government had been first brought forward, he would have called upon his constituents either to record a change of opinion upon their own part, or to select some other Gentleman better qualified to represent them than himself—he would not have taken advantage of the privilege which they had conferred upon him for the purpose of promoting measures which he had been returned to that House to combat. He knew it had been said by very high authorities, by the noble Lord the Member for London, and by others, that this was a doctrine not recognized by the Constitutution, and subversive of the legitimate functions of Members of that House. Now, he (Mr. Gaskell) was one of the last men to assert a principle tending to impair or limit them. He differed even from his noble Friend the Member for Newark (Lord J. Manners) in the opinion that the Parliament of 1714 had not been justified by a great State necessity in the passing of the Septennial Act; but surely there was a broad and intelligible distinction between the legislative competency of Parliament, and the equitable right possessed by its Members to break engagements which they
 341 342 s. s. 343 344
 MR. J. COLLETT  had every reason to believe that the statement was true. The statement was the foundation of his question, and he did not see how he could put it to the right hon. Baronet unless he was allowed to place it on the Votes.
 MR. J. COLLETT  wished to ask the Home Secretary if he could give any information relative to a case before Captain Lyons, a Hampshire magistrate, the particulars of which had appeared in a newspaper. The case in question appeared in the form of a dialogue between a police constable, of the North Hampshire district, named Hale, and a man named Silvester. The police constable was reported to have asked the man if he wanted a job; and on being replied to in the affirmative, the policeman told Silvester he had got a hare and a pheasant in his house, and that if he took them to a fisherman, named Bridger, and afterwards laid an information against the man, he would get 5 l.
 MR. FLOYER  thanked the hon. Member for Shaftesbury for the courtesy he had shown, and he trusted he had too high a sense of admiration of his hon. Friend's object, to question for a moment his veracity or his truth. When he entered the House on Friday night he had no intention of trespassing on the indulgence of the House; but when he heard the statements put forth by the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland, he did think some wrong impression would go forth to the world as to the condition of the poor in Dorsetshire. No doubt that noble Lord was referring to the authority of the hon. Member's letter, but he stated that wages in the county of Dorset were generally 7 s. s. s. s. 352 s. d. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. 353
 MR. SHERIDAN  rose with great reluctance to bring before the House a matter of a somewhat private and personal nature; but, at the same time, intimately connected with the subject then under discussion. It would be in the recollection of the House that on Friday last the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland, in reply to the senior Member for Dorsetshire, suggested to him that he would be more properly occupied in comparing the condition of the agricultural labourers of Dorsetshire with that of the Irish peasantry. With all due submission, and without intending any disrespect, he (Mr. Sheridan) must say that this was sound and wholesome advice; and he trusted that the hon. Member for Dorsetshire, as well as his Colleagues, would take it into their consideration. The hon. Member for Dorsetshire (Mr. Floyer), in reply to the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland, stated, that so far as regarded his own neighbourhood around the county town of Dorsetshire, and in other parts of the county, the statements of the noble Lord, founded on what he (Mr. Sheridan) had stated, were directly at variance with truth. Now, that was a strong expression; but, at the same time, he felt confident, from his knowledge of the character of that hon. Gentleman, that he would not so far forget what was due to him as a personal friend as to say anything offensive. He would not attempt, nor would it be congenial to the House, nor in good taste, to attempt to controvert that assertion by one of an opposite character. He would not go upon his own responsibility at all; but he would produce to the House, and for the satisfaction of the hon. Gentleman, statements made by gentlemen connected with the county, clergymen of the Established Church, men whose names were well known, and who were familiar with the condition of the poor. Last Friday he had addressed letters to several gentlemen on this subject, and he had received replies, which he would read to the House. The first was from the rev. Mr. Scott, brother of the hon. Member for Roxburghshire:—
 "Maiden Newton, Dorchester, May 10, 1846, "My dear Sheridan—You ask for an answer by
 345 s. s. d. s. d. i. e.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  begged the hon. Member to consider the position in which he placed the House by the course he had taken. The statement of the hon. Member would be circulated about the country for
 330 ex parte
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : The House, Sir, is evidently weary of this protracted debate; so also I believe is the public, and an opportunity of finally—as far as we are concerned—deciding this most important question, which now for nearly three months has been pending here under dis-
 376 377 378 379 "If the measures of the Government have not a tendency to occasion a great displacement of labour, a displacement of that kind of labour which is of the most permanent character—if they have not by that displacement a tendency to occasion great social suffering, and ultimately great political disaster, then, I say, they are good measures; and I for one am not prepared to oppose them." s. 380 s. s. 381 382 383 384 "That a grant of 38,000 l. l., 385 386 387 s. s. d. s. s. d. 388 389 "It is for the advantage of the farmer to raise prices, is it not?—I do not think so; I am not of that opinion. I do not think it is to the advantage of the farmer to have very high prices. "What do you consider most advantageous to the farmer?—A steady price; that the farmer when he goes to take land should look to some steady price, and not look to adventitious circumstances to keep him out of a difficulty. 390 "Do you think the present scale (that was the law of 1828) has had the effect of creating greater fluctuations of price than there would have been under a more reduced scale?—That is a question that I cannot answer, not having been in the corn trade; but I am certain that the Corn Laws have raised delusive hopes in the farmers." "You are decidedly of opinion that steadiness of price is the circumstance most important to the farmer?—My opinion is not in accordance with that of most people with respect to the interest of landlord and tenant. Up to a certain point I hold that they go together; that it is the interest of the tenant to keep the land in good condition, as it is of the landlord that he should do so; but his landlord's interest is to have a high price to enable him to pay a high rent. I do not think it is the tenant's interest to be clamorous about a high price; it makes very little difference to me whether I pay a high or a low price; and I think the country thrives better all round me, if the price is a moderate one; it is better for me not to have a high price, provided my expenses are in proportion. "The farmer is a capitalist, and it is of importance to him to be able to calculate the returns upon his capital?—Just so. "He would do that better, and feel more certainty, if he were sure of a steady price of wheat?—Yes, he would. "Suppose that the present system, or any system of Corn Laws, tends to produce fluctuations in the price of wheat, that must be ruinous in its consequences to the farmer?—There is no doubt of it." "Do you think you could do without protection altogether?—Not in the present state of things. I think we must come to that ultimately; but we, must go by easy steps." "But you think that the poorer class of farmers at present look at 60 s. "Is it your opinion that, upon the average of years, prices can attain to that height?—It is my opinion that they cannot, and that they will not attain 50 s. "And the consequence is, that the poorer farmers have fallacious hopes raised?—Yes." 391 "I do not know that mine is a fair case to be taken as a general case, because I started very poor in life, and I have had a hard struggle, and other circumstances that contributed to depress me. I am the only remaining farmer in the parish where I was brought up. Except myself, there is not a farmer, nor the son of a farmer, remaining within the parish but myself." "What is the reason of their having all gone away?" Mr. Howden replied—"The money rents that were exacted of them; they all conceived that they were to have 80 s. "Then there has been a great change of tenantry in your neighbourhood?—There has been. "And that has been caused by the fall of prices?—Yes, and the want of accommodation on the part of the proprietors. "The proprietors have not reduced their rent in proportion?—They now have generally done so; but they were loth in doing it when the circumstances required, and therefore the tenantry fell." s. in communibus annis, "In your opinion, did the Corn Law that was made in 1815, deceive both the landlord and the tenant?—It did. I believe that the calculation upon which they took at that time was almost universally 4 l. "The general impression was, that the Corn Laws then made would have the effect of keeping wheat at the price of 80 s., "If the Corn Law had not the effect of keeping
 392 "The Corn Law, having promised a price of 80 s., 393 s., s., 394 Cheers.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, he could give no answer to the question. He hoped, however, that the question would not be put on the Votes, as the circumstances might turn out very different to the representations in the paper.
 SIR J. EASTHOPE : So far as the wretchedness and misery of the Dorsetshire labourers were allowed to affect the question before the House, he thought they had no longer any ground for debate or controversy. They had had a somewhat
 354 s. s. d. s. s. s. 355 s., s., s.
 MR. W. MILES  said, that after the able speeches of his noble Friend, and of his hon. Friend who moved and seconded the Amendment, he must express his surprise that no Member of the Treasury benches had yet thought fit to reply to them. He was not so surprised at the three last speeches remaining unanswered; as, had it not been for a misunderstanding relative to the wages of the Dorsetshire labourers, they might not have been favoured with them; and those hon. Members did not enter at any length upon the subject of the night. But he must again express his wonder, that no Member of the Government had replied to the speeches of his noble Friend, and of his hon. Friend; not only because of the excellent matter with which these speeches abounded, but on account of the position of the speakers who left the Government on a point of principle. Before entering upon the subject, he would premise by saying once more, that this was not the selfish case of the landlord, but of the tenant and of the labourer. He thought that as regarded this aspect of the measure—namely, as it affected the tenant and the labourer, something remained to be said, and he would endeavour to fill up the void, and thoroughly to enter into the subject as a farmer would. He would undertake to prove—and he challenged confutation—that the measure would not only injuriously affect the landlords, but much more the tenant, and still more than all the labourers. He would studiously avoid touching on the home trade, and would confine himself as much as possible to the purely agricultural part of the subject, and the interests which the measure would peculiarly affect, in case it became the law of the land. His observations would be first directed to the
 356 357 s. s. s. s. s. d., 358 s. l. l. s. d. s., s. d. l., s. s. d., l. l. 359 360 s. d. s. s. d., s. s. s. d., s. d. s. s. s. d. s. d. s. s. s. s. s. 361 s. s. s. d. s. d., s. d., s. d. s. d., s. d. s. d. s. d. 362 s. d. s. "I will contract to deliver in London, within three years after the opening of the ports of England to foreign grain free of duty, 50,000 quarters of wheat, weighing at least 61 lb. per bushel, at 40 s. s. l. s., 363 s. l. s. l. s. l. s. l. l. s. l.; s. l. s.; l. l. s. l. s. 364 l., l. s., l. s. d. l. s. l.; s. l.; s. l.; s., l. l. s. l.; s. l.; s. l.; l. l. l. l., l. s. 365 l. s. s.; s.; s.; s.; s.; s.; s.; s.; 366 s. d. s. d.; s.; s. d.; s. d.; l. s. d.; l. s. d.; l. s.; l. s.; l. s. d.; l. s. d.; pari passu, l. s. d., s. d.; l. s., s.; l. s., s. d.; l. s. d., s. d.; s. d. s., s. 367 s. d. s. d. l. s. d. s. d. s. s. s. d., l. s. l. s. d. 368 Macgregor's Tables. Revelations of Russia "A prodigious extent of the territories of European Russia is wonderfully fertile. Its produce is such, that there must always be an increasing demand from abroad, and partially of a nature sufficiently various and useful to enable the country to thrive and prosper on it, if driven to consume it at home. Corn, tallow, hemp, hides, wool, and wine—her staple articles—she might easily produce in tenfold abundance, and so cheap as to undersell all the world." "Had the Corn Laws been absolutely repealed in 1825, the establishment of manufactories in the United States might have been procrastinated many years; but no change in those laws can now materially change the course of production in this country, and any alteration made will not be considered as a boon to agricultural nations, but as a measure forced upon the Government by the wants of a population increasing more rapidly than agricultural productions on a limited extent of land, and in an uncertain climate." 369 s. s. 370 "He did hope, however, that the commercial class would maturely weigh all the consequences which must result from the substitution of the United States' markets for those of the mother country. It would be impossible but that such a change in our commercial relations would very soon bring about a change in all our other relations. Our interests would cease to be identified with the interests of the parent state; our mental associations would assume new forms; our customs, and laws, aye, and our institutions too, would be assimilated to those of the people with whom we cultivated mercantile relations. There was a time, the hon. Gentleman said, when he believed that patriotism had no connexion with self-interest; but he had lived long enough to change his opinions on that subject, and he did think that loyalty had some relation to pecuniary considerations. If, however, by a course of Imperial policy, over which the people of Canada can exert no possible control, they are forced into a new sphere of social and political attraction, they are not the culpable party." 371 
 
 Plain Calicoes to United States in 1841 11,957,053 yds. 
 Ditto to British America 7,757,332 
 Balance in favour of United States in 1841 4,199,721 
 Calicoes, printed and dyed, to United States in 1841 26,025,281 
 Ditto to British America 10,703,415 
 Balance in favour of United States 15,321,866 
 Plain Calicoes to United States in 1845 12,412,981 
 Ditto to British America 11,580,586 
 Balance in favour of United States only 832,395 
 Printed and dyed Calicoes to the United States in 1845 13,097,851 
 Ditto to British America 13,362,173 
 Balance in favour of British America 264,322 d. d.; s. d.; s. d.; s. d.; s.; s. d.; s. d.; s. d.; s. d. 372 
 
 Medical relief in the county of Essex, years ending March, 1844, 7,871 l. s. £3,935 16 0 
 Schoolmasters and mistresses.—I can find no returns. Witham Union, 55 l. 935 0 0 
 Auditor for county 350 0 0 
 Subsistence of prisoners, including bedding, clothing, and other expenses incidental on their imprisonment in all the prisons in the county 3,319 5 8 
 Expenses of prosecutions—assizes, quarter sessions, adjourned sessions, and Central Criminal Court, 4,317 l. s. d. 2,158 18 5 
 Total of local taxation proposed to be paid out of the general taxation of the country £10,698 17 1
 The EARL of LINCOLN : Sir, I am extremely unwilling to prolong even for a few minutes any discussion of a mere personal nature in this House; but I feel, that after what has been addressed to the House by the hon. Gentleman, it would not be right for me to remain perfectly silent on the subject. I can assure the hon. Member that his movements were not so well known to me, as that I was aware of his absence from London, or even from the House when I addressed it on Friday last; in fact, I was not aware of that circumstance till he mentioned it just now. But when he complains of my making an ungenerous attack upon him, in imputing to him that he made a charge of bribery against me, I would beg the House to remember what I did say on that occasion, and compare it with the newspaper extracts which the hon. Gentleman has just read. The noble Lord the Member for Lynn (Lord G. Bentinck) charged me with a lavish expenditure of money at the South Notts election, and said that the tenant farmers had defeated me in the contest in spite of that lavish expenditure; and those very words, "a lavish expenditure of money," occur in the speech which the hon. Member himself read from a report in a local paper. So far as I recollect, I did not say last Friday that the hon. Member had charged me directly with bribery, though I have now no hesitation in asserting that he did so charge me; but I do not see a very broad distinction between charging bribery upon an individual, and charging it upon the party by whom he is supported, because, practically, the hon. Member will find, before he has been much longer a Member of the House, that, generally speaking, friends are not so very
 420 421
 LORD BROOKE  said, he intended to give his vote against the measure of the right hon. Baronet, and he must contend that on the first showing of it the principles involved in it were such as to well warrant the most strenuous opposition on the part of hon. Members in that House. The present measure was proposed as an experiment; but he considered that the Government were not justified in trying experiments which might be attended with the most injurious and disastrous effects. It was an old saying that a man's character might be known from the company with which he associated; and applying this test to the First Lord of the Treasury, with reference to the present measure, he found that his coadjutors in its support in this country were men of the most extreme opinions; and in Ireland its most strenuous advocates might be found among those who were clamorous for a repeal of the Union. He did not attribute to the right hon. Baronet any sympathy with the extreme opinions of these persons; but he regretted to see the right hon. Gentleman co-operating with such individuals in promoting measures, the success of which they believed would enable them to carry out their own extreme principles. The right hon. Home Secretary had said that one great object of this measure was to prevent fluctuations in price; but between 1770 and 1790, the fluctuations in the price of wheat had been much more considerable than under the present system of Corn Laws. It could not, therefore, be said with justice that the present Corn Laws had been the cause of this fluctuation. He would give his hearty opposition to the Bill, which he believed would most injuriously affect the interests of landlords, tenants, and all persons employed in agricultural pursuits.
 CAPTAIN VYSE  considered it due to his constituents to give expression to their opinions on this most important question. He must say that his opinion of the fallacy of free-trade principles had been strongly confirmed by the observations which, in the course of this debate, had fallen from several hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House. They had been told by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government that the reason for introducing this measure was the state of Ireland; and he (Captain Vyse) had heard no other reason assigned for its introduction. Now, he believed there were proofs enough, for
 455
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, four months had now elapsed since those measures had been introduced, and he had waited patiently in the expectation that Her Majesty's Ministers would have given some other reason for bringing them into that House, than those which had been successfully combated by those very Gentlemen, when propositions of a similar nature emanated from hon. Gentlemen who usually sat on the other side of the House. He had expected that some reason would have been given for the change which had come over the minds of those right hon. Gentlemen, and which should induce them to falsify all their professions, to abandon all their former opinions, and cause them to turn renegades to those opinions, the free expression of which had obtained them their seats. He had seen nothing happen during any month of the present year which could induce him to say that the right hon. Gentlemen had been wrong in the whole of their anterior policy upon the Corn Laws. Undoubtedly they had raised the cry of famine in Ireland, knowing well that no Gentleman in that House could hear that cry without feeling a deep sympathy for those who were labouring under the pressure of want; but he did not think that they had successfully proved that case. Their defence of the measure—a measure which was wholly uncalled for—was full of inconsistencies. They had put it forth, that the supply of grain in this country had been for some years insufficient for the supply of the people. Why, the returns which were on the Table of the House proved that the supply of corn had been fully adequate to feed even our largely increasing population. Then they were told that our acres did not grow with the population. He maintained that in Canada and in Australia our acres grew far faster than the population—those, and other possessions of the Crown, were waiting to pour in their wheat into our markets, while, at the same time, they were ever
 450 451 452 "We have bound our Colonies by our laws, our regulations, our trade, our navigation, our manufactures, and everything; and how can we abandon
 453 454
 MR. HASTIE  thought all the arguments against this measure resolved themselves into apprehensions of a reduction of rents. He believed it might be calculated that the average price of corn for the next ten years would be 15 per cent less than the price during the last ten years. To ascertain, as far as practicable, how rents would be affected by the reduction of prices, it would be necessary to find the aggregate value of the whole agricultural produce of the kingdom from which rent was derived, and of which corn, including wheat, barley, oats, beans, and peas, formed part. The whole rental of the kingdom was estimated at 59,500,000 l.; l.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  rose to resume the Adjourned Debate, and remarked that it must be in the recollection of the House in what manner the debate had been terminated on the preceding night, by the speech of the hon. Member for Yorkshire—a speech characterized not less by soundness of reasoning and a natural eloquence inspired by the feelings of the speaker,
 422 "The wheat lands in the west are so rich in proper qualities, that probably for years no injurious effects of a constant succession of this crop need be apprehended; but in western New York, and perhaps in some of the earlier settled sections of Ohio, there is some danger, and the attention of the people has been called to the subject." 423 s. d. s. s. s. s. 424 "I cannot bring myself to doubt that Peel himself might be the man to propose the repeal of the Union." ["Hear, hear, hear,"  and a laugh. Laughter. Loud cries of Loud cries of "I thank you Conciliation Hall, I am obliged to you, Repeal Association; Maynooth ought to pray for you." 425 426 427 "In support of that opinion they, the opponents of the present system, have undoubtedly the high authority of Adam Smith and of Ricardo. Both these eminent writers assume that immediate convertibility into coin is all that is requisite to prevent the excessive issue of paper. It is no impeachment of their sagacity, if, in the progress which this science, like all other sciences, is making, there be reason to doubt the soundness of any particular opinion which they may have delivered. And it is our duty to disregard their authority, and to act on the conclusions of our own judgment, if either reason or experience convinces us that they are safer guides." s., l. "If we consider with what an increased weight the taxes on tea, sugar, malt, soap, candles, &c., would in this case bear on the labouring classes of society, and what proportion of their income all the active industrious middle orders of the State, as well as the higher orders, must pay, in assessed taxes and the various articles of custom and excise, the pressure will appear to be absolutely intolerable. Indeed, if the measure of value (meaning corn) were ready to fall as we have supposed, there is great reason to fear that the country would be absolutely unable to continue the payment of the present interest of the national debt." s., s., à fortiori 428 429 "The great cotton manufactures of this country, the great woollen manufactures, the great linen manufactures of this country, are sent abroad to compete in markets at a great distance from us; they are sent to the markets of America and of Asia to compete with the fabrics of other countries; we therefore want no protection for them in Sussex or in Lincolnshire. If that be the case, and if the great branches of our industry want no protection, they are not benefited by the trifling
 430 s. 431 432
 CAPTAIN POLHILL  thought the small farmers would be injuriously affected by the Government measure; and so strong had been his impression on that subject that he thought it necessary to bring under the notice of the House a clause designed for the relief of those tenant farmers. He was of opinion that if a Select Committee had been appointed, it would have been proved that the tenant farmers would be deeply injured by the passing of this measure. It was his intention to have moved the insertion of the clause he had mentioned; but he had learned from the Speaker that it was not competent for him to do so. He wished it to go forth to the country that he did not shrink from fulfilling his duty; but the rules of that House did not permit his doing so in the manner he wished. He entertained a strong sympathy for the class he had alluded to. The leading journal of the Empire, in one of its leading articles, did him the honour of combating his proposition; but in doing so used an argument which he thought had rather a tendency to confirm his opposition to the Bill, for it said that if a Committee for the relief of these small farmers were granted, there would be 300,000 applicants. He could not think the extent of the injury would be so great. If he thought 300,000 of his countrymen would be ruined by the measure, he would give 300,000 votes against it, if he had them. He was of opinion that the time was come when this great measure ought to be settled one way or another, for he believed there was a great stagnation in every department of commerce and agriculture from the present state of incertitude. If the Government measure did pass, he trusted that the Anti-Corn-Law League would be at once dissolved. He could not help expressing his admiration at the conduct of the noble Lord the Member for Lynn (Lord G. Bentinck), who although entering into the combat at a great disadvantage, had conducted himself with such ability, prudence, and integrity, as must win, for him the attachment of his own party and the respect of his opponents. He had never given a vote in the whole course of his life with more reluctance than the present for the third reading of this Bill; and he did so in order to allay the excitement which prevailed on the subject throughout the country.
 MR. G. PALMER  said, that there was never any measure introduced into the House more deserving their serious attention than the present; but he thought that if every Member were to vote according to
 433 s. 434
 MR. SEYMER  wished, as a representative of an agricultural district in this now no-longer-to-be agricultural country, to address a few words to the House. It had been stated by his hon. Colleague in the representation of Dorsetshire, that in those cases where the money wages of the labourers were 7 s. s. s. s. d. s. d. s. 456 457 à priori 458 459 460 461 462 463 novus homo, 464
 MR. BENETT  would not address himself
 435 "Millions, he might say, of men had collected together for the first time in certain limited spaces; millions—not skilled artisans, but men carrying on, in their several classes, some one particular branch of industry, which they practised from the first moment at which they could work, till they could work no longer—the great mass of them, in fact, just as unskilled as the rudest agricultural labourer. Thus large masses of unskilled, needy, impoverished labourers were collected together, subjected to terrible privations and discomforts from their very agglomeration; from the same cause almost at the mercy of their employers; and from the same cause ready and apt to combine for mischief. Was this a state of things which Parliament could regard with satisfaction? Was it a good state of things? Was it better for the working people? Was it better for the rest of the community? What was the physical condition of these unfortunate people thus collected together? Was it a satisfactory one? He would not go into any lengthened details, but let him simply ask the House to remember what had been shown to be the comparative duration of life in Manchester, for instance, and in the county of Wilts, an agricultural district. In Wiltshire, the average duration of life was thirty-three years; in Manchester, it
 436 437 438
 MR. PLUMPTRE  had heard nothing during this lengthened discussion to induce him to alter his opinion of the experiment that the right hon. Baronet proposed to try. The Government were taking a step which, so far from approving, he very much deplored, as being rash and perilous. By the policy they were pursuing, they had divided a great party, who had heretofore given the right hon. Baronet an honest and an independent support. The confidence of that large party was destroyed, the country was thrown into confusion, and how matters were to be settled it would be impossible to predict. He remembered in the year 1835, when the right hon. Baronet sat on the Opposition side of the House, and when the noble Lord the Member for London, who was then Minister of the Crown, had proposed his Tithe Commutation Act, the right hon. Baronet had stated that he would not object to that Act, because he considered that it would provide a due and adequate provision for the clergy. Now, the hon. Member for the North Riding of Yorkshire (Mr. Cayley) had last night delivered a speech which made a deep impression upon him (Mr. Plumptre), in the course of which he stated what his calculations were as to what the price of corn would be if this measure passed into a law. He called upon the House to recollect these calculations, and to consider the situation in which the clergy would be
 439 l. l., 440
 MR. HILDYARD  said: Sir, I am sorry to trespass upon the time of the House with a matter relating to myself; but I appeal to it to grant me its indulgence, while I take the first opportunity to answer a charge made against me in my absence by the noble Lord the Member for Falkirk (the Earl of Lincoln). For the particulars of it I am indebted entirely to newspaper reports; for since Thursday last I have been engaged in attending my duties in the yeomanry corps in the country; but, according to the reports, the noble Lord is stated to have said that I made an attack upon him on the hustings during the late election for South Notts, and imputed bribery to him. Now, in the strongest possible way in which the rules of the House will admit of its being done, I deny that I ever did so. I am aware it will be said, that this is only the assertion of one man against the assertion of another; but I think, when I read from the county paper, published at the time, the report of the proceedings at the election, the House will see that it bears out the assertion which I now make. I will not trouble the House with reading my speech, which I am quite certain could in no part be construed as hostile to the noble Lord, or imputing bribery to him, or making any charge against him; I will begin with the part of his speech which has reference to myself:—
 "Ask Mr. Hildyard, whether he did not at Sutton, the day before yesterday, while addressing a number of electors, say the victory would be his (Mr. Hildyard's) in spite of the lavish expenditure of the other party, and add that the latter had offered 30 l. "That I was perfectly ready to answer him; that, at Sutton, I did state that bribery was practised on the opposite side, and I maintain that still; that I did not believe that it was by the noble Lord, but by the Free Trade Committee at Nottingham; and I believe that still." 418 l. l., 419
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  said, the hon. Gentleman who had last addressed the House founded his arguments against the measure of the Government on the allegation of the immense fall which that measure would produce in agricultural produce. He (Mr. S. Crawford) wished to remind the hon. Gentleman, and the other hon. Members who took a similar course of argument, that their reasoning operated in two ways. They might show an injury to the agricultural interest by the great fall which would take place in the price of agricultural produce; but they, at the same time, taught the labouring classes the immense injury which had been done to them, and would be done to them, by holding up the price of provisions. It would impress upon that class the feeling which they had already, in a very strong degree, imbibed, that this was a landlord question, and not a question of the nation; and that by keeping up the price of provisions they were endeavouring to support the landed interest to the great injury of the masses of the community. If the hon. Gentleman's argument were correct, that the fall of provisions would be so great, was he not proving, by that very same argument, that the labouring classes would be in as great a degree benefited by that reduction of price? The hon. Gentleman who took that course of argument ought to reflect upon the injury which they might do to the interests of the great aristocracy of this country, by making the people of this country believe that the aristocracy of the country were hostile to their interests? What injury so great could be done to the aristocracy as to raise the opinion in the minds of the people that the aristocracy were the cause of the miseries they suffered? Therefore, he would impress upon those hon. Members that they ought not
 447 448 s. s. d. s., s. 449
 SIR J. WALSH  said, that the House must feel much obliged to the hon. Gentleman for the details which he had furnished, and which they had in vain sought from Her Majesty's Government. The hon. Gentleman was satisfied that the landed interest had no cause for apprehension; he
 441 442 s., s. s.; s.; s. s. s. s. s. d. s. d. 443 l. 444 445 446
 MR. BERNAL  contended, that it was highly inexpedient and improper to throw upon Members the responsibility of determining whether they would attend in that House or sit in Committees to which they had been summoned. The House ought, unquestionably, to make some rule or regulation on this subject, and not place individual Members in the odious and invidi-dious position of determining, by the exercise of their own discretion, whether they would attend that House or on Committee. It was certainly a matter of great delicacy and difficulty for a Member to absent himself from a Committee, and thereby cause great delay to public business, and perhaps an expenditure of four or five hundred pounds to parties who were interested in promoting or resisting railway or other Bills; but, on the other hand, a Member's duty to his constituency
 466
 MR. COWPER  said, that in the very able speech which his right hon. Friend had just made, the operatives who were concerned would find some source of gratification in consequence of the feeling he had shown for their moral welfare, and the general tone he had adopted, which he (Mr. Cowper) must say was different from that of many of the speeches which were previously delivered. He observed that the right hon. Gentleman had entirely abandoned that which heretofore was the strong ground urged against the Bill, namely, that it was a violation of principle. He put it entirely on two points—first, on the opinions held by the factory operatives; and, secondly, that it would act to their detriment—that their friends thought it would work to their disadvantage—and that it might give rise to foreign competition. He had endeavoured to look for information through channels the most authoritative on the subject, and he found that the great body of the operatives desired this Bill not only with the utmost ardour, but they desired this Bill more than any other legislative measure that was brought forward. He found that there were 880 petitions presented for this Bill; and against the Bill he found there were only four petitions, signed only by ninety-three signatures. So it stood on record that there were only ninety-three persons in the factory districts who would object to this law. And then in order still farther to bring out the opinions of the people, he took the pains of referring to the number of petitions in favour of the repeal of the Corn Laws. No person at that side of the House would doubt that the people of England did desire the repeal of the Corn Laws, and that they had attempted to show that by their petitions; but when he referred to
 485 "We beg to say, that on behalf of the parents of the children, and the young persons themselves, we are authorized to state that they are quite prepared to accept a reduction of the time of labour, and leave the value and the price of labour to be regulated and arranged between them and their employers." 486 487 "Every day something like two hours labour is required, if not directly imposed, by the Corn Laws and other restrictions on trade, and that these restrictions must be removed before any permanent reduction of the hours of labour can be effected." 488 "The repeal of the Corn Laws and other restrictive duties, whether a little sooner or a little later, may now be considered certain; and we think that a free trade, by giving larger and better markets and a steadier demand to the employer, and more constant employment and a more ample supply of the necessaries of life to the workpeople, will greatly facilitate the shortening of the hours of labour without reducing wages or profits." 489 490 491 492 493
 MR. DUNCAN  was understood to say, that one of the effects of limiting the hours of labour in factories would be the causing of a difference of 16 per cent against the English manufacturer in the foreign market. The question had hitherto been treated and discussed as a commercial one. In that light he viewed it. Could he view it in the same light as those Gentlemen who so warmly supported it, he should not only support a limitation to ten hours, but to even a shorter time; but he could not see it as they did. He was a disinterested party on it. He was neither a manufacturer nor a miller. He had examined the question calmly and deliberately; and he had come to the determination that the hours of labour ought not to be limited. He could not, therefore, give his support to the present attempt to place a limit to them. The hours of labour on the Continent, in many of the manufacturing districts, varied from seventy-two to eighty-four hours in the week, giving an average of about eighty. If the hours of labour in Great Britain were lessened, the manufacturers could not possibly compete with those of the Continent. If Germany could produce linen fabrics at a cheaper rate than Scotland—and the town which he had the honour to represent (Dundee) exported a large quantity of linen annually to the Continent—it could not be expected that the buyer would consider whether the article was the produce of a factory where the people worked fourteen hours a day or only ten hours. He would merely look to the quality of the fabric and its actual value, comparatively with other goods of a similar description in the market. As to the distress which had existed in the manufacturing districts in the years 1841 and 1842, he much feared that no limitation to the hours of labour would have either cured or prevented it; and when he saw at the present time districts in which, even at the present length of time occupied in factory labour, females were unable to earn more than 5 s. 521 s. s.,
 LORD J. MANNERS  said: A Gentleman who virtually guides the destinies, if not of the Empire, at least of the Cabinet, assured the House of Commons, a few days ago, that any farther deliberation by Parliament on a great question, with which his name will henceforth be connected, was useless and offensive, inasmuch as that question had been settled out of doors. I know not how that may be with respect to the Corn Laws; but if efforts the most persevering, conducted not only without the assistance of, but against the opposition, of enormous wealth—if the repeated and unanimous prayers of a toiling population—if the marked absence of anything approaching to a difference of opinion among the hundreds of thousands whose hopes are to be fulfilled or disappointed by us to-day—if all these are symptoms of a question settled out of doors; then, Sir, I think the
 497 498 499 ad misericordiam. 500 501 fiat justitia ruat cœlum "All see-saw between that and this, Now high, now low, now master now miss, And he himself one strange antithesis." 502 d. d. 503 504 "The working classes cannot any longer go on without government—without being actually guided and governed. England cannot subsist in peace till, by some means or other, guidance and government for them is found."
 MR. HINDLEY : That is, after the same gentleman had written in favou of the Ten Hours' Bill.
 MR. SPEAKER  begged leave to remind the hon. Member for Nottingham (Mr. Gisborne) that there was no question before the Chair. If the hon. Gentleman had given notice of his intention to propose any resolution in reference to this matter, the whole subject might have been formally discussed; but, in the absence of any such notice, the discussion was irregular. The hon. Member's attendance was not compulsory, and the better course was that he should act according to his own discretion.
 MR. SPEAKER : Does the hon. Member withdraw his Motion?
 MR. SPEAKER  put the Question that the debate be adjourned till Monday next, and declared that "the Ayes had it."
 MR. CARDWELL  was fully sensible of the disadvantages under which, in the anxiety which the House manifested to come to a conclusion, and after the speeches which had been heard, he ventured to trespass for a short time upon their patience. Representing, however, as he did a constituency which made him necessarily acquainted with the feelings entertained among all classes, both by masters and operatives, on this subject—having been, from local connexion, familiar to a certain extent, with its importance, and having given to it every attention, he did trust that he might be allowed to make a few remarks. He viewed the matter, he could assure the House, without any admixture whatever of personal bias, and with a sincere desire to accomplish one single end, that end being to discover, if possible—not
 528 529 530 531 "It is difficult to say whether we should most admire the benevolence, the confiding practical good sense, or the enlarged views of their own happiness and interest, evinced by the proprietors of this factory in their arrangements. If their example were generally followed, even in a limited degree, one could hardly over-estimate the sum of moral good and individual happiness that would result." 532 "In stating last year the want of education in the House of Commons, he had pointed out the reason why a great portion of the labouring population were unable to give that amount of education to their children which they themselves could wish. He then stated that the wages of many portions of the humbler classes were so small that, if they expended any of it in education, they could not obtain the comforts and clothing which were requisite for their decent appearance as men, and that in the lowest state of wages nearly the whole amount earned went to buy the necessary bread for the maintenance of themselves, their wives, and their children. He trusted that they would see, in the progress of events and the wisdom of the Legislature, that the labouring classes of this country would be enabled to have such a greater command of the necessaries of life, that they might be able to devote a larger portion of their earnings to the education of their children." 533 bonâ fide, 534 à priori;
 MR. BANKES  rose and attempted to address the House, amidst cries of "Divide!"
 MR. BANKES  again rose. He said he was in possession of the House, and he should occupy the short time that remained (it being now three quarters past five o'clock) by speaking upon the Motion now made, that the debate be now adjourned, for the purpose of afterwards following it up by moving that it be resumed on Monday next. He was extremely sorry that an adjournment should now take place, and he regretted sincerely that it should have been occasioned by the conduct which had been pursued by the hon. Members on the Treasury bench. There had been sufficient opportunity to-night for any Member on the Treasury bench to have answered the arguments on the other side; but none had
 535
 MR. BANKES : No.
 MR. BANKES  said, he should take every opportunity which the forms of the House allowed to enable it to resume the debate upon this question on Monday next.
 MR. LABOUCHERE : There is one part of the speech of the hon. Gentleman who last sat down in which I am happy to express my entire concurrence. I mean in the wish he gave utterance to, that the difficulties which beset this discussion may not be augmented, or embittered in any way, by recrimination on the part of those two great classes of the community that are equally important to its prosperity and wealth: I mean those engaged in the occupations of agriculture, and those engaged in the occupations of commerce. I have regretted that of late years so much of that kind of recrimination has been heard within these walls; and I confess that one of the advantages which I anticipate from those commercial measures which have lately occupied the attention of the House—if they be carried into law—is, that they will have the effect of preventing Englishmen
 474 475 476 477 "That owing to the Factories Act virtually excluding children under thirteen years of age from working in mills where the machinery is propelled by steam power, many children that would otherwise work in factories find their way into the business of fustian cutting, at nine and intermediate ages; and thus this necessary and humane measure is in these cases not only rendered inoperative, but even injurious, as in the business of fustian cutting the children are longer, later, harder worked than they possibly could be in factories, if no such laws were in existence." "That the factory law should be extended to fustian cutting shops, and that a legal functionary, appointed by the Government, should become, as it were, the guardian of the law, to receive informations and undertake prosecutions." 478 "My brother tried the reduction of the usual time to eleven hours for some weeks without re-
 479
 MR. LABOUCHERE : So much the more important the testimony. Mr. Horner stated in his Report—
 "I have made some calculations as to the probable reduction of wages, and of the whole loss that would be thrown on the operatives. I make the amount, in the case of eleven hours a day to be 13 per cent; and in the case of ten hours a day, 25 per cent, at the present average rate of wages." 480 481 "We trust that the voluntary reduction of the hours of labour on our part will be met by a readiness on the part of our workpeople to perform their share also in a cheerful endeavour to make their labour more valuable to their employers when their hours of work are shortened. This is the more necessary in a manufactory such as ours, where the work is generally not paid by the
 482 483 484
 MR. LABOUCHERE : Within the last three months.
 MR. COLQUHOUN  said, he was anxious to explain the considerations which prevailed with him in inducing him to give his support to the Motion that the Bill originally introduced by Lord Ashley, and now, in the absence of that noble Lord, brought forward by his Friend the hon. Member for Oldham, be read a second time. Before doing so, however, he must be allowed to express the surprise with which he had listened to a statement made by his Friend the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department on the last day that this measure was under discussion, to the effect that the House had never pronounced any opinion in favour of the Ten Hours' Bill. This statement struck him as extraordinary, and appeared to him to be scarcely consistent with the facts of the case, for he had a distinct recollection that when Lord Ashley made a Motion by way of Amendment to a twelve hour clause, introduced by the right hon. Baronet himself into a former Bill, limiting the restriction to ten hours, the right hon. Baronet admitted, in almost as many words, that the decision at which the House on that occasion arrived was a formal affirmation of the principle of the Ten Hours' Bill. Whether the House were right or wrong in pronouncing that opinion, he would not just at that moment pause to consider; but that they had come formally and deliberately to a decision that it was desirable to abridge the hours of labour, in the manner proposed by Lord Ashley, was abso-
 467 468 469 470 471 472 s. d., s. d. s. d. s. d., s. d. d. l. s. l. s.; s. s., s. s. d. s. 473
 MR. DENNISTOUN  observed, that considering the circumstances under which the subject was brought before the House, one could scarcely approach it with anything like temper. He remembered, three years ago, when Lord Ashley introduced it to the House, it was just after four years of consecutive losses in trade; yet, notwithstanding that, the noble Lord proposed to legislate still further on the subject. The hon. Gentleman, who had that day first addressed the House, said, that if he conceived the passing of this measure
 494 l.; l., l.; l., l. s., s., s. s. The Times 495 "Allow me to communicate to you the result of an experiment which I made at my works last summer, as it appears to me to bear upon the question of the Ten Hours' Bill. Early last spring I applied to the directors of the Botanic Gardens here for forty transferable tickets for the use of the operatives in my employ, for which I paid ten guineas, becoming responsible at the same time for the respectable appearance and good conduct of those who might visit the gardens. These tickets I placed in the hands of the doorkeeper, with instructions to give them to such workers as were recommended each day by the managers. It was made known to all the workers that two or three of them out of each room or department would be allowed leave of absence on the afternoon of any day on application being made to the managers the day previous. The places of the absentees were to be supplied by extra hands got for the purpose, who of course were to receive the half day's pay. I conceived, by this arrangement, that the hours of labour would be reduced on the best and safest principle. It was optional on the part of the operatives whether they availed themselves of it or not. If they did avail themselves of it, it was only at the cost of half a day's wages. Instead of reducing their daily labour, it gave them about once a fortnight a half-day's holiday, which most prefer. The reduction of labour so obtained was not injurious to the employer, nor did it expose him to any prospective risk or loss, nor lessen his power of competing successfully with the spinning manufactories of other countries where the hours of labour are longer—in some countries much longer than in this, and where facilities are increasing. The experiment was a failure. The applications for leave of absence at first were numerous, but in a few weeks they ceased altogether. The great objection was the loss of the half-day's wages. And yet they were making tolerably good wages—the women from 8 s. s. 496 "Having had establishments both in Monte Video and Buenos Ayres for the last twenty-five years, we have had opportunities of knowing the large and continued imports into the markets of cotton goods from the United States of America, and to such an extent as, for a good many years past, to have compelled us to decline almost wholly the receiving of consignments of similar goods made in this country."
 MR. TRELAWNY  thought the exertions of Lord Ashley in the cause of factory labourers had not been entirely thrown away, though, undoubtedly, he had occa-
 505 en masse. 506 507 l. l., 508 509 510
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, that every
 524 Continued cries of 525 s., l.; 526 d. s. d. s. d. l., s. d. 527 l. d. d.; d.; d.; d.; s. per diem,
 MR. GISBORNE  said, that he had been summoned to attend on the Com-
 465
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  said, if ever there was unanimity in a great community on a question, it existed in the borough of Rochdale in favour of a Ten Hours' Bill. He did not know the sentiments of the great millowners; but he had not had any communication on their part asking him to oppose the Bill. He had presented petitions from Rochdale very numerously signed by the operatives in favour of the measure, from a public meeting held there, at which the head constable presided; from the clergy of that place, and also from the operatives of Belfast. There was a case in which protection was required for those who were not able to protect themselves. That protection, to a certain extent, involved an interference with the liberty of the population. But it must be borne in mind that the workers in factories had it not in their own power to choose their hours of labour; they could not lessen them, however great
 517 "Among the really poorer classes, the practice of administering opiates to children is universal, almost without an exception. The way it is done is this—the mother goes out to her work in the morning, leaving her child in charge of a woman, who cannot be troubled with it, or with another child, of perhaps ten years old. A dose of quietness' is therefore given to the child to prevent its being troublesome. The child thus drugged sleeps, perhaps, till dinner time; so, when the mother goes out again, the child receives another dose. Well, the mother and father come home at night quite fatigued, and as they must rise early to begin work for the day, they must sleep undisturbed by the child; so it is again drugged, and in this manner young children are often drugged three times a day. He says he sells in one week in retail alone about five gallons per week of 'quietness,' and half a gallon of Godfrey; the former preparation containing about 100 drops of lauda-
 518 "You may know at once a child accustomed to these drugs. It becomes thin; you feel nothing but bone; its eyes get sunken and fixed; its nose pinched. Such children look exactly like old weazened men and women. They sink off in a decline and die. I have often reprobated the practice to mothers; but their answer is, 'What are we to do; it is so very cross?" "The labouring population of this county has always supplied the largest contingencies to the armies. It furnished the strength of the army which fought at Flodden; and Cromwell, speaking of his Lancashire regiment, said finer soldiers were never seen in battle-field. The Guards, until lately, were largely recruited from Lancashire; but," Mr. Chadwick went on to say, "it was a matter of constant complaint to him, by the recruiting officers in the various districts of the county, that the sons are less tall than the fathers, and that the difficulty is constantly increasing of obtaining tall and able-bodied men." "He had been engaged in the recruiting service ten years. For ten recruits formerly got, he could now only get one, and that one was frequently rejected. He ascribed this to the circumstance that when persons go to work in factories early they do not grow to the proper size, have always some deformity, and are pale, sickly, and thin in flesh. The surgeon refuses them for being too thin, not being round chested, and not standing straight. In Rochdale there is almost no use staying. I have been only able to pick out thirty good-looking men for the last eighteen months, and out of those only one was passed by the surgeon for every four rejected." "Nearly twelve years' experience of the Factory
 519 "It is self-evident that there can be no substantial improvement in the moral and social condition of persons who, from thirteen years of age to the end of their physical capability of so working, are occupied in their trade 14½ hours of every day; viz., twelve hours actual work, an hour and three quarters for meals, and three quarters of an hour for going to the place of work and returning home, whether the employment be that of factory or any other; and that they are cut off from a reasonable enjoyment of life." 520
 SIR GEORGE GREY  was anxious to offer a few words upon the subject then before the House, for although he intended to vote on this occasion as he had voted in 1844 for the proposition of the noble Lord (Lord Ashley), he regretted to say that he could not support the present measure with the same confidence as those hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side who had expressed themselves so warmly in favour of the second reading. He felt that great weight and much consideration were due to the arguments and sentiments expressed, both by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and by his right hon. Friend the Member for Taunton. He thought that there were many hon. Gentlemen who were so carried away by their feelings of benevolence and humanity that they were apt to disregard the probable consequences of measures which would affect materially the commercial interests of the country, as well as those of the operative classes. On the other hand, he thought there had been an inclination rather to overrate those considerations, and to carry to too great an extent anticipations of danger involved in the proposed change. On the part of those who opposed the second reading, the arguments urged against the present Bill were very similar to those which had been formerly adduced against the factory law which was at present in operation. Fear of ruin to trade, and prognostics of the evil consequences which were inevitably to have followed, had then, as now, been urged. Judging by the reports of the inspectors of factories, as published from time to time, he could say with feelings of pleasure and satisfaction, that they had convincing proofs and unanswerable evidence that those predictions of evil had not been realized; and he thought that the refutation which time and experience had given to the predictions uttered upon the former occasion, justified him in treating with much less attention those prophecies which were uttered upon the present. Those arguments were in fact arguments against all interference of any kind whatsoever with the labour market. He could understand the argument that the market for labour should be free; but that was really not the question under discussion.
 522 "It is self-evident that there can be no substantial improvement amongst a population where, from thirteen years of age to the end of life, there is no relaxation from work, but where they are constantly occupied during fourteen hours and a half a day, twelve hours being employed in actual work, one hour and three-quarters at meals, and three-quarters of an hour being occupied in going to and returning from home. They are, in fact, cut off from all reasonable enjoyment of life." 523
 SIR GEORGE GREY  thought that hon. Members should be permitted to exercise their own discretion as to whether they would attend on Committees or in that House. No doubt much difficulty and perplexity must arise to honourable Members when that House and the Committees were sitting concomitantly; but the best plan was for Members to act according to the best discretion in making a selection. Looking at the great importance of the question to be debated to-day, he did not think that any hon. Member could be censured if, when put to the alternative, he preferred attending in the House to sitting in a Committee. The better course would have been for the Committee, perhaps, to have adjourned over.
 MR. WARD  had no objection to leave the Motion of adjournment in the hands of the hon. Member.
 MR. WARD  moved that the debate be adjourned.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said: Sir, I rise to explain, in consequence of what has just fallen from the hon. Member for the University of Oxford. First, with regard to the late Sir R. Peel. The fact is, that while I was arguing on a former occasion, that Sir R. Peel's Act had not sanctioned any interference beyond twelve hours, the hon. Member for Oldham interrupted me across the Table, and referred to the Bill as first introduced by the late Sir R. Peel; and I am not sure whether he did not refer to the late Sir R. Peel's speech also. I then stated expressly that I alluded to the Act of Sir R. Peel as it existed on the Statute-book. Of course, I am not about to dispute what is notorious to the world, from its being published in the debates, that Sir R. Peel originally proposed a greater interference than that which was ultimately carried into effect in his Bill. Then, as to the last point, namely, my statement that this House had never by its vote sanctioned a Ten Hours' Bill; let me call the attention of the House to the facts as they stood on the 15th of March, 1844. The Bill of the Government was discussed; and in that Bill the Government proposed that the definition of "night" should be from eight in the evening till six in the morning. Lord Ashley, on the other hand, proposed that night should be defined to be from six in the evening to six in the morning; and I admit that that proposition was made by a private arrangement with the noble Lord, and I said virtually it would be a discussion of the ten hours' principle, as contradistinguished from twelve hours. The noble Lord succeeded in striking out the
 516
 SIR ROBERT INGLIS  said, he agreed in the sentiment expressed by the hon. Member who had just addressed them, as to the definition of political principle. He agreed that political principle was an induction from facts, and that in this it differed from religious and moral principle, which was derived from revelation. He would admit,
 511 Hansard "And that the duration of their labour should be limited to twelve hours and a half per diem, including the time for education and meals, which would leave ten hours for laborious employment." 512 Hansard, "From and after the 15th of April, 1816, no person being under the age of eighteen years shall be employed in any such mill, manufactory, or building, for more than 10½ hours each day." 513 514 in formâ pauperum 515
 SIR R. PEEL  said, besides the Corn Bill, it was of the utmost importance to proceed with the Tariff, and with other most important Government measures; but if the House considered this a discussion of such importance, he would fix upon as early a day as he could, but it was impossible to fix upon Monday next.
 LORD MORPETH : When was that?
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he was at a loss to understand upon what his hon. and learned Friend founded his argument for a Select Committee; because his observations had been entirely directed against the officer and the magistrate—upon which they were all agreed—his hon. Friend, the Secretary for the Treasury, having distinctly expressed the disapprobation of the Government as to the conduct of that officer; but his hon. and learned Friend seemed to desire that a Committee should be appointed to decide whether a suspension of three years was a sufficient punishment for the misconduct of the officer. With respect to the anonymous letter, his hon. and learned Friend's experience no doubt agreed with his own, that many gross but subtle and secret frauds had been discovered through such a medium; and if the revenue was to be protected, that kind of information must be sometimes acted upon, guardedly and cautiously, he admitted; but so the Commissioners had acted, for they had
 546 ab initio, 547
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that whatever it might be their pleasure to do on the question submitted to them, it was not for him to determine. It was sufficient for him to satisfy his own mind, from the discussion that evening, that there was not any sufficient ground for inquiry; in fact, there appeared to be nothing into which the House had to inquire. He was sorry to see many persons then present who had not the benefit of hearing the whole of this case as it had been detailed in the different speeches that had been made, both on the one side and the other, because there were many who would not be enabled to form that correct opinion of the circumstances of the case which an attention to the earlier portion of the case would have enabled them to form. An hon. Member said, that this was not the case of a poor man. He was glad that it was not. They charged the Excise with oppressive conduct, merely because an inferior officer acted in a way which all condemned, and which that Board had marked their sense of by suspending this officer; he could not conceive, therefore, what there was to enlist party feeling, or to justify the House in instituting an inquiry. As for the character of Mr. Smith, by whom had it been brought before the House? Not by his hon. and learned Friend, but by the hon. Member who had opened the discussion. But even the hon. and learned Member for Worcester said that he would not defend the discretion with which Mr. Smith had acted. The hon. Member who spoke last said, that there should be inquiry because imputations had been raised against Mr. Smith. Now, the only charges against that gentleman had arisen out of the substance of the letters which he had chosen to write. The Excise did not defend the conduct of the officer, but distinctly stated that his conduct was improper, and no Member of the Government had said anything in palliation of it. What, then, was there to inquire into? Was it the character of Mr. Smith, with the view to his defence; or was it into the constitution or the proceedings of the Board of Excise? Did hon. Members think that the punishment of the man was not sufficiently se-
 552 553
 MR. H. HINDE  rose to correct some misapprehensions which the hon. Member for Bath had fallen into. The hon. Gentleman forgot that, long before the introduction of the Canada Corn Bill, that Colony had a material advantage over foreign countries in respect to the trade in corn. The hon. Member said, that the Gentlemen sitting around him (Mr. Hinde) were opposed to the relaxation of the duty on Canada corn; whereas the fact was, that they were among its most strenuous supporters. True, some of them opposed the Canada Corn Bill; but that was on the ground that the passing of that measure would open a door to the smuggling of corn into Canada from the United States. He and his Friends were by no means prepared to give the Canadas free trade with all the world; and he would ask Her Majesty's Government if they were prepared to do so? They had a right to know what were the sentiments of the Government with regard to the colonial system and the colonial policy of the country. And he hoped the House would compel the Government to answer this question—"What did they mean to do with the Colonies?" What did they expect to result from their present measures as far as the poor Colonies were concerned? And what did they think would be the value of those Colonies? The hon. Member for Bath said, "It is true our exports to Canada are very large, but Canada is only the means by which we introduce these exports into the United States." He (Mr. Hinde) did not care one farthing what became of our exports, so that we had Canada as the means either of consuming them herself, or of introducing them to the States. But what would become of this trade for our exports, if the measures of the Government had the effect of depriving Canada and ourselves of the means of introducing them into the United States? He begged the House and the Government, therefore, to pause and consider the effect which their measures were likely to have on the Canadas and our Colonies generally. Her Majesty's Government had boasted, and they certainly had some ground for the boast, that they had the support of the
 576
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said: It was, Sir, my intention and wish to have a discussion this evening, on the question of the Canadian Colonies, in the present alarming state of those Colonies. Under any circumstances, considering that the trade of this country with Canada equals three-eighths of the entire trade with America, and considering that the shipping interest engaged in the trade with the North American Colonies equals one-sixth of the whole
 554 "The last intelligence from the mother country indicates a most important change in the commercial policy of the Empire. I had previously taken occasion to press upon Her Majesty's Government a due consideration of the effect that any contemplated alteration might have on the interests of Canada. But until we have a fuller expo-
 555 "In these and the various other subjects affecting the prosperity of Canada, which may occupy you, I offer my hearty co-operation; and I earnestly trust, under the direction of an all-wise Providence, that we shall be enabled to pursue a course calculated to promote the best interests and to foster the rising growth of this rapidly advancing Colony." "He (Mr. Workman) believed that the mercantile class of Canada were in a very undecided state of mind at the present moment. The proposed measures of Sir Robert Peel, although men of ordinary penetration could not for some time back have failed to foresee their arrival, had taken many of our community by surprise. We were in the same condition as a man suddenly precipitated from a lofty eminence—we were labouring under concussion of the brain." "Serious derangements in our fiscal resources could not fail to result from the operation of Sir R. Peel's new Tariff. Many articles at present imported into this province yield large duties, levied under our imperial customs' law, which were intended to act as protections to British interests.
 556 "He implored those gentlemen to be very careful in the promulgation of their opinions or apprehensions. We should not forget that the province owes a debt of three millions sterling." "He could not but think that the mother country, at any rate, should make us a present of the public works. This would be no more than justice, after having deprived us of the power of obtaining a protective revenue." "The operation of the protection law had been most destructive to the interests of the carrying and milling trades of Canada; and now that the differential duty in our favour in the mother country was about to be removed, we should find that the trade in Western States' produce would leave our waters altogether. He knew not what causes to assign for their prosperity, unless their superior activity and enterprise, and probably their superior institutions." 557 "He did hope, however, that the commercial class would maturely weigh all the consequences which must result from the substitution of the United States markets for those of the mother country. It would be impossible but that such a change in our commercial relations would very soon bring about a change in all our other relations. Our interests would cease to be identified with the interests of the parent State: our mental associations would assume new forms; our customs, and laws, ay, and our institutions too, would be assimilated to those of the people with whom we cultivated mercantile relations. There was a time, the hon. Gentleman said, when he believed that patriotism had no connexion with self-interest; but he had lived long enough to change his opinion on that subject; and he did think that loyalty had some relation to pecuniary considerations. If, however, by a course of imperial policy, over which the people of Canada can exert no possible controul, they are forced into a new sphere of social and political attraction, attraction, they are not the culpable party." Weekly Herald New York Weekly Herald "The people of Lower Canada take a deep interest in the proposed changes in the Corn Laws of Great Britain, and the correspondence that has taken place between the Governor General of Canada and the Secretary of the British Colonies in relation to the subject. The latest despatches from the Colonial Secretary say that the Canadas will receive some advantages from the Government, placing her products above those of other countries, and some facilities in carrying on a trade in bread-stuffs with the United Kingdom, that will enable her to enter into competition with the Western States. The Secretary considers some of these advantages and facilities are already enjoyed in the number and extent of the public works of
 558 "If these are all the advantages Canada enjoys, or is likely to enjoy, in her trade with the mother country, we must confess they are very limited, and of very little value. They are not considered advantages by the people of Canada, and only, in fact, exist in the mind of the Colonial Secretary. We have shown by the publication of a series of tables, that flour produced in Upper Canada can be landed in Liverpool, notwithstanding the existing differential duties, cheaper than it can go by the way of Montreal and Quebec. We have also shown, that under our drawback law, nearly every description of foreign merchandise can be landed at the numerous lake ports in Upper Canada, by the way of New York, cheaper than  viâ. 559 l.; l. Weekly Herald "The Secretary considers, also, that 'the shipping of British North America has many advantages over that of the United States in the competition for freights, as it is constructed at less expense and navigated with equal efficiency.'" New York Herald "This is a mistake fully as unfortunate as the others; and if the people of Lower Canada are to depend upon these advantages, which the British Government appears to attach so much importance to, we fear her foreign trade, particularly with the United Kingdom, will not be much increased or improved by the commercial system of Sir Robert Peel. Those intimately acquainted with the extent of our internal improvements, with the rapid increase realized every year in facilities of communication, and with the steady,
 560 New York Herald, "The intelligence from Canada is beginning to be of an extremely interesting character. On the receipt of the news of the proposed Tariff of Sir Robert Peel, considerable dissatisfaction was manifested in Canada. They say, that to abolish the duties on grain produced in the western parts of the United States, must materially affect the commercial interests of Canada, and facilitate its annexation to the United States." "It does not require any great sagacity or fore-sightedness to arrive at this conclusion, nor to perceive that it will be the means of hastening the annexation—a measure which time, and the moral effect of our laws and institutions, must finally consummate. But we account for the measure in this way. Peel felt the influence of a powerful pressure at home, which he was forced to go along with, as he could not stem; and hence he determined to carry out his new commercial system, even though it should hasten an event which he must inwardly deplore." 561 Times "The incorrectness of the above assertion will be apparent at once, from the fact that the value of the lumber exported from the St. Lawrence last year was about 800,000 l., l., s. d. l. s., l. s. d. 562 "That the introduction into the Imperial Parliament of measures, the operation of which will immediately deprive the province of Canada of a great portion, and at no distant period, of all the protection her produce now enjoys in the markets of the United Kingdom, should be received by your petitioners with anxiety and alarm, cannot be a matter of surprise. "Convinced as your petitioners are of the desire of Her Majesty's Government to encourage the commerce of the colonial possessions in North America, and promote the welfare of Her Majesty's subjects therein, and convinced also that any legislative measures prejudicial to the North American Colonies must be prejudicial to the shipping and other great interests of Great Britain, they beg respectfully to bring under your consideration certain suggestions which it appears to them would, if carried out, be beneficial to the Colonies and the Parent State, whose interests are inseparable. "That the question no doubt will suggest itself to you, whether the natural effect of this seductive law will not gradually, silently, and imperceptibly to themselves, wean the inclinations of the subjects of Great Britain from their true allegiance to the Parent State, and bias their minds in favour of a closer connection with a foreign country through which the transport of their merchandise and produce is encouraged, and a consequent more frequent intercourse with its inhabitants produced." s. 563 "Canada requires a protection, as compared with New York, of not less than 4 s. s. l. l. l. s., s. s. s. l. s. d. 564 Times, Times "Already we understand that his views upon the tariff, which might have given a permanent and pacific lustre to his administration, have been abandoned, or at least postponed, doubtless because they involve sacrifices of revenue which it is absolutely impossible to make." s. s. d. 565 l. d. l. Papers relative to Tariffs, "What harm hath the much-abused tariff of 1824 rendered to any of the people of the United States? Has one barrel of flour, one bushel of corn, one gallon of whiskey, one pound of tobacco or rice, one piece of timber, or ought else that we have for export, not been exported because of it? one pound less of cotton required of the planters, or one less of sugar consumed? Has our tonnage
 566 "Washington, in his Message, in the year 1789, recommended this—'Congress have repeatedly,' said he, 'and not without success, directed their attention to the encouragement of manufactures. The object is of too much consequence not to insure a continuance of their efforts in every way that shall appear eligible. Ought our country to remain dependent upon foreign supply, precarious, because liable to be interrupted? If the necessary article should, in this mode, cost more in time of peace, will not the security and independence thence arising form an ample compensation?' In his parting address, in reference to these matters, he says, 'that it is folly in one nation to look for disinterested favours from another: that it must pay with a portion of its independence for whatever it may accept under that character. There can be no greater error than to expect or calculate upon real favours from nation to nation; it is an illusion which experience must cure, which a just pride ought to discard.'" "In laying duties on imports in July, 1789, Congress, in reference to the preamble of the Act imposing them, declares those to be for the encouragement and protection of manufactures. The First Secretary (Hamilton), whose powerful mind seemed intuitively fully to comprehend every subject to which it bent its force, was the great advocate of American manufactures. In his celebrated report on this subject, presented to the House of Representatives in January, 1791, every argument was urged, and we may truly add, exhausted, in favour of the policy and expediency of protecting and encouraging this branch of domestic economy. The Act of 1789 (July 4) was advocated by Mr. Maddison, and runs thus:—'Whereas it is necessary for the support of the Government, for the discharge of the debts of the United States, and the encouragement and protection of manufactures, that duties be laid on goods and merchandise imported, &c.' In his Message to Congress, 8th of January, 1790, Washington says:—'A free people ought not only to be armed but disciplined; to which end a uniform and well-digested plan is requisite; and their safety and interest require that they should promote such manufactures as
 567 "To protect the manufactures adapted to our circumstances are the landmarks by which to guide ourselves in all our proceedings." "We have experienced, what we did not before believe, that there exists both profligacy and power enough to exclude us from the field of interchange with other nations, that to be independent for the comforts of life we must fabricate them ourselves. We must now place the manufacturer by the side of the agriculturist. The grand inquiry now is, shall we make our own comforts, or go without them, at the will of a foreign Power? He, therefore, who is against domestic manufactures, must be for reducing us either to a dependence upon that nation, or to be clothed in skins, and live like wild beasts in dens and caverns. I am proud to say I am not one of those. Experience has taught me that manufactures are now as necessary to our independence as to our comfort; and if those who quote me as of a different opinion will keep pace with me in purchasing nothing foreign, when an equivalent of domestic fabric can be obtained, without regard to difference of price, it will not be our fault if we do not have a supply at home equal to our demand, and wrest that weapon of distress from the hand which has so long wantonly wielded it." "The low condition of the woollen manufactures in this country at the commencement of the late contest at arms with Great Britain, was shown by the humiliating request preferred by the Secretary of War to Congress, that existing laws might be repealed so far as to allow the importation of 6,000 blankets for the Indian department. We believed then, and believe so still, that this suggestion was made that blankets might be obtained from Great Britain for the preservation of our soldiers when raised and marched to attack the British Colony of Canada. But the law was not repealed; and it will not be regarded as a wild speculation to express an opinion, that we lost more men by the want of woollen clothing and other supplies during the war than by battle and all other fair exposures to danger that attended the military life." 568 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that Her Majesty may be pleased to direct that Copies of the Governor General Earl Cathcart's Speech to the Legislative Assembly of the Canadas be laid before this House: "Of the Despatch, or Despatches, referred to in the Governor General's Speech as having been, and of any others since addressed to Her Majesty's Secretary of State for the Colonies, remonstrating against certain presumed changes in the Imperial Commercial Policy, or conveying to Her Majesty's Government information respecting the feelings of Her Majesty's Canadian Subjects in regard to the Commercial changes now under the consideration of the Imperial Legislature: "Of any Petition from the Quebec Board of Trade, addressed to Her Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for the Colonies, in the course of the present year, on the subject of apprehended changes in the Imperial Tariff affecting the produce of the Canadas."
 MR. HAWES  said, that he had entered the House that night strongly inclined to the opinion that it was not desirable that this matter should be submitted to an inquiry on the part of a Committee; but the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Worcester had placed the matter in so new an aspect, that he (Mr. Hawes) had completely changed his opinion. The Committee should be granted on public grounds, and the conduct of Mr. Smith might be put out of the question altogether. This much he would say, however, that Mr. Smith was a gentleman of the highest respectability, both in respect to his personal character and his family; and any prejudice against him grounded on the allusions in his letters to claims for money were quite unworthy, and ought to be summarily dismissed; for in his first letter to the Commissioners he expressly stated his intention to devote to charitable purposes any sums that he might demand from them. There were, he was sure, many facts connected with this case which were not before that House in the shape of documentary evidence, and he thought it highly probable that an investigation before a Committee would bring to light much information as yet in the shade. But he called for a Committee on other and more important grounds. Parliamentary inquiries had been instituted into the conduct of the Poor Law Commissioners on former occasions, and he could
 548
 MR. B. ESCOTT  was understood to say that the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), who had vindicated the Board of Excise at such length, had not made any allusion whatever to the conduct of the magistrate who, in granting the warrant upon which Mr. Smith's house was searched, had acted most illegally and unjustly. He begged to assure hon. Gentlemen who called for a division, that he was not going to discuss the question whether the receipt of an anonymous communication was a sufficient ground upon which the Board of Excise should act; but he would ask, whether such letter was a sufficient warrant for a magistrate to interfere, for in the warrant the magistrate was obliged to say that he had received sufficient, just, and reasonable grounds upon which to proceed. If such information were to be acted upon, there would be an end of all justice and equitable operation of those laws.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  must say, that he thought the hon. Member for Birmingham was fully justified in bringing forward this case. After the able statement of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Worcester, the case was fully before the House, or, at all events, the outlines of it; and there could not be a doubt that it was one of gross outrage and want of remedy. And was there, then, no reason for inquiry, as had been alleged?—no reason for inquiry into a system by which experienced and public officers were led into the commission of acts of this nature, and where Commissioners of Excise issued instructions on such vague authority and foundation solely as were to be found in an anonymous letter? Such conduct, adopted on such grounds, unquestionably demanded investigation; and though he thought that the hon. and learned Member for Worcester had done well in separating the case of Mr. Smith from the great constitutional principle involved in it, still, when they heard the learned Attorney General say, that the conduct of a gentleman who was a member of his own profession, had been such as was wholly unworthy that profession, he must say that that alone afforded a sufficient ground of justification for the House allowing that gentleman to explain his conduct. He hoped, therefore, that the House would consent to this inquiry, as he was afraid it was but one of many instances of abuse, against which, in the case of a poor man, the injured party would have no security.
 MR. CARDWELL  said that, as to the first ground of complaint, he had no inclination to defend or extenuate it. He fully admitted that there was no sufficient ground for the warrant against Mr. Smith, and that the mode of obtaining and executing it gave that gentleman just ground of complaint. The first proceeding was taken on an anonymous letter, when the Commissioners of Excise ordered an inquiry to be made. The supervisor, acting on unreasonable and unjustifiable suspicions, which were the more readily excited in consequence of the discovery of a still in a house situated in the same locality, obtained a
 542 l., l., l., l., l., 543
 MR. MUNTZ  was extremely gratified to find that the Government had not attempted to justify the conduct of the officer. No judge but one like Lord Mansfield would have decided that an officer was not liable to punishment for a malicious act. If a private house might be entered on the authority of an anonymous letter, or something else equally frivolous, there was an end to everything like the security of domestic life. If any person were to come into his house without a warrant, he had no hesitation in saying that he should break his head. Opening letters was bad enough, but invading a man's house without authority was far worse; and he should be ready to take the most summary way of turning out any one who attempted it. He thought the conduct of Mr. Smith had been very injudicious, to say the least of it; but that was no excuse for the conduct of the officer. His punishment should have been positive, and not negative. He should have been turned out of his office at least.
 MR. BRIGHT  thought it was desirable one or two facts should be stated to the House. The House ought to know that Mr. Smith was advised, by very high legal authority, to bring an action against the officer who entered his house; and he was advised also, that the damages he would recover would be certainly large. With regard to the charge of extortion, nothing could be more absolutely absurd, as connected with Mr. Toulmin Smith. There was not a gentleman acquainted with him who would not laugh at the idea of his asking 10 l. l. 549
 MR. ROEBUCK  rose to second the Motion. It could not be expected that at that hour (half-past 12 o'clock) any sufficient or complete answer could be given to the statistical speech of the noble Lord who had just sat down. He thought that, considering the manner in which the noble Lord had addressed the House, and the party opinions he had thought fit to express regarding a large portion of our colonial fellow subjects, it would have been a fairer way of dealing with the House if he had reserved his speech for the Corn Law discussion next day. If he had compressed his two speeches into one, he would have done great benefit to his own speech, and
 569 570 571 572 573 574
 MR. SPOONER  briefly replied; and was understood to implore the Government, for the sake of the petitioner and for the sake of the public, to accede to the Motion.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he was quite aware of the importance of the Corn Bill, but the House would recollect that this case had been three or four times on the Paper, without his being able to bring it on; and now that he had priority, he was resolved to proceed. Mr. Toulmin Smith, a man of high character, and placed in a respectable station in life, had been most
 540 541 "That a Select Committee be appointed to consider the Petitions of Mr. Toulmin Smith, and the Papers presented to the House relative to the case stated in those Petitions."
 MR. WAKLEY  urged the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Spooner) to postpone his Motion respecting Mr. Toulmin Smith, in order that the debate on the Corn Importation Bill might be resumed.
 MR. WAKLEY  would hear, with deep regret, that the House had decided not to inquire into the case which the hon. Member for Birmingham had brought forward. The Attorney General, who had addressed the House with legal tact and ingenuity, had diverted its attention from the main question before it, and endeavoured to narrow it and bring it down again to the grievance Mr. Smith had sustained. He would take him on that point, and did not wish for a moment to diverge from it.
 550 551
 SIR G. CLERK  rose and said, that he did not oppose the Motion, as his right hon. Friend had intimated to the noble Lord ten days ago, that he had no objection to it. His sole reason in rising now, was to add to the list of papers required, and to move for the despatches of the Colonial Secretary in reply to those for which the noble Lord had moved, and which, if produced, would tend to the elucidation of the question. Among them there was a despatch from the Secretary for the Colonies upon the subject of this duty of 3 s. s. "Copy of a Despatch from Mr. Secretary Glad-
 575 "Copy or Extract of a Despatch from Mr. Secretary Gladstone to the Earl Catheart, dated Downing Street, the 3rd day of February, 1846, No. 19. "Copy of a Despatch from Mr. Secretary Gladstone to the Earl Cathcart, dated Downing Street, the 4th day of May, 1846."
 SIR J. EASTHOPE  wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, with reference to the certificates that would be required from the promoters of railway projects, before their Bills would be entitled to a third reading in that House. The House would be aware that before the third reading of a Bill for the construction of a railway, the promoters were required to show that they had obtained the assent of a certain proportion of their subscribers assembled at a
 539
 SIR R. PEEL  said that the House was aware that a Railway Bill could not be read a third time unless three days previously there was lodged in the Private Bill Office a certificate, stating that at a public meeting of the scripholders a certain number of them, holding a certain amount of shares, had given their consent to the progress of the measure. The question which the hon. Baronet put, if he understood him correctly, was, whether, supposing that meeting to have taken place before the Bill had gone through Committee, and supposing important alterations to have been afterwards made in Committee, a fresh meeting and a fresh Committee would be necessary. He (Sir R. Peel) did not consider that a fresh meeting of scripholders would be required. The change of the character of a Bill in Committee was an alteration to which a company must be subject. If the alterations made in Committee were important, there was nothing to prevent the shareholders in the company from presenting a petition, stating that in consequence of the alterations which had been made they did not wish to proceed. He did not think, however, that there was any obligation upon the company to hold another meeting, and he did not think it desirable that it should be held.
 SIR T. WILDE  could not help thinking the course taken by his hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham (if he would allow
 544 545
 MR. W. MILES  vindicated the conduct of the magistrate, contending that on the face of the warrant there were sufficient grounds to justify the conduct of the magistrate. The hon. Gentleman read extracts from the warrant, stating that the magistrate had acted upon the information of Peterman, who alleged that he suspected Mr. Toulmin Smith had an illicit still concealed on his premises. Upon such information warrants were repeatedly issued from the police courts. He believed the magistrate had in this case acted perfectly right.
 The MARQUESS of WORCESTER  said: I assure the House I would not have intruded myself on its notice, if my constituents, who belong to the manufacturing as well as to the agricultural classes, did not express an earnest and almost unanimous desire that the measure should not pass. I have in my pocket, at this moment, a letter from a respectable person, which is a slight proof that what some of my hon. Friends had long since stated, that distress
 637 638 "If those who believe the farmers are for free trade or indifferent to it, were at Cirencester market last week, they would be speedily undeceived, for they would have heard many farmers cursing the Minister for his measures and for his double dealing."
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he should
 648 649 650 651
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, in rising to address the House after the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, I confess I should certainly feel considerable hesitation at the task I undertook if I thought the hon. Gentleman was equally successful in his commercial theories, and his agricultural views, as he is powerful in invective against the right hon. Gentleman the Minister of the Crown, whom he accuses of having deserted his party. But how great is the contrast—how wide the difference between the hon. Gentleman's talent for directing powerful invective against the Minister, and his success in proving that the Bill before the House is an injudicious, ill-judged measure! I can assure the House and the hon. Gentleman, however, that the business of to-night is, the question as to whether this Bill shall be read a third time, and not whether we shall pass a censure on the conduct of the First Minister of the Crown. I confess I feel much comfort in addressing the House after the hon. Gentleman; but I can promise him that this
 678 s. 679 680 s. "The noble Earl proposes that it is neither expedient nor necessary to maintain the present Corn Laws. Now, although I am distinctly of opinion that it is expedient, yet I wish to guard myself against being supposed to be determined always to maintain the existing laws. I never pledged myself to that, nor do I mean to do so. It is no subborn question of principle, and I will not pledge myself that various considerations of policy might not arise which would justify, if not render necessary, a different course." 681 s. 682 683 s. s. s.; 684 s. s. d.; s. d., s. s. 685 s. s. d. s., 686 Bene nati, bene vestiti, mediocriter docti; 687 688 689
 MR. VILLIERS  said, that the noble Lord had commenced his speech by an assertion somewhat presumptuous—that he and his party had a higher regard for religion
 718 719 720 721
 LORD G. BENTINCK : Sir, the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government
 710 l. 711 l. s. d. l., l. 712 l. Cries of l. l. l. 713 l. l. 714 s. "May I be cold before that dreadful day, Pressed by a load of monumental clay!" l., l., l. l. s. d. l., 715 l. s. d. l.; l., l. s.; s. 716 717
 MR. LAWSON  said, that he knew that in the agricultural district with which he was connected, whenever corn was not prosperous, then the districts invariably suffered and declined, both as regarded the manufacturers and agriculturists. In his part of the country there was the greatest fear and apprehension, and in fact a great panic existing, as to the present measures of the Government; and on no occasion before had he ever found such unanimity of sentiment amongst all classes, and of different politics, in thinking that that principle of protection to native industry ought to be upheld. He had had the honour of presenting petitions from fifty to sixty townships in his own neighbourhood, and from the borough which he represented, signed by persons of all classes, praying the House not to pass these measures, and he now rose for the purpose of vindicating the opinions therein expressed. Whatever alteration had taken place in the sentiments and opinions of those holding high offices in the Government of this
 647 s. s.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the Secretary of State, in the speech he made on the first night of this discussion, reminded Gentlemen sitting on these benches, and professing opinions favourable to the protection of the industry of their country, that in the various and prolonged discussions which, during late years have occurred with regard to great commercial changes, they have, nevertheless, found it necessary to abandon many of the opinions they professed, and to give up many of those dogmas which they previously upheld. Sir, I acknowledge the fact. I believe that to be the necessary result of all discussion; nor can I understand the use of public discussion at all, if it be not correct erroneous impressions; or if at the conclusion both parties are to take refuge in the cry, that
 652 653 654 s. d. s. d. s. d. 655 s. d. 656 657 Corn Law Catechism s. 658 s. l. 659 660 s. s. s. d. s. d. 661 "I will undertake to lay down, if secured a price of 18 s. s s., s. 662 s. "I hand you enclosed the prices per lb. of sound commmon congou tea, which is the kind most consumed in this country, from which you will be able to observe that there has been a great fall in the price since the year 1831." s. d. d. s. d.; s. d.; s. d.; s. d.; s. d.; s. d.; s. d. s. d.; 663 s. d.; d.; d.; d.; d. quasi d.; d.; d.; d.; d.; d.; d., d.; d.; d. d. s. s.; s. s.; s. s.; s. s.; s. s.; s. s.; 664 s. s. s. s. s. s.; s.; s. s. s. s. s. s. s. 665 s. 666 667 668 s. 669 s. d. 670 671 672 673 674 "Vectabor humeris tunc ego inimicis eques; Meæque terra cedet insolentiæ;" 675 676 677
 MR. DISRAELI : Mr. Speaker, the right hon. Gentleman having made an insinuation against me, which the cheer of his supporters opposite showed to me had conveyed a very erroneous impression, I think the House will feel that under these circumstance it is not presumptuous in me to ask a moment's attention to a subject so peculiarly personal as the insinuation of the right hon. Gentlemen. I understand the insinuation of the right hon. Gentleman, if it meant anything, to be this—that my opposition, or, as he called it, my envenomed opposition to him, was occasioned by my being disappointed of office. Now, having been for five years in opposition to the late Government, an active, though I well know not an influential, supporter of the right hon. Gentleman, and having been favoured by him with an acknowledgment of his sense of my slight services, I do not think there would have been anything dishonourable for me if, when the new Government was formed in 1841, I had been an applicant for office. It might have been in good taste or not, but at least there would have been nothing dishonourable; but I can assure the House nothing of the kind ever occurred. I never shall—it is totally foreign to my nature—make an application for any place. But in 1841, when the Government was formed—I am sorry to touch upon such a matter, but insinuations have been made by paragraphs in the newspapers, and now by charges in this House—I have never adverted to the subject, but when these
 708 709 Interruption.
 MR. SPEAKER : I had already put the question that "the Bill do pass" before the hon. Member rose. The Bill is now passed.
 MR. C. WOOD  said, he had hoped that at this period of the debate they should have heard the last of the personal attacks which had come from hon. Gentlemen opposite. He thought that the party to whom the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down belonged, might fairly claim the praise which the hon. Member had bestowed on the noble Lord the Member for London, namely, that the worse their position was, the more gallantry they displayed in defending it; but he thought, also, that the hon. Member might have found, in the nature of the position which they occupied, some reasonable grounds for doubting the soundness of the opinions which were held by its defenders. On this subject, however, he would say no more, because he was anxious, during the very short time in which he should detain the House, to state the main grounds on which he supported this measure. He pleaded guilty to the charge of being one of those who, without the experience of the last three years, and even without the experience of many years before, had arrived at the opinion that a protective system of Corn Laws was inexpedient and unjust. Long before this question assumed its present aspect — long before that body to whom so much credit was due for their exertions had organized the means for obtaining a repeal of the Corn Laws, he had expressed his opinion to his constituents, that the landlords of England had no right to protection. He never had wavered in his opinion, that a system of laws for enhancing
 625 l. l. l. l. l. l. l., 626 627 s. s. s. s. s. s. s., s. s. s. s. 628 l. l., l., l. l., l. s., l. s. l., l. l. s., l. l. l., l. s., l. s. s. l. l. s., l. s., l. 629
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that in reply to the question of the hon. Gentleman, he would confine himself to an explanation of the course which had been pursued. The Postmaster General being desirous to have a full investigation into the whole question connected with the sub-sorters, had considered it judicious that the inquiry should be conducted by gentlemen who were not connected with the Post Office department, and, therefore, he had appointed the solicitor of the Post Office to conduct the
 616
 MR. CARDWELL  moved that the House, at its rising, do adjourn to Monday.
 MR. E. YORKE  trusted the House would permit him to state the objections he entertained to the title which had been given to this Bill. ["Oh!" "Order!"  and great confusion. 727
 MR. E. YORKE  was understood to say, that, before the Bill passed, he was desirous of making a few remarks. ["Oh, oh!" "Order, order!"  and great confusion.
 MR. HUDSON  said, that after the fullest consideration, and after having listened most attentively to the arguments put forward upon that question, he felt bound to tell the House and the country that he still entertained the views he had formerly expressed, as to the impolicy of the measure then under their consideration. He agreed with the right hon. Baronet that the wages of labour did not always vary with the prices of wheat. He admitted that the price of labour, like that of every other article, was a question of competition. It was well known, that whenever we were threatened with large importations of foreign corn, capitalists became unusually cautious in affording accommodation to the public; and the consequence was that less money was spent in the payment of wages. He did not believe that the passing of the measure of the right hon. Baronet would put an end to that evil. He felt persuaded that the effect of the measure would be rather to diminish than to increase the demand for labour. In his opinion, therefore, it was peculiarly a labourer's question; it was a question of competition with the labour of foreign countries. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Halifax (Mr. C. Wood) had said that that had been argued as a question of rent. But he confessed that he should be ashamed to argue it as a question of rent. The great question at issue was, whether the cultivation of the land should be continued in this country, or whether we should depend on foreign supplies for our consumption. Holding, as he did, a strong opinion of the resources of the corn-producing countries of the Continent, and of their capability of growing corn at a much less expense than the cost of raising it in this country, he felt that the proposed change was one which would affect to a very considerable extent the demand for labour. If he were convinced that our agriculturists could compete on fair and equal terms with the agriculturists of foreign countries, he would not for one moment stand in the way of carrying that measure. But, as he felt assured that the tendency of the measure would be to throw large quantities of land in this country out
 633 l. 634 s. s. 635 s. d., s. d., s. d.; s. s. 636 l. l.
 MR. HUDSON : What I stated I believe was this: that there was no excitement in favour of the Bill—not that there was a deep feeling on the part of the agriculturists against it, but that there was no public excitement in its favour.
 MR. COLQUHOUN  said, after the full discussion the subject had received, he was aware he could add nothing new to the arguments advanced against the measure by his hon. Friends. He feared, however, that those arguments, able and powerful as they were, would not succeed in changing the resolution of the House. Though he could not alter the decision, still he was entitled to appeal to the House to consider whether the great change would really be advantageous to the country. The noble Lord the Member for Lynn had asked the right hon. Baronet as to the probable decrease of price which would be caused by the measure now under consideration; and the right hon. Baronet said he was not prepared to say that the price of wheat would fall lower than 35 s. s. d.
 MR. COLQUHOUN : It was, then, quite evident that the right hon. Baronet apprehended that the price of wheat under a system of free trade might fall as low as it was in 1835. But the circular of the Anti-Corn-Law League stated that wheat would be laid down at the doors of the
 617 s. 618 619 l. l., l. l. 620 621 622 623 624
 MR. HUME  wished to know when an opportunity would be given of discussing the merits of the Bills for granting Peerages to Lords Hardinge and Gough,
 614
 MR. M. GORE  wished to make a few remarks before this matter was finally settled by the House. He must first be allowed to say, that in some of the observations which had fallen from hon. Gentlemen who took a different view from that which he entertained, he fully concurred. He concurred with them in holding that no party had any right to complain that this matter had been so fully and maturely debated; and from the discussion which had taken place, one good effect had, he thought, arisen, that, whatever might be the opinions of individual Members as to the merits of the Bill, it proved to the country that those who moved in the higher circles did possess that candour and that superiority of intellect which under all circumstances, and at all times, he trusted they would maintain. The discreet and temperate way in which hon. Gentlemen had advocated the cause they had embraced, merited every commendation. He differed from many hon. Gentlemen who had spoken as to the apprehensions they entertained of the effect of this measure on the interests of agriculture. He should first allude to some remarks which had been made by a tenant-farmer who had gone to Russia a very great protectionist, and labouring under the impression that Russia and Prussia possessed an unlimited supply of corn. But after he had acquired experience, he became satisfied that the people possessed neither knowledge nor means to enable them so to conduct their agricultural operations as to inflict injury, by their competition, on the British farmer. That gentleman stated a variety of circumstances in corroboration of his opinion. Agricultural operations he described as being in a very primitive state, and the agricultural implements in use were of a very rude structure.
 "The consequence is," he observes, "that the lands, for want of strength to till them, look poverty-stricken and neglected, and must, under any circumstances, require an immense outlay of capital to improve them, independently of the energy and skill required to overcome the difficulties as regards the shortness of the season during which anything connected with the improvement of the soil can be carried on. The earth is closed against all cultivation for seven months of continued and severe winter. One month of the year may be divided into spring and autumn, and four months into extreme heat of summer." 640 "It may be thought that these pastures may be cultivated in case of a market for corn in England. But this cannot take place, since they are subject to violent snow storms, which drive everything before them. Such is the power of these hurricanes of wind and snow, that cattle, when these are approaching, if not prevented by the herdsmen, take fright and run into ravines, where they are smothered. Besides, these lands are subject to the visitation of locusts; and the effects of severe drought in the summer, increased by the continuous wet to which they are subject in the winter." 
 
 Bushels. 
 Wheat 84,832,272 
 Barley 4,161,501 
 Oats 123,071,341 
 Rye 18,645,567 
 Buckwheat 7,291,743 
 Indian corn 377,531,875 
 Total 615,515,302 "In reply to your inquiry, the exportation of flour from New Orleans is about 400,000 barrels in good years, and 200,000 barrels in ordinary years. No wheat is exported from the United States worth mention. The total average exportation per annum does not amount to 45,000 quarters for the last thirteen years, 1831 to 1843, both inclusive, and this is principally sent to Canada, and is a trade likely to increase in that quarter; but experience has proved that flour is the form in which the cereal product of America must be conveyed to Europe. The average exportation of flour for thirteen years does not quite reach 1,000,000 of barrels annually from all the States of the American Union collectively; it is 997,771 barrels exactly (1831 to 1843 inclusively). Of this quantity 225,000 barrels went on the average annually to Great Britain; 175,000 to British America, Canada, and Newfoundland; 135,000 to the British West Indies; 80,000 to Cuba; 170,000
 641 s. s. d. d. s. d. s. s. s. s. s. s. "The exportation from Dantzic in 1836 was
 642 schiffs abrechner, s. s. 643 "Arthur Young, in his  Annals of Agriculture, s. s. 
 
 Bushel of wheat £0 16 0 
 Ditto of malt 0 9 0 
 1 lb. of butter 0 1 0 
 1 lb. of cheese 0 0 4 
 Pennyworth of tobacco 0 0 1 
 £1 6 5 
 Suppose in 1801 his wages were 9 s. 0 d. 
 Suppose as a pauper, from rates 6 0 
 Total 15 0 So that to enable him to purchase the same quanties
 644 s., s. d. l. s. d. d. s., s. s. s. s. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. s. d. s. d. s. s. d. 645 646
 MR. PHILIP BENNET  said, he wished to take that opportunity of referring to a
 630 l. s. d. s. s. s. s., s. l. s. d. 631 s. l. s., s. s. l. s. d. s. l. s., s. s. s., s. s. s. s. s. d. s. s. s.
 MR. T. S. DUNCOMBE  seeing the hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Treasury in his place, wished to ask him a question with reference to inquiry into the Post Office abuses he had lately brought under the consideration of the House. He had been given to understand that the speech he made on a recent occasion had been placed in the hands of Mr. Peacock, the Solicitor to the Post Office, to inquire into the charges which it contained, notwithstanding it had been stated that they were groundless. He wished to know whether his information were correct or not. He understood, also, that some of the letter-carriers were taken before Mr. Peacock to be examined, touching those charges, but, upon asking for a pledge to be held harmless if they told the truth, it was refused. The inquiry was one which ought to be conducted in such a manner as to give satisfaction to the public. He wished, therefore, to know whether the hon. Gentleman would have any objection to produce the evidence which was taken, and to inform the House of the result of the inquiry.
 MR. HOGG  rose to ask leave to introduce two Bills to authorize the East India Company to grant annuities of 5,000 l. l.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that so far from throwing any obstacle in the way of their progress, he would do everything in his power to hasten them forward.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that considering Lord Gough had recently gone through four gallant battles, it was rather hard for the hon. Gentleman to say that his life
 615
 SIR R. PEEL  rose to explain: What he had said, and he thought proved, in speaking of the agricultural labourers was, that their wages in certain counties which he cited examples of, which with all the communications which had been received by the Government on the subject, he offered to place in the hands of honourable Gentlemen if they wished to be supplied—what he had said, was—and he had also laid upon the Table returns for the last thirty years, and from certain agricultural counties—that, he thought, proved what he said—that the wages of the agricultural labourer did not vary in a direct ratio with the price of corn. He was speaking then of agricultural labourers only, and he thought he had proved his assertion to be founded in fact. But in speaking of the
 632
 SIR R. PEEL : I beg leave to tell the hon. Gentleman what I did say. I was asked what I thought would have been the price of corn in 1835, supposing a free trade in grain had then existed. I said, "I am not prepared to admit that, suppposing for some years preceding there had been a free trade in grain, corn would have been below 39 s. d.
 SIR R. PEEL : That varies very little from the expressions I used, and entirely justifies the inference which I drew. If there be no excitement in favour of the Bill, and no strong feeling on the part of the agriculturists against it, it appears to me that this is not an unfavourable moment for the dispassionate consideration by Parliament of a subject otherwise calculated to promote excitement on the part of one class, and to cause great apprehension on the part of the other; and the hon. Member's statement is a strong confirmation of my belief that it is wise to undertake the settlement of this question when there is such absence of excitement, rather than to wait until a period when unfavourable harvests and depressed manufactures may have brought about a state of things which may render it less easy for you to exercise a dispassionate judgment on the matter. Sir, I do not rest my support of this Bill merely upon the temporary ground of scarcity in Ireland. I do not rest my snpport of the Bill upon that temporary scarcity; but I believe that scarcity left no alternative to us but to undertake the consideration of this question; and that consideration being necessary, I think that a permanent adjustment of the question is not only imperative, but the best policy for all concerned. And I repeat now that I have a firm belief that it is for the general benefit of all—for the best interests of the country, independent of the obligation imposed on us by temporary scarcity, it is for the general interests of the great body of the people that an arrangement should be made for a permanent removal of the restrictions upon the introduction of food. I will assign my reasons for that opinion. I take my facts from the opponents of this measure. I take the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire—a speech distinguished by all the ability and usual earnestness and research of the hon. Gentleman. We shall have no difference respecting our facts, for I shall take them from the opponents of the measure. The only question is as to the just inference to be drawn from these facts. The hon. Gentleman said—"Allowing that
 696 697 s. d., s. d.; d. s. s. s. s. 698 s. s. d.; s. s. d.; s. d. s. d. l. s. d. s.; 699 s.; s. d. s. 700 "Woodman, spare that tree!" "Ille et nefasto te posuit die * * Te, triste lignum, te caducum In domini caput immerentis"— s.; s. 701 s., 702 "The decrease of commitments in England," for the last three years, "has therefore been general, continued, and extensive, to a degree of which there is no recorded example in this kingdom." "In the sixth class, containing those offences which do not fall within the definitions of the foregoing classes"—violence to the person, and offences against property—"there is a total absence of commitments for seditious riots or sedition." 703 704 s. s.? 705 706 707
 SIR R. PEEL  said: Sir, I believe it is now nearly three months since I first proposed, as the organ of Her Majesty's Government, the measure which, I trust, is about to receive to-night the sanction of the House of Commons; and, considering the lapse of time—considering the frequent discussions—considering the anxiety of the people of this country that these debates should be brought to a close, I feel that I should be offering an insult to the House—I should be offering an insult to the country, if I were to condescend to bandy personalities upon such an occasion. Sir, I foresaw that the course which I have taken from a sense of public duty would expose me to serious sacrifices. I foresaw as its inevitable result, that I must forfeit friendships which I most highly valued—that I must interrupt political relations in which I felt a sincere pride; but the smallest of all the penalties which I anticipated were the continued venomous attacks of the Member for Shrewsbury. Sir, I will only say of that hon. Gentleman, that if he, after reviewing the whole of my public life—a life extending over thirty years previously to my accession to office in 1841—if he then entertained the opinion of me which he now professes; if he thought I was guilty of these petty larcenies from Mr. Horner and others, it is a little surprising that in the spring of 1841, after his long experience of my public career, he should have been prepared to give me his confidence. It is still more surprising that he should have been ready—as I think he was—to unite his fortunes with mine in office, thus implying the strongest proof which any public man can give of confidence in the honour and integrity of a Minister of the
 690 691 692 Interruption 693 694 695
 SIR R. PEEL : The hon. Gentleman has not correctly stated that which I said. I did not say that he was influenced in his opposition by personal motives. The words I said were these: "If he, reviewing my political life previously to 1841, which was of the duration of thirty years, really believed that I deserved the character he gave of me to-night, that then it was not right that in 1841 he should accept me as a leader, and not only accept me as a leader, but that he should have intimated to me that he was not unwilling to give that proof of confidence that would have been implied by the acceptance of office."
 MR. COLLETT  repeated that Silvester having declined the job, Hale procured somebody else to tempt Mrs. Bridger to purchase the game. It seemed to him part of the same transaction.
 The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER  did not wish to prolong the discussion on the subject of which his hon. Friend had spoken. He had heard his hon. Friend's statement with very considerable surprise, for he could not, any more than the worthy Alderman opposite, account for a Yorkshireman having resorted to so singular an expedient with his potatoes, unless he were to suppose it possible that they might have been intended as a screen for the conveyance of some smuggled article, a circumstance which would take away any wish he might have to examine his hon. Friend's correspondence. The observations of the noble Lord the Member for Lynn appeared to him to be directed to two points: one was, a general objection entertained by the noble Lord to the removal of customs duties as compared with excise duties; the other referred to the inexpediency of making any reduction of duty on articles introduced from countries which did not give us a corresponding advantage. In dealing with the financial part of the question, the noble Lord, he must say, did lay down some principles of finance which at least had the merit of being entirely new, but were of such a character that he thought there was no chance of seeing them carried into effect by any persons who might be responsible for the conduct of the public finances, unless, indeed, the noble Lord himself should be in a situation to induce the House to accede to principles as novel as those which he had announced. He must say, also, that the noble Lord had stated some principles applying to trade not less extraordinary than those he had recommended the House to adopt with respect to finance. But there was one consolation to those who had heard the noble Lord—the one part of his speech was an effectual answer to the other; so that those who heard the noble Lord had the advantage at once of hearing his objections, and of hearing them completely answered. The noble
 838 839 840 841 s., s., l. 842 843 s. d. s. s. l. 844
 MR. COLLETT  begged to repeat his question regarding a statement which had appeared in the  Hampshire Independent
 MR. WILLIAMS  said, he should certainly oppose the Motion of the hon. and gallant Gentleman. He would make no objection to the Bill before the House, but he should offer his decided opposition to the Amendment. He thought such Peerages ought to be granted for life, and also that the House of Commons ought to come to a decision to withhold any grants to future generations.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said: Sir, I rise to oppose the second reading of the Report on this measure, founded as it is on the principle of remitting duties of the customs instead of the excise. So long, Sir, as we levy the enormous amount which we derive from the excise, I think there is no good reason why we should remit these duties of customs, amounting to no less than 2,400,000 l., 820 l., l. ad valorem; l. l., d. l. l., 821 l. 822 ad valorem, s. s. s. s. d. s. s. 823 s., s. s. s. l. s. d. s. l. 824 l. 825 d. 826 827 828 s. 829 830 d.; s. d.; s. d. l  l. 831 s. d. s. d. l 832
 MR. LAWSON  said, it was with great reluctance he had agreed to follow the noble Lord,  longe sed proximus intervallo, 833 834 Benignitate Dei, et modestiâ hiemis rebus extremis subventum est. l. s. s. s. s. s.; 835 s.: s. s. s. l., l. l. Leeds Mercury Leeds Intelligencer, s. d. d. s. d. s. s. d. s., s. s. s. 836 "What will ennoble sots, or slaves, or cowards? Alas! not all the blood of all the Howards."
 SIR A. L. HAY  referred to the instances of Lord Beresford, Lord Lynedoch, and Lord Combermere, and called upon the House of Commons, in gratitude to services unequalled, to settle their annuity for three lives.
 SIR A. L. HAY  moved that the annuity to Viscount Hardinge be payable to him, during his life, irrespective of any grant by the East India Company.
 SIR A. L. HAY  said, the Bill as brought
 857
 MR. HAWES  was not prepared on that occasion to follow the hon. Member who had just spoken into a new discussion on the Corn Bill; neither was he prepared to go into the question as to whether they ought to repeal the excise duties, and impose other duties in lieu of them; but he did wish to call the attention of the noble Lord the Member for Lynn to one circumstance. In answer to the hon. Member who had just spoken, he would ask if there were such a distaste of this measure throughout the country as the hon. Member asserted there was, how did it happen that, affecting as the measure did (he meant the Customs duties measure then before them) so materially the commercial and manufacturing interests of the country, no one connected with the commercial or manufacturing interests had risen to support the views of the noble Lord? He inferred from that circumstance, that the mercantile interest did not regard the measure with distaste; but that, on the contrary, they believed it calculated to promote the general trade and the general interest of the country. He might add, that so far as his own experience went, the measure was highly acceptable to the country, and that the only thing unacceptable about it was the delay which it had encountered in that House. The evil effects of that delay could not be overrated. It was all very well to say, that in consequence of the Treasury Order the articles included in the Bill were practically free of duty; but when it was remembered that the parties who gave the bond required by the Treasury were still responsible for the duties, and when the House considered the number of transactions that were daily taking place in reference to those articles, he thought it would appreciate the uneasiness these parties felt when they believed that it was just possible the measure might not pass. Mr. Pitt had been claimed by the noble Lord the Member for Lynn as a
 848
 MR. SPEAKER  called the hon. Member to order.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  thought that the
 854 l.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  agreed fully with the hon. and gallant Officer opposite. Considering the services of the noble Lord, the pension was a very small one, and he was sorry to see the mean disposition shown by the House of Commons in attempting to hold back. The hon. Member for Coventry and his party were very fond of preaching economy, but they did not always practise what they preached. He was sorry that the pension was not more, and he was sure no Englishman would be found to object to it.
 MR. BANKES  complained that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had misrepresented the noble Lord the Member for Lynn, into whose mouth he first put a speech which that noble Lord had never delivered, and then addressed himself to the task of replying to it. The right hon. Gentleman would appear to have misconceived and misunderstood every proposition the noble Lord had submitted. But the protectionist party, sitting where they were, were placed in an unfortunate position for opposition, for they could reach but one ear of the Minister, and, as had been facetiously remarked, that ear was stuffed with cotton. The noble Lord had never, as the Chancellor of the Exchequer seemed to suppose, made any such proposition as that all excise duties should be
 845 s. d. d. s. 846 l., d. 847
 MR. BANKES  agreed with the hon. Member as to the rev. gentleman's good qualities; but a love of notoriety, in his opinion, counterbalanced them all.
 MR. BANKES  said, that it gave him pain to read the attack, neither should he wish to name the rev. gentleman its author. After some hesitation the hon. Gentleman proceed to read the letter. The writer stated (referring to Mr. Floyer) that the hon. Gentleman was one—
 "Whose words ought not to be too severely criticised; for from the low sum at which he is hired, one is bound to presume 'that there are some peculiar circumstances connected with him—'that he is not thoroughly up to his work, or something of that kind.'" "I have found the tenantry laying the blame on their own uncertain tenure of their farms, their heavy burdens, and heavy rents. The owners I generally find inclined to lay the blame on the grasping disposition of the tenantry, surplus population, and therefore overstocked labour market. The labourers themselves, to use their own phrase, say, 'The one shoots the bullets, the other casts,' which, translated, means that both alike do their best to screw them down to the lowest possible hire. It is not for me to say who is the culprit—I know the crime cries out aloud for justice—who did it I really cannot say; but I am inclined, if the farmer is accused, to regard the indictment of the landlord as 'an accessory after the fact' as only just."
 MR. BANKES  said: Sir, I rise for the purpose of mentioning a circumstance which I should have desired to bring forward at an earlier period, had it not been that I wished to avoid the accusation of attempting to interpose unnecessary delay in respect to the passing of the Corn Bill. For this reason alone I have delayed referring to a publication in one of the morning papers, which appears to me a direct violation of the privileges of the House. Sir, I am not at all desirous of being more critical than any other Members with respect to remarks on their speeches or votes. But I think that there is a considerable difference between these general observations on our public conduct or opinions, and personal attacks on the character of individual Members, such as are contained in a letter to which a signature is attached—the signature of a person of station and character. I advert to the letter of a clergyman which appeared the other day (I think Friday last) in the  Times. 816 817
 MR. HUDSON,  in addressing a few words on the subject of this measure, said, in reference to the silk question, that the mere consumption of a greater amount of the raw material was not the proper test of the state of those employed in that manufacture; but that the real test was, whether those employed were better paid for their labour. He contended that they were worse paid than previously. Again, in regard to what the Government was doing with timber, it would have been preferable to have reduced the excise duty on bricks; for, in the one case, the advantage went into the pockets of the foreigner, whilst, in the latter case, the benefit would be on the side of their own countrymen. He and his Friends around him objected to these measures of the Government because they were of an un-English character. They put, too, 10, and, in some instances, 15
 856
 MR. CURTEIS  said, he was an Englishman who would vote against the Amendment. When they knew that the Prime Minister was connected with the noble Lord by ties of the closest intimacy, he could not, without the deepest regret, perceive an attempt made in the House of Commons to urge the right hon. Baronet to go farther than he thought necessary. He supposed the hon. and gallant Officer was actuated by a certain  esprit de corps 858
 DR. BOWRING  said, it had been to him a source of the greatest gratification that the failure of the many attempts which had been made to coerce foreign Governments by a system of restrictions, menaces, and reprisals, had been succeeded by a wiser policy—that of conciliation and free trade. It was far better to welcome foreigners to our ports by inviting imports, than to alienate and repel them by hostile tariffs. The policy of peace was sure in the long run to be successful—and to be permanently and advantageously triumphant. The sagacious and amicable legislation of the present Government had already made its way to the friendly co-operation of many countries, and it would ere long influence all. If we welcomed imports we should force exports—if we bought from foreigners they would be compelled to buy of us. We should create advocates and allies in the countries where now we had only opponents and rivals. We should teach lessons that would everywhere be learned. Our reforms would reform the world. It was gratifying to look round and watch the effect—the already visible effect of the measures of the Ministry. They had found a response more or less audible in every part of the civilized world. That selfish policy which had been supposed to be the groundwork of the whole of our commercial system, was felt to be no longer reconcileable with the well-being—with the prosperity—with the augmented wealth of other nations. He had had the satisfaction of receiving from every quarter of the compass testimonials to the popularity of the right hon. Baronet. It was at last seen that we were giving practical assent to the lessons of political economy, which we had been accused of being willing to teach others, but which we neglected or refused to apply to ourselves. He would ask leave to read to the House a passage from an interesting and eloquent letter he had that day received from Elihu Burritt, than whom no man had been more instrumental in encouraging and strengthening the pacific spirit—the cultivation of friendly relations between his country and ours:—
 "When (he says) free trade shall be ushered in to sweep from the face of the earth the mountainous ranges of prejudice and nationality, which have made enemies of nations, there will be no questions of disputed territories to embitter them, no narrow-minded policy to feed international jealousy, or dam the currents of fraternal and commercial intercourse. The smallest nation
 851 "Moved by Mr. Glass, seconded by Mr. Holton—That, in order to render the application of free-trade principles thoroughly effectual, it is necessary to embrace them in all their comprehensiveness in this Colony; that protection and regulation in every form should be repudiated, and the commerce of the Colony approximated as nearly to perfect freedom as the exigencies of the public revenue will permit." 852 853 "The time is now matured for important commercial changes; Sir Robert Peel will succeed. The first nation in the world must act upon all others; and her policy, which is already bringing the various Italian Governments into co-operation, will, through the numerous channels of her political and social influences—by successful modifications of hostile tariffs—create a general tendency towards, and prepare a not distant triumph for, the universal emancipation of the world."
 MR. BRIGHT  remarked that the hon. Gentleman had begun with talking of a breach of privilege, and ended by stating to the House the substance of a private conversation between them, of which he must say that he had no recollection. He had, in fact, had many conversations with the hon. Gentleman since he became a Member of that House, and he had not anticipated that the substance of any of them would have been made the subject of a speech by the hon. Gentleman, especially when no notice had been given to him upon the subject. This much, however, he would admit. If he had not stated to the hon. Member what it was alleged he had said, he had certainly used, at all events, similar expressions in conversation with others—he had said that one reason why the attention of persons in Lancashire had been directed towards Dorsetshire was, because the noble Lord the late Member had made himself so busy as to the working
 818
 MR. BRIGHT  admired the very natural sympathy displayed by most hon. Members whenever a charge was made against a magistrate. Such was the fact, and he believed that no Member would venture to deny it. Whether Silvester's story were true or not, the hon. Member for Athlone (Mr. Collett) had done good service by calling attention to it, because the statement had appeared uncontradicted in a widely circulated paper. Sir C. Taylor had taken no steps to contradict the report; and it purported to be a correct account of what had passed in the justice-room. There was no doubt that Mrs. Bridger had been trapped into the purchase of the game, and no doubt that she had been convicted when Sir C. Taylor was present, though perhaps not on the bench. [Sir J. GRAHAM: The conviction was signed by Captain Lyon and Mr. Marden.] Sir C. Taylor was present at the time, and the whole circumstances seemed suspicious. The poor woman was sent to Winchester gaol for a month for buying game of an unlicensed person; but how was she to ascertain whether the person had or had not authority to sell game? There was hardly a Member of Parliament who, a few years ago, did not buy as much game as he wanted of salesmen who were not allowed to have it in their possession. The fact was in evidence before Committees of both Houses. The
 814
 ALDERMAN HUMPHERY  said, the hon. Member must have been wofully deceived to suppose that potatoes bought in Yorkshire at 88 s. s., s. s. l. l. l., 837
 MR. LEADER  thought the hon. Member had wandered from the question, which was whether Sir C. Taylor was guilty of what, if true, must be considered as an infamous act. Now, charges like that brought forward could not but inflict pain on those who were the subject of them. Sir C. Taylor was an old gentleman, nearly eighty years of age, and had been brought before the public by the hon. Member as having been guilty of an act which could not be considered otherwise than as highly disgraceful. He thought it was really too bad. He knew Sir C. Taylor, who spent the income of his estate in providing labour for his poorer neighbours, and in acts of charity, and was utterly incapable of anything like what the hon. Member for Athlone had attributed to him.
 MR. PLUMPTRE,  adverting to the charge which had been made against the protectionist party, of having delayed the measures of the Government, said that they were called upon to break down a system under which this country had long flourished; and if, therefore, instead of a few weeks, Parliament had been for the whole Session—nay, for the whole seven years of its duration, employed in discussing the measure, he would have been ready to pronounce the consumption of their time perfectly justifiable. The question was, whether they would sanction a system by which the commerce of this country would be ruined? One of his chief motives for addressing the House was in order to correct a misrepresentation connected with the produce of the county which he had the honour to represent. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, alluding to the subject of hops, said that the home producer would be placed by the Bill in a more favourable position than the foreign grower. He had had an opportunity of looking into the subject, particularly as connected with tithes. He found that in one parish the ordinary charge in lieu of tithes was 15 s. s. s. s. d., s. s., s. s. s., s. s. s. s. 850
 MR. HENLEY  censured the conduct of the Government in repealing taxes in deference to agitation. It was only those who made a noise about a tax who got it repealed. Turnpike-gates were not suppressed in Wales till Rebecca came; the gentlemen of the League had kicked up a row, and had got their object. The agriculturists wished for the repeal of the malt tax; but they repressed agitation instead of encouraging it, and, consequently, got no relief. This was not treating the agriculturists quite fairly. He would not enter into the great question whether customs or excise duties ought to be taken off; but when the Chancellor of the Exchequer said that they ought to be taken off equally, he begged to say that was not the course pursued; a much larger amount of customs than excise duties had always been removed: if excise duties were taken off they must do away with a great deal of patronage; but by repealing customs duties they were always told that not a single custom-house officer less would be required, and that was the reason why the latter duties were taken off, and not the former. To all Governments it was as natural as
 855 l.
 MR. HENLEY  said, it was a strange measure of justice that, because the East India Company did one thing, the House should do another. He thought, instead of granting a pension for a limited period to Viscount Hardinge, that a sum of money should be laid out for the purchase of land, which would cost no more to the country; whilst it would be a permanent advantage to the noble Lord and his family.
 MR. HUME  conceived that the principle on which the House acted was entirely erroneous. He had no objection to the House bestowing Peerages for life on deserving persons; but he did not see why pensions should be given to their descendants to support those titles. Why should the House, having once granted the money, propose to stop their hands because the East India Company came forward to give a grant also?
 MR. HUME  said, that the hon. Member opposite rose to complain of a breach of the privileges of the House. Now he wanted to know what the document constituting this alleged breach was, and who the individual was who wrote it? When a case of this kind was brought before the House they ought to be informed what the document was, where it appeared, and, indeed, placed in full possession of it.
 MR. BORTHWICK  said, the hon. Member observed that the manufacturing and commercial interests were not represented by any opposition in the House to the proposed measures. Need he remind the hon. Member for Lambeth that the place which the noble Lord (Lord G. Bentinck) near him represented was a commercial town. The noble Lord did not represent an agricultural constituency. But he would venture to say, that the Parliamentary history of this country had shown in neither House of the Legislature an hon. Member who had proved himself so worthy the gratitude and respect of the labouring classes of his fellow countrymen—a gratitude and respect which were freely recognized, as the noble Lord the Member for Lynn. And whether the noble Lord pressed his Motion to a division or not, it must be admitted that the principles upon which it was framed were broad, comprehensive, intelligible, and just. He contended that the principles upon which the present Bill was framed, of buying in the cheapest and selling in the dearest market, however they were applicable to private individuals, were not at all applicable so far as nations were concerned, in which a great variety of important interests were to be consulted. It was the duty of every nation to protect its own productions and industry from foreign competition; and he maintained that to compel the highly-taxed agriculturist of this country to enter into an unfair competition with the cheap labour of other countries, was an injustice which could not be defended. It was to relieve his countrymen from this grievous wrong that the noble Lord the Member for Lynn was di-
 849
 MR. P. SCROPE  had also the pleasure of being acquainted with Sir C. Taylor. He must say that he believed that great injustice had been done him on the present occasion. He agreed with the right hon. Baronet that the hon. Member for Athlone had departed from the question of which he had given notice, and had gone into a number of statements which it was impossible for any hon. Member to follow. With regard to Silvester, he knew that he had been convicted of horse-stealing, and he also knew that Hales was a most meritorious and excellent officer of the Hampshire force. Sir C. Taylor had been for thirty-four years a Member of that House, and for fifty years a magistrate, and the present was the first charge which had ever been brought against him—brought against him, too, on the evidence of a convicted horse-stealer.
 MR. WAKLEY  thought that some allowance ought really to be made for the rev. gentleman. He had probably either heard or read the debates in the House; and if so, he had had the most ample opportunities of studying personal attacks made against honour and character. Indeed, he feared that the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Bankes) had something to answer for in this respect.
 MR. CHRISTIE  was sure that the rev. gentleman alluded to would have no objection to have his name mentioned. He was a gentleman well known, and he believed much respected by all who knew him for his great benevolence. Of course it was
 819
 MR. CHRISTIE  begged to know from the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether he had recived any communication from the Poor Law Commissioners as to the steps pursued by them in inquiring into the case of the pauper, James Jervis, who had been committed, although 75 years of age, to prison with hard labour for 21 days, for refusing to pump at the Barrow-on-Soar Union workhouse; and also, what steps had been taken with regard to the female servant committed likewise to prison for being refractory?
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  replied, that he caused inquiries to be instituted into the case of the woman described as a husbandry servant, and the replies not having been satisfactory he had recommended that a Commissioner (a Queen's Counsel) should be sent down to inquire into the entire facts and report upon them. That gentleman had been sent; and until he had sent up his report, it would be impossible for him (Sir James Graham) to reply to the question. With regard to the case of the
 811
 SIR J. GRAHAM  reminded the House that when the question was formerly put to him, it related to an endeavour on the part of Hale, the policeman, to seduce Silvester to lay a trap, by inducing some person to purchase game. He (Sir James Graham) had, therefore, asked Sir Charles Taylor if there was any truth in the story; and by him he had been assured that it was utterly destitute of foundation. He had then called upon the magistrates who held the petty session at which the conviction took place to make their statement, and to accompany it by the evidence taken before them in the case. It would have
 812 813
 MR. HOGG  begged the hon. Gentleman not to suppose that he individually, or the House collectively, had anything to do with the grant of the East India Company. The grant was complete as it stood, and required no sanction from the Parliament. It was only necessary to have the sanction of the Crown, of the First Minister of the Crown, or of that Minister more immediately connected with India. The clause was introduced to restrict the operation of a prohibitory clause, which enacted that the Viscount Hardinge should not receive any addition to his salary as Governor General of India.
 SIR R. PEEL  trusted that on such a Bill as this there would be general unanimity exhibited. The Government had proposed that an annuity of 3,000 l. l. l.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  would wish the House exactly to understand the way in which the question stood. He could not take credit to himself at all for having made this proposition on account of the distress of the country. This country was undoubtedly rich enough to grant any amount of pension that might be considered advisable; but, looking back to the precedents when distinguished general officers had performed those services for which Peerages had been conferred, he found that the usual rule was to grant a pension of 2,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 859 l. l. l.
 MR. STAFFORD O'BRIEN  rose to put the question of which he had given notice regarding the production of agricultural statistics. During the present Parliament, he believed in the year 1844, the question of agricultural statistics had been brought before the House by the hon. Member for Manchester, who was supported by the hon. Member for North Lincolnshire, than whom perhaps a more experienced agriculturist did not occupy a seat in that House. The hon. Member for Manchester consented to withdraw his Motion on the understanding that Her Majesty's Government would take some steps to obtain an alteration in the mode of obtaining those statistics. He believed it was understood that the Government of that day was unfavourable to the course which the hon. Member for Manchester proposed to pursue; but still there was an impression prevailing that they would take the matter into consideration, and the hon. Member withdrew his Motion. The cultivators of the soil had nothing to fear from the fullest disclosures; and if the House had been in possession of better information the agricultural interest would have been able to make out even a more complete case against the Corn Bill than they had made. He believed that Government must begin any undertaking of the kind slowly, and by degrees, lest they should create jealousy and suspicion on the part of the farmers; as those farmers became more enlightened, the inquiries might be pushed farther, and not limited, as in the first instance, to mere matters regarding the quantity of land in cultivation, or the number of cattle fed upon it. He apprehended that the machinery of the new Highway Bill, now before Parliament, might be advantageously employed for the purpose. It was ever to be borne in mind that the House was unanimous as to the value of the information, and as to the propriety of obtaining it.
 MR. MILES  was anxious that Government should take up the matter with as little delay as possible, and recommended that at all events the Poor Law guardians should not be resorted to to procure information, which he apprehended could be better obtained by voluntary means.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  could not conceive anything more inconvenient or more irregular—anything more in violation of the spirit of our institutions than was contained in the speech of his noble Friend. His noble Friend proposed nothing less than an investigation into the grounds on which the Committee decided this case—and upon the evidence, and the propriety of being satisfied with that evidence which was brought before them. But what then became of the intention of the Legislature, that the determination of the Select Committee in such cases should be final to all intents and purposes, if it was competent, after that decision had been pronounced, for a Member of the House to get up and attack the decision of the Committee, and to call upon the House to entertain an argument upon the merits of the determination at which the Committee had arrived. As his noble Friend had led them astray, would the House allow him to follow him one moment; and first with regard to the observations he made about the lists. He asked whether the objection to Rockett's vote was on the lists? He was answered that it really was. But see how hard it would be upon the Committee, supposing there had been no specific objection, and that the name of Rockett had not been on the lists. The lists were not seen by the Committee; they had no opportunity of investigating whether the name of a voter was or was not upon the lists; they must rely entirely upon the opposing counsel. He had a right to object to any particular vote being objected to; and if the counsel did not object, the Committee had no right—in fact, they had no power—to investigate for themselves. Then his noble Friend said, "Why did not they call the poll-clerk?" Why, what had the Committee to do with the poll-clerk? They sat there to receive the evidence which was tendered by the parties. They could not give directions how the case was to be conducted; they must judge upon the evidence that was adduced before them; and it was not for the Committee to say to counsel, "You have better evidence behind; why do you not bring us the poll-clerk?" If the Committee had no reason to doubt the evidence which was laid before
 886 887
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  had been led to expect, from the nature of the
 892 893 894
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  moved, as an Amendment, the omission of all the words after "Romilly."
 MR. FOX MAULE  rose to ask (pursuant to the Notice he had given) for leave to bring in a Bill to enable Christian congregations in Scotland to obtain sites for places of worship, manses, and school-houses. He had given notice of his intention to introduce that measure for the relief of the grievances existing in Scotland, which were very considerable; but before opening his case he begged leave to present 115 petitions from various places in Scotland, in favour of it, and complaining of the grievances to which the petitioners were at present subjected. Having presented those petitions, he should observe that it had been his intention to have taken advantage of the position which he held, to lay a statement before the House of the motives by which he was actuated, and the reasons why he brought forward a measure of such importance, and one somewhat novel in its character. But inasmuch as he saw neither the Lord Advocate of Scotland nor the Secretary of State for the Home Department present, although they had had such full notion of his intention to introduce such a Bill, he took it for granted that they
 873
 MR. F. MAULE  had before said, he was ready and prepared to give a full explanation; but inasmuch as the absence of Her Majesty's Ministers had apparently given a tacit consent to the introduction of the measure, he was willing to reserve that explanation for a future stage. Her Majesty's Ministers having since entered the House, he was ready to suggest that he should be permitted to bring in the Bill without in the least degree committing any one to its principles, and that the discussion should be taken on the second reading.
 CAPTAIN FITZMAURICE  having suffered severely from the quarantine laws, was glad to hear that Government was about to reconsider the subject. The system was one which had inflicted serious injury on the trade of this country. He was at Gibraltar when the cholera broke out in England, and the consequence was that vessels arriving from Great Britain were obliged to go to Malta to ride quarantine, and then come back and land their cargoes at the rock, from eight to ten weeks being lost in the operation. He believed that the effects of the present quarantine law were to check the advance of science, literature, and commerce. Anything that could induce the different nations of Europe to establish the same period of quarantine for vessels coming from the same countries would be a very great advantage over the present system.
 LORD G. BENTINCK : My hon. and learned Friend, at the outset of his speech, thought proper to pass some strictures on the speech of my hon. Friend below me (Mr. Bankes), for the mode in which he had introduced his Motion before the House. I do not know what my hon. Friend could have done less, when he proposed that Rockett should be heard at the bar of this House, than to state the grounds on which he made so unusual a proposition; and my hon. Friend did not, as it appears to me, go at all out of his way, when he stated to the House the whole circumstances of the case—when he reminded the House of the oath which had been taken by the
 890 891
 LORD G. BENTINCK , as the subject under consideration referred to statistical details, wished to ask if some means could not be devised of procuring statistical details in regard to the manufactures of the country. It had been stated as a fact in that House that the home consumption of the cotton manufacture was one-eighth of the whole production of the country. Now, he thought that if accurate information could be obtained, the home consumption would be found to amount to two-thirds of the whole manufactures of the country.
 MR. B. ESCOTT  said, that the noble Lord the Member for Lynn would not have attacked the Committee as he had done if he had known the facts of the case; and, considering that the Committee were bound by oath to discharge their functions, he should have thought if the noble Lord had any complaint to make, it would have been made, not by insinuation, but by direct and straightforward accusation; but if the noble Lord had been in the habit of speaking from information, the House would not have heard from him so many long harangues as they had been favoured with during the last two months. However, the proceedings of the Committees had not been generally attacked; indeed, he did not know how they could be, by any one who had not been present, and who could know nothing of the proceedings except from a printed paper, of which he chose to read only such parts as suited him. At all events, no person could doubt that the present Member for Bridport was the proper representative of that town; for he thought that when his learned Friend Mr. Austin, representing the claimant of a seat in that House, threw up his brief, that was sufficient ground for any judicial tribunal to proceed upon. Every Member must desire that there should be a searching
 904
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that as the House had no better means of forming a judgment upon the question than the Election Committee who had already declined to entertain it, and as it would still be open to any elector of the borough, under the provisions of the Act 5 and 6 Vict. c. 2, to present a petition to the House, praying that a Committee, having power to examine upon oath, might be appointed to investigate the subject of bribery and compromise, he therefore declared himself with the Noes.
 MR. C. WOOD  believed he should, on the whole, best exercise his discretion by saying a few words upon this question; if he was wrong, he hoped the House would extend its indulgence to him. He did not intend—which would be wrong—to enter into a justification of the proceedings of the Committee; but he thought he should not transgress the limits of his duty by stating a few facts. He apprehended that
 902 903
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. Gentleman had fallen into an error, in reply to the Attorney General's argument. The hon. and learned Gentleman did not proceed on the assumption, that it was not right to make an inquiry into circumstances such as they were now discussing, when they were brought before the House; but his argument was, that Parliament had laid down a particular course for a strict and searching inquiry into transactions of this nature, and that it was not, therefore, expedient in this or similar cases to take upon themselves inquiries before an unsworn Committee into facts and circumstances with respect to which the law had provided the means of inquiry before a sworn tribunal. The hon. Gentleman said, "You have these facts before you, will you not inquire into them?" An hon. Member might come down and say, "I was present at the election of an hon. Member, when such and such scenes took place; and I call on you to have a Select Committee." This law was framed with reference to the very case to which the hon. Member had adverted; for it was immediately after inquiries, at the suggestion of Mr. Roebuck, that Lord John Russell introduced this measure, remarking on the inconvenience which resulted from conducting inquiries of that nature in the way in which they had been conducted. He laid
 899 bonâ fide
 MR. C. WOOD , as Chairman of the Committee, was anxious to make a few remarks to the House.
 MR. G. BANKES  rose to bring forward his Motion, that William Rockett have
 883 884 885 "That William Rockett have leave to state his case at the Bar of this House, with reference to the Bridport Election."
 MR. BANKES  said, that to deny that the hon. Member for Bridport was  de facto 905
 MR. HUDSON  observed, that those persons who might be favourable to the prosecution of a scheme against the desire of the minority of the shareholders, could, after the dissentients had withdrawn, reform themselves into a new company to carry out the project. He inclined to the opinion that every facility ought to be given to the minority to relieve themselves from future liability.
 MR. AGLIONBY  agreed with what had fallen from the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley), that it would have been a great advantage had the hon. Member for Halifax, the Chairman of the Committee, given his opinion on this question. He (Mr. Aglionoy) did not think that the Committee would be compromised or its functions interfered with; and the hon. Member would have spoken merely on his knowledge of the facts, and those facts would have guided the House in its decision. He could not see the grounds on which the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Attorney General) objected to the Amendment. What was there which could interfere with the functions of the Committee on the Motion "that the petition of William Rockett be referred to a Select Committee?" But the hon. and learned Gentleman objected to the concluding portions—"whether any compromise or arrangement was entered into by the parties to the petition;" and "whether, and to what extent, bribery and treating were practised at the last olection for the borough of Bridport?" The first was agreed to, the second and third were objected to; and the Attorney General said he objected to an inquiry in this way, because there was another mode; but he (Mr. Aglionby) said there was no other mode open to the House. It had been argued that the 5th and 6th Victoria, cap. 102, put an end to the functions and jurisdiction of the House in this matter; but this was a mistake. The provisions of that Act were entirely concurrent with the jurisdiction of that House. The Act must be construed by itself, and not by anything that might have fallen from its promoters; and the Act contained no words excluding the jurisdiction of the House. The first section gave power to the Committee, at
 901 a primâ facie primâ facie
 MR. LABOUCHERE  could not agree that the principal thing to be inquired into was, whether an injury had not been done to Mr. Rockett. There was another question, of far greater consequence—namely, whether a fraud had not been practised on the Committee of the House. There was a  primâ facie 910
 DR. BOWRING  moved, that—
 "An humble Address be presented to Her Majesty that She will be graciously pleased to direct that such Correspondence or Extracts on the subject of the Quarantine Laws as has taken place with foreign Governments since the last Returns to Parliament to be laid on, the Table of this House; and that this House will see with pleasure such relaxations in the existing system as may be compatible with a due regard to public health and the general interests of the nation." Eclair; The Times "Arrived this morning (September 29), the  Eclair, 878 "The statement that the sick had been removed to Haslar Hospital is without foundation. No one is allowed to go on board or leave the vessel." Eclair 879 880 pratique. nil. l. l. 881
 MR. BRIGHT  presumed the noble Lord must be acquainted with the fact, that they could obtain from the Customs an account of the raw material imported into the country, and of the manufactured goods exported. If they imported annually 500,000,000 or 600,000,000 pounds weight of cotton, and exported annually a certain amount, all they had to do was to apply the simple rule of subtraction, to find out what was the quantity that remained in the country. There was, no doubt, one defect in these returns—they were not always given in the same way—the returns being in weight in one case, and not in weight in another; but it was well known that it was impossible for any Government to ascertain the exact amount of all the different kinds of goods, or no doubt they would have much pleasure in giving the information. When his hon. Friend the Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) said they ought to have agricultural information, he meant it for the benefit of the agriculturists themselves, and not from any mere wish to inquire what they were doing. He believed that, in reference to the manufacturing interest of the country, the noble Lord might obtain much information from inpectors.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the discussion which had taken place on the question, would increase the opinion out of doors that election inquiries were little better than a farce. The allegation in the petition was bribery and treating; but the decision given by the Committee was on a point not sent to them by the House. How came the question of bribery to get the go-by? The Gentlemen on the Treasury bench said, that bribery should be inquired into by the Bill of the noble Lord; but, in his opinion, that Act was framed for the express purpose of eluding all inquiry into that subject. In point of fact, a general understanding existed in boroughs not to petition on the ground of bribery, lest their borough should be disfranchised; but when they did petition, to petition on some general allegation, calculated to throw dust in the eyes of the public. Unless the House granted the inquiry proposed by the hon. Member for Weymouth, the whole matter, from beginning to end, would be a mere farce. The question was, whether a compromise existed or not; or had the Committee been bamboozled, as the hon. Member on the other side stated. That required to be cleared up and set straight; if not the general opinion would be that the House shut the door against all inquiry.
 MR. HUME  moved the adjournment of the debate until Thursday, as Mr. Christie and other hon. Members had gone away thinking the question was settled.
 MR. HUME  thought the time was come when this question ought to be taken up, not only by Her Majesty's Government, but by the Governments of other countries. To abolish these laws would be a step not only in humanity, but towards free trade. The whole of our foreign trade was subjected by them to a delay which was highly expensive, and often ruinous. He thought as much as 120,000 l.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  observed, that if
 909
 MR. GISBORNE  objected to the great powers that the Bill proposed to give to a minority of shareholders.
 MR. GISBORNE  was of opinion that the law upon controverted elections having been fully laid down, no Member of that House could feel dissatisfied if that law were followed by no other mode of inquiry. Still he was of opinion that cases like the present should on all occasions receive the fullest attention, in order that it might not be said that Members were allowed to sit in the House, against the friends of whom might be brought a charge that they had connived at unfairness. Cases similar to the present often occurred. One hon. Member sat at the present moment in that House, because his opponent not caring to defend his seat, forty-six votes were at once struck off the list of those who had voted for him, and the hon. Member was accordingly declared returned. A mode existed of managing these matters. When it was not desirable that cases of bribery should be disclosed, a proceeding called "jobbing the lists" was practised. Such proceedings as these should be rendered impossible; and he hoped the Committe would not only be appointed, but that they would go to the fullest inquiry, and take other cases besides that of Rockett. Seats had been transferred from one person to another without those most interested knowing a word about the matter. Such proceedings were a great abuse of law and of justice, and he trusted the Legislature would not continue to sit
 895
 MR. WAKLEY  regretted that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department had interfered and prevented the Chairman of the Committee from disclosing those circumstances with which he thought the House ought to be
 897 898
 MR. CHRISTIE  moved his Amendment as a substantive Motion.
 MR. CHRISTIE  was willing to adopt the suggestion of the hon. Members for Cockermouth and Oxford, and leave out the latter words of his Motion, namely, "and also whether and to what extent bribery and treating were practised at the last election for the borough of Bridport."
 MR. CHRISTIE  stated his willingness to acquiesce in the suggestions of the Attorney General, provided the hon. and
 888 889 "That the Petition of William Rockett be referred to a Select Committee, which shall be appointed, to inquire into all the circumstances under which Joseph Welch gave evidence before the Select Committee on the Bridport Election Petition, that William Rockett voted for Mr. Romilly, and whether any compromise or arrangement was entered into by the parties to the Petition, their counsel, or agents, to prevent the disclosure of bribery or treating; and also, whether, and to what extent, bribery and treating were practised at the last election for the Borough of Bridport."
 MR. MACKINNON  wished also to say a few words on the present question. It was worthy of observation, in connection with this subject, that it had been ascertained when the thermometer rose to 80 degrees in any country where the plague
 882 Eclair,
 SIR G. CLERK  said, on the part of the Government, he had no objection whatsoever to the production of the Papers and correspondence moved for by the hon. Member opposite. He also expressed his concurrence in all that had fallen from the hon. Member. The apprehensions which long existed in this country about the supposed contagious character of this disease, were losing ground, and it was desirable that these restrictions upon commercial intercourse should be done away with, without exciting any unnecessary alarm. From the communications he had received since this subject was last under discussion he hoped that foreign Governments would soon be convinced, from the result of the experiments which had been made to investigate the question of contagion, of the impolicy of continuing the system much longer. The preservation, however, of our own commerce in the Mediterranean required that we should deal with the matter judiciously and deliberately.
 SIR G. CLERK , as it was understood
 875 876
 SIR G. CLERK  remarked, that cases might occur in which parties connected with a scheme might wish to force it on by undue means, and with that view continue to have their meetings held at a period when it would be extremely inconvenient for the shareholders to attend. To avoid that, the Bill enacted that such meeting might be adjourned, to afford greater facilities to shareholders to record their assent or dissent.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  made an observation across the Table, and the hon. Member sat down.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  begged to offer an apology to the right hon. Gentleman for not having been in the House when his Notice had been called on by the Speaker. But he had been most particularly engaged on some important public business, which had delayed him. With regard to the Bill, his impression, upon reading the notice regarding it, was, he confessed, unfavourable to its object. He should frankly state to the right hon. Gentleman that, judging only by the wording of the Notice, he had very grave objections to the Bill.
 874
 MR. ROMILLY  said, that he was not going to say one word as to the question, but in reference to what the hon. Member for Finsbury had stated that this question was presented by him (Mr. Romilly). When the late election for Bridport was concluded against him, he felt somewhat dissatisfied, but declined, though pressed to do so, to take any steps whatever to reverse the decision. He was pressed on several occasions to be the petitioning party against Mr. Cochrane, but declined to be connected with the petition, or to have anything whatever to do with it. The petition was presented in the name of a voter; he knew nothing of its being brought forward except by casual report, from his learned Friends, who, thinking he might feel interested, came and spoke to him on the subject. He never was consulted by any person with regard to the petition, consequently he was a total stranger as to whether there was a compromise or not. So far as this Motion was concerned, personally,
 900
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  differed in opinion from his hon. Friend the Member for Dorsetshire, when he said they had assumed to themselves a power, and were therefore bound to exercise it with proportionate caution and forbearance. He contended that they had not assumed any such power. Their power was committed to them by an Act of the whole Legislature; and they were bound by law, and therefore it was their duty to exercise the authority with which they were so intrusted. He also differed from the hon. Member for Dorsetshire when he said that the decision of the Committee had added one vote to the recent triumph of the Government. The majority of the Government would not have been one less if the original Member had continued to occupy a seat in the House during the late divisions; for that Gentleman had already intimated his intention to vote with Her Majesty's Ministers. He also differed from his hon. Friend as to the construction of the petition upon which the Election Committee was to decide. He felt that it was not legally necessary that a petition complaining of any one election, should state any given number of charges; it was enough that A. B., being an elector, should state that C. had been improperly returned, and should pray that the House would redress the wrong. He agreed, however, with his hon. Friend, though he differed from him as to these points, that this was a matter of the gravest importance, not merely to those particular individuals immediately concerned, but to every Member of the House, and to all the constituencies which they represented. He could certainly have wished that the hon. and learned Attorney General had not interposed on the present occasion. That interposition was marked by an animation which he thought the subject scarcely called for. He also would have wished that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department had not risen to prevent the hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. Wood), the Chairman of this particular Committee, from stating the circumstances connected with it. Since he had had the honour of a seat in that House he was opposed to the reopening of any judicial question which had already
 896
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  should like to have some explanation from the right hon. Gentleman. He wished to know what was meant by "Christian congregations." He knew very well what in his own conscience would be the meaning of such a phrase, but he should wish to know what the right hon. Gentlemen meant by using it. The right hon. Gentleman was known to be the advocate conscientiously, of the Free Church of Scotland, and he wished to know why the phrase "Christian congregations" had been adopted instead of any more distinct appellation. As to the Bill itself, some explanation was really requisite. So far as he could understand it, it was to enable persons who described themselves as Christians, to take a certain portion of their neighbour's property for their own use without that neighbour's consent; in fact, to give to persons calling themselves "Christians" just such powers as were given to railway companies by their Acts, to take certain lands at a fixed price. He thought the House would pause before allowing such a measure to be introduced, without some satisfactory explanation regarding it.
 SIR R. INGLIS  hoped that they would not trust to scientific means for the prevention of disease rather than to the goodness of Providence. He did not like to talk of judicial visitations, but it would be remembered that it was just after the report of the French savants declaring cholera not to be contagious, that the disease broke out in Paris and ravaged France.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  moved that the Bill be read a Third Time.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the attention of the House had been called to this subject on the Motion of his hon. Friend who had just concluded his address to the House. And his hon. Friend had stated a fact which appeared to him (Sir R. Peel) to be very deserving of the attention of the House; namely, a voter was declared by a Committee to have voted for a candidate for whom he asserted that he did not vote. He said, that thereby his character was injured; that he had uniformly voted for a party professing certain principles; but that the Committee of the House of Commons had declared that he had voted for the opposite candidate, and that the consequence of that was, that the vote which he had given for one candidate was given to another. It was quite clear that by the statute law of the country, so far as the seat was concerned, that was decided. There could not be a question of it that the present Member for the town of Bridport (Mr. Romilly) was entitled to the seat. He had a statutable parliamentary right to it; and no decision on the part of that House, no other authority than that of an Act of Parliament, could deprive that Gentleman of the right to which he was entitled by the statute law of this country. Redress, therefore, even if wrong had been committed, would not be given in that case; but it was for the House to consider whether or no, on an allegation of a petitioner that injustice had been done to him, they would not institute an inquiry into that specific case. He confessed that, in his opinion, an inquiry ought to be instituted into that specific case. If there was no other mode of conducting the inquiry, he should vote for the original Motion, namely, that the party should be called to the bar; but he thought there was another and more
 906 907 bonâ fide 908
 MR. STAFFORD O'BRIEN , understanding from the hon. Gentleman's observations that he was willing to withdraw all the clauses of the Bill which had reference to adult labour, confining its operations to infantine labour only, would, under such circumstances, vote for the second reading.
 MR. W. COWPER  would put it to his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury, whether it were desirable, for the object which he had in view, to put the House to the trouble of a division. It appeared to him that many hon. Gentlemen who had declared their intention of voting against the present Bill, had also declared in favour of the principle of interference with infant labour. The division, therefore, which the House was about to take, would not be a division on the question of interference or non-interference. He himself should have great difficulty in voting for the Bill, and he would wish his hon. Friend to withdraw this measure, and introduce one which he had framed himself.
 LORD J. MANNERS  remarked, that whatever might be the fate of this Bill on its second reading, so many admissions had been made in favour of the principle of one important portion of it by the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, as well as by others, that he apprehended the opposition of Government must ultimately fail of staving it off. He thought he could rest his defence of the Bill upon one or two statements he had just heard from the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Hobhouse). The right hon. Gentleman had assumed, that because he had presented a petition from twenty-five master manufacturers of Nottingham, the master manufacturers must be against this measure; but he had presented a petition from 479 master manufacturers engaged in the Nottingham trade in favour of the measure; so that if it were to be decided by their opinions, he claimed the support of the right hon. Gentleman in favour of the second reading. The right hon. Gentleman had also referred to a statement which he thought was conclusive, that the crimes and iniquities which in the case of the people of Nottingham had been laid to the charge of night labour, were not justly so
 934 935
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  thought that the present Bill was not to be objected to solely, if at all, on account of its interference with the labour of children. It appeared to him to be a perfectly just principle that, as the State protected the property of minors, who were the children of the rich, so with regard to the children of the labouring classes, the State should, by legislation, take care that neither their bodies nor their minds sustained any detriment by excessive labour. If, therefore, that alone were the object of the present Bill, he should have thought that the details of the measure might be allowed to be considered in Committee. But there were two objects in the present Bill, which seemed to him to violate every principle of prudent legislation. In the first clause of the Bill, night labour was prohibited, and the labourer was required to work from a certain hour in the morning to a certain hour at night. That evidently was an interference with the labour of the adult males of this country. Now, if a man could earn his living by no other means than engaging to work eight or nine hours at night, ought they to legislate to prevent him from earning his wages in that way? Ought his means of subsistence to be endangered by a legislative enactment? Were there not, in fact, cases where they could not prevent night labour? Were there not instances where men had no other means of subsistence except by working at night, such as the driver of a stage coach,
 947
 MR. STRUTT  observed, that the hon. Member had referred to a former debate on the Factory Bill that was introduced when Lord Althorp was Chancellor of the Exchequer, and had said that the lace manufacture was excluded from that Bill; and the hon. Gentleman had referred to his (Mr. Strutt's) remarks on that occasion,
 929 bonus 930 l. l.,
 MR. MUNTZ  could only support the Bill, so far as it affected children. It was quite impossible that he could agree to interfere with the hours in which the mills were employed. What right had that House to interfere with the mills? He himself always worked his mills night and day, but he took care to keep two sets of workpeople. There was one point which seemed to be overlooked by every one who had spoken on this subject, and that was the cause of this extreme pressure of work. What was the cause of these extreme hours? Was it foreign competition, or the competition of the mills, or the competition of the people with each other? It was not foreign competition. He said, without fear of contradiction, that whenever there were these extreme hours, it was because the remuneration to ordinary hours was not sufficient to support the workmen and pay the employers. He had never known an instance where there was an improvement in the state of trade, and in the rate of wages, in which the quantity of work was not reduced one-third or one-half. The worst competition in this country was the competition of manufacturers with each other. The
 936
 MR. MUNTZ  had never said that the people in his employ worked day and night. He worked by relays; and his men never worked for more than nine or ten hours, which was as much as any man could work either for his employer's interest or his own.
 MR. BRIGHT  wished to make one observation in answer to the hon. Member for Knaresborough (Mr. Ferrand), who had asked the House to interfere with labour on the ground that certain strikes had taken place in the north of England. He begged to tell that hon. Member that those strikes existed only amongst trades not in any degree connected with mills or factories, and amongst a class of workmen who never worked more than ten hours a day, and respecting whom there was no proposition before the House. With re-
 946
 MR. BROTHERTON  had for the last thirty years taken a part in restricting the hours of labour in factories, but he must confess that he had great difficulty in supporting such a measure as this. His feelings were in favour of it, but it appeared to him that the hon. Member for Finsbury tried to attain two objects which were incompatible with each other. If all the trade in lace-making was carried on in factories, he should have no hesitation in voting for the measure; but it appeared that the greater proportion of these machines were worked in private houses. The House ought, therefore, to pause, before they sanctioned such a principle as interference with domestic labour. Where, he would ask, was such an interference to stop? They might just as well interfere with the hand-loom weavers. It appeared to him, also, that the Bill sanctioned the principle of working children, above eight years of age, sixteen hours a day, and therefore, upon the whole, he did not feel disposed to give his vote in favour of the measure.
 COLONEL ROLLESTON  had given the subject under discussion the fullest consideration, and felt it his duty to give his most anxious support to the Bill. He earnestly entreated the House to take into consideration the provisions of this Bill; and if they did not think it advisable to pass the measure as a whole, to carry at least such parts of it as would extend relief to a class who were labouring under oppressions which, if paralleled, were certainly not exceeded, in any branch of the manufactures of the country. The right hon. Gentleman was, in his opinion, under considerable misapprehensions on this subject, and on other points, as to the views of the machine-workers. Now, he had
 927 Hansard "Put the lace trade in a very different light from any other, as the Bill would not include more than one-fifth of it; and he would therefore agree to the Amendment." 928
 MR. P. SCROPE  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether the attention of Her Majesty's Govern-
 913 l. l., l. l. l. l., l., l., l. 914
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that in asking the House to consent to the Second Reading of this Bill, which he had had the honour of introducing, in connexion with the hon. and gallant Member for South Nottinghamshire (Colonel Rolleston), he was not insensible to the difficulties he had to encounter. Those difficulties were not diminished in consequence of there having hitherto been no legislative interference with the lace manufacture. But, having convinced himself that it was expedient and highly necessary, if the House regarded either the morals or the social comfort of the classes to whom the Bill applied, he had, at the desire of several persons from the neighbourhood of Nottingham, undertaken the charge of the measure.
 915 916 917 918
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  observed, that if this Bill were thrown out he should not be much worse off than if he were to accede to the suggestion made by his hon. Friend. He should certainly take the sense of the House upon the question. He should not think it worth while to take any notice of the ridicule and sarcasm which had been
 949 950
 MR. GISBORNE  did not see how the argument of the right hon. Gentleman opposite could be got over, that if by restricting the hours of labour you disabled the workman, you would not be able to
 938
 MR. GISBORNE  understood, from communications he had had with his constituents, that the intention of the promoters of the Bill in the first instance was to restrain only such machines as were worked in factories; but that the pressure in the case became so strong upon his hon. Friend (Mr. Duncombe), that he could not maintain his ground, and was obliged to include in his Bill the still larger number of machines which were worked in private houses, cottages, and cellars. Now, in order to effect this, his hon. Friend was obliged to furnish the House with some machinery capable of carrying out this intention. And what did he offer to the House for this purpose? Why, he gave to the House the choice of domiciliary visits or common informers. That was the choice the hon. Member was driven to. Now, which would the House choose? He (Mr. Gisborne) declared that not only could he not say which was best, but he could not say which was worst. His hon. Friend in carrying out his Bill was driven to the definition of "a factory" which no one ever heard of before. A factory with him was sometimes
 937
 MR. WAKLEY  was sorry to have heard the speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down; for having told them that the great majority of the working people were in favour of this Bill, yet he could not support it. It was a melancholy thing to hear hon. Members saying that the great masses of the people were in favour of a particular measure; but yet that, in consequence of the views which they themselves entertained on subjects of political economy, they were obliged to vote against measures introduced specially for the benefit of the masses. The people prayed the House to take their case into its consideration; and that if it did wrong at their request, they might be the sufferers—that they would be content to bear the consequences. The substantial question, however, involved in the present discussion, was interference or non-interference. He did not know, indeed, who drew up the present Bill. He was unacquainted with the artist. He was not aware whether or not it was his hon. Colleague who had prepared it. But he confessed he did not think the wording of the Bill was such as
 939 940
 ME. WAKLEY  wished to know if the attention of the right hon. Baronet had been called to the recent case of poisoning near Norwich. It appeared that several persons had lost their lives by poison. An investigation had taken place, and the jury had returned a verdict; but such was the mystery in which the case was enveloped, that with the exception that the death had been the result of poison, no other light had been thrown upon it, and the perpetrator of the crime remained undiscovered.
 MR. FERRAND  could not but express his deep regret that the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down should have taken so much pains to turn that Bill, and the arguments used in its favour, into ridicule. It was a melancholy fact that whenever an hon. Member in that House proposed to legislate for the welfare of the working population of this country, he was always met with the strongest opposition. The working population for several years had appealed to that House to take the peculiar circumstances under which they laboured into consideration. They had almost appealed in vain, and they had now commenced to legislate for themselves; and he would ask Her Majesty's Government, as well as hon. Members on both sides of the House, to look for one instant to the manufacturing population of the north of England. They were entering at this present moment into an alarming combination to protect themselves against what they called the tyranny and oppression of their masters. Let the House look at the fearful strikes for wages which have taken place in Manchester, Liverpool, and other large towns in the north of England; and he thought there was there sufficient to induce the House to consider that it was high time for Parliament to take into its most mature and deliberate consideration the serious quarrels which had from some causes taken place between masters and their servants. In the case now before the House, they found that the master manufacturers and their own workpeople had united in a body to come before that House, to ask redress; and what had they witnessed that afternoon? Ridicule cast upon this attempt to legislate on their behalf, from both sides of the House. They had asked for the second reading of this Bill; and he had no hesitation in saying, that if that House refused the second read-of the Bill, it would be offering to those working classes a direct insult, and would drive them ultimately to their own resources, as he had before said, to legislate on this matter, which they would do by entering into one universal combination throughout this country, and compel their masters to consent to protect them and their interests, as Parliament had refused to interfere in their behalf. He would not say one word about the question whether the manufacturers of this country
 945
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  did not deny that he entertained objections to this Bill—he did not deny that he felt an objection to limit the hours of adult labour; but, at the same time, he did not think they were precluded from interfering to prevent the younger portion of the manufacturing classes of England from being overworked. That was what he should desire, and he hoped to effect that object by voting in favour of this Bill. The great question before the House was, whether the infantine labour of this country should be protected from the oppression of the holders of capital. The long hours which they were compelled to work injured their health and morals, and he, therefore, contended that, no matter whether this Bill would injure the interests of the manufacturers or not, the Legislature was bound to extend its protecting influence to the hard-working children of England. The hours of labour, which this Bill sought to restrict, were more than human nature could endure. Taking that position, he conceived it to be the duty of the House to pass some such measure as this, whatever might be the effect of wages. He should, therefore, give his hearty support to the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. M. PHILIPS  advised the hon. Member who had introduced the measure to withdraw it, and bring in another Bill, confined to protection to infant labour. Even the hon. Member's Colleague—for Finsbury was divided against itself on this question—could not give the measure a cordial support. With regard to what had been said by the hon. Member for Knaresborough, namely, that it would be an insult to the working classes of the community if those who were sent to that House, and saw the practical difficulties of the measure, did not assent to it, he could only say that he differed entirely from the opinions which that hon. Member seemed to entertain. The principle of having recourse to informers and domiciliary visits, he, for one, could not consent to; and he thought that they ought to point out the absurdity of such regulations to the people, who, he was sure, would be thankful to have the practical difficulties in the way of the measure exposed. He wished to see a measure introduced for the protection of
 948
 SIR J. GRAHAM  had heard nothing of the case until that morning, when he had read it in the newspapers with horror. He was not aware that the assistance of the Home Department had been called for as yet to aid the investigation; but if it should be required, or if he could in any manner promote a more searching investigation, he should be most willing to do so, and to render every assistance in his power.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said: The hon. Gentlemen who has moved the second reading of this Bill has made a strong appeal to me, and has asked me, at all events, not to resist the second reading; and he has stated that he brings forward this measure with the consent, I think, of four-fifths of the master manufacturers employed in this trade, and with almost the unanimous consent of the workmen. With reference to the consent of the master manufacturers, I have not the means of definitely ascertaining in what proportion they are favourable to this measure; but certainly the information I have received is decidedly at variance with the statement of the hon. Member. However, as I see opposite to me the two hon. Members for Nottingham, and one of the hon. Members for Derby, I will not, at this moment, enter into any dispute as to the feelings and wishes of the master manufacturers, because these hon. Members are better able than I am to go into that part of the statement just made to the House. With respect to the feelings of the working classes, it cannot be dissembled that their wish must naturally be, in the first instance, that some restriction
 919 920 l. l. l., l. l. l., 921 922 923 924 925 926
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, his attention had not been specifically called to the case of Mallow, as the hon. Gentleman had not given him notice of the questions he had put; but, fortunately, the representative of Mallow had been attending to his duties in Parliament, and probably the hon. Baronet would be able to give the hon. Gentleman a more accurate description of the state of Mallow than he was able to give. With regard to the destitution in that neighbourhood, a Commission was sitting day by day in Dublin, for the purpose of receiving communications relating to local distress; immediately upon the receipt of any such representation, inquiries were instituted upon the spot, and any assistance which could be given to the local contributions was accorded by the Government. There had been no direct communication with the Government here upon the subject. With regard to the second question put by the hon. Gentlemen, whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to act upon the precedent brought under their notice, when destitution of a similar kind prevailed on the west coast of Scotland, he (Sir J. Graham) had already stated to the House, that in the present year, and under present circumstances, it was not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to propose a land-tax in Ireland to meet the prevailing distress. It was not their intention to introduce measures of that description at the present moment. What might be their future policy, was much too great a question to enter upon now.
 SIR J. C. HOBHOUSE , as one of the Members for Nottingham, and as having twenty-one years ago taken up this subject of the restriction of labour in factories, when he brought in a Bill which soon after became the law of the land, with some emendations adopted by Lord Althorp, hoped the House would permit him to address to them a few remarks on this Bill. First, he would remark that those who wished to consider and discuss this Bill were placed in a position of some little difficulty; for anybody to look at the Bill would suppose, as he had done, that it was meant to apply to factories according to the common and trite meaning of that term; and having had various communications with many persons in order to obtain their views, he must say that those views, as well as all the arguments he had made out for himself, applied to the Bill as relating to factories, and not to workshops or private houses. Now, however, his hon. Friend said that he intended the Bill to apply to every part of the trade. The preamble stated that night labour should cease henceforth in all factories where bobbin-net or warp-lace machinery is employed, &c., and that no such machinery should work earlier than six o'clock in the morning, or later than ten at night. That was the preamble; but then there was another part of the Bill relating to infant labour, and there were introduced the words "any shop, dwelling-house," &c. The first enacting part was meant apparently to apply to factories only; but then subsequently it appeared to be extended so as to apply to children in all kinds of houses. His hon. Friend said, that he meant to make it apply to all kinds of private houses. The objection was, that it would be almost impossible to carry such a Bill into effect; and that he (Sir J. C. Hobhouse) apprehended was the reason why enactments to the same effect had not before found their way into statutes for similar objects. As to what had been said of the universal feeling of the masters and workmen, he was sorry to say that that statement was not confirmed by the accounts he had received from Nottingham; so far from it, that he
 931 932 933
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, I am surprised, after the speech of the hon. Gentleman, that he should have concluded by affirming the principle of this Bill, and declaring that he would vote for its second reading, because the hon. Gentleman has declared that he feels it would be radically unjust to attempt any direct interference in restricting the hours of adult labour. He thinks that it would give rise—that its inevitable consequence must be, as was so well stated by the hon. Gentleman on the opposite side of the House (Mr. Gisborne) that if you prohibit by direct legislation adults from making the most of their time, that the next difficulty with which you will have to contend, will be to meet the claim which the workmen will make upon you to fix a minimum rate of wages. How could you resist such a demand? Then, the hon. Gentleman says, that if the principle of this Bill is to restrict the hours of adult labour, that he would oppose it. Sir, I say that the direct and avowed principle of this Bill is to restrict the hours of adult labour. It does not profess to interfere with the labour of children—it does not bear upon the labour of children on the face of it—it does not profess to regulate the lace factories upon the same principles as the Legislature has regulated the linen and the cotton factories. The title of this Bill is "A Bill
 941 "For the preservation of health and morals, it is necessary to regulate night-labour in all factories where bobbin-net or warp-lace machinery is employed or worked for making lace or any other fabric." 942 l. l. l. 943 l. l., 944
 MR. COLLETT  remarked that the questions of which notice had been given were three; and he hoped, in his character of an Irish Member, to be allowed to reply to them all, though he had yet only heard one. He had put himself to considerable personal inconvenience for the purpose; but the three questions of Wednesday had dwindled down to one on Thursday. In reply to the first question, he had to state that, since Monday last, he had taken no further steps in the business. In answer to the second, whether he had lodged his affidavits in the hands of the Secretary of State for the Home Department, he would mention that on Tuesday morning, before the hon. Member gave his notice of questions, he (Mr. J. Collett) had employed himself in making copies of all the documents which he had sent to the right hon. Baronet, with a letter, which, perhaps, he might be allowed to read to the House. The hon. Member read the letter, to the effect that he had sent the affidavits, &c., respecting which he hoped that the earliest opportunity for inquiry would be taken, and the result be stated to the House, and that he deliberately repeated his belief in the truth of the affidavits; and that as the right hon. Baronet had asked for the affidavits, in order to found a prosecution upon them, he trusted that, if such prosecution should be instituted by Her Majesty's Government, he should be included in it. This was not meant as an idle threat, but seriously, because if the other parties deserved to be prosecuted, he was most materially involved in the charge. The last question of the hon. Member for Cheltenham was, whether he (Mr. J. Collett) intended to take further proceedings, or to allow the matter to remain where it was? To that he might reply, without pledging himself as to what further proceeding he might think proper to adopt, that he was desirous of the fullest and most searching inquiry, and that if the hon. Member would move for a Committee for the purpose, he would second the Motion with the utmost pleasure.
 MR. BAILLIE  observed, that it was generally reported that the statue was too large for the arch, and that it was consequently to be placed lengthways to the arch, so as to look east and west, or at right angles to the road; and what he wished to suggest was, that at all events the statue should be placed properly on the arch.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that had he been aware at the time, which, from the noise in the House, he was not, that the hon. Member for Maldon was making some disparaging observations on the conduct of the Secretary of the Ecclesiastical Commission, Mr. Murray, he (the Attorney General) would not have lost the opportunity of declaring, that from Mr. Murray's high character, a character earned by thirty-five years' experience in a public capacity, nothing was more unlikely than that any step officially taken by that gentleman would be of such a nature as to require such animadversion.  [Cries of
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  resumed.
 964 l.
 MR. O'CONNELL : I hope I shall be permitted to move that this correspondence be printed, circulated with the Votes, and taken into consideration to-morrow.
 MR. C. BERKELEY  wished to put some questions to the hon. Member for Athlone (Mr. J. Collett). If the accusation against Sir Charles Taylor were true, the Secretary of State was bound to advise Her Majesty to dismiss Sir C. Taylor from the commission of the peace: if the charge were untrue, the Member who brought it
 959
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  wished to put a question as to the intended equestrian statue to the Duke of Wellington. Some three weeks ago a scaffolding had been commenced round the arch on Constitution-hill, and on inquiring what was going forward, he was told that the enormous colossal statue to the Duke—a statue much too large for the intended base, was to be immediately placed upon the summit of the arch. Since that period, however, objection was taken to the destination of the statue, and some attempt was made to
 961
 MR. C. BULLER , in the present state of public business, could not think of bringing forward his Motion on the subject of New Zealand. He therefore withdrew his Notice, reserving to himself the liberty of renewing it when he might deem it necessary. At the same time, perhaps, the right hon. Gentleman would give an assurance which would be most satisfactory to the settlers, that it was not the intention of Government to allow the Session to pass without introducing some measure in reference to this Colony. Such an assurance would allay great anxiety.
 MR. SPEAKER : I have to acquaint the House that I have received the following communication from Mr. S. O'Brien:—
 MR. WODEHOUSE  rose to put a question to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government relating to the German customs tariff, referring more particularly to the letter from the Earl of Westmorland to the Earl of Aberdeen, dated Berlin, November 8, 1842, respecting the increase of import duties on woollen and printed cotton goods, as well as other articles of manufacture, to take effect during the years 1843, 1844, and 1845. He begged to remind the right hon. Gentleman that in his letter the Earl of Westmorland had stated that this tariff would not materially affect the manufactures of this country, and that it was meant as a measure of retaliation against France. He also wished to recall to the memory of the right hon. Baronet, that in a recent discussion he had stated that he had reason to suppose that there was in Prussia an intention to alter the line of commercial policy as to freedom of trade. He wished to know, therefore, whether it were the intention of Government to lay
 953
 MR. J. E. DENISON : The very singular and remarkable indiscretion of the Attorney General compelled him to enter a little further into a matter which, so far as he was concerned, he should willingly let drop. As to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, the right hon. Gentleman admitted that he was incorrectly informed as to their conduct, and it was of course unnecessary to enter into explanation on that head. He should like to ask the House whether they would take the assurance of the Attorney General, or the opinion of four selected Members, and of seven Members from the Speaker's list, who, one and all, expressed it as their decided opinion that the prayer of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners to be
 965 966
 MR. J. E. DENISON  said, that the intimation was perfectly satisfactory. When he had ascertained the contents of the letter in question, he had written to the Earl of Besborough, who was to preside at a meeting of the Commission the following morning, stating that the document was inconsistent with the privileges of the House, and not the less so, because the statements it contained were incorrect. He had further stated in this communication, with regard to Mr. White, the writer of the letter, that all he had done before the Committee, was done with propriety and ability. He trusted that the explanation which had been now given would set him right with all parties; he had every disposition to put a favourable construction on Mr. White's motive.
 MR. HUME  withdrew his Motion, and the discussion ended.
 MR. HUME : I move that the Paper said to be an invasion of the privileges of the House be put in, thus giving an opportunity for discussion.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  inquired whether Government had invited the distinguished son of that great man, Mehemet Ali, to visit this country?
 MR. FERRAND : I rise in explanation. The right hon. Baronet charged the ratepayers with being the cause of the crowded state of the Bingley workhouse; but the fact is, that the Commissioners themselves have sent in the paupers, and have had the control of the workhouse for three years. Under the old law it held twelve, and under the new fifty-nine have been put into it.
 MR. FERRAND : I rise to put the four questions of which I have given notice relative to the Bingley union. The House will perhaps allow me in the first place to make one or two remarks. This is a personal affair, relating to myself, because I am charged with neglecting my duty as a country gentleman as well as a magistrate, and I feel that the House ought to allow me to proceed. In 1839 the old Poor Law ceased to be enforced in the town of Bingley; there were then twelve inmates in the poorhouse. The Commissioners then took the affairs of the parish into their own hands, and the poor of other townships were crowded into the building. The poor-house was never entered until the year 1842, after which the Commissioners entered into a plot for the purpose of crushing me. Sir John Walsham drew up a report which stated that there were then fifty-nine inmates in the poorhouse. I shall not quote the expressions of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department on the occasion. It will be sufficient for me to say, that from the time of that report to the present moment no Assistant Poor Law Commissioner has ever approached the building of the Bingley poorhouse. The inmates have been increased instead of decreased, and there are now no fewer than seventy inmates. My four questions are these:—'1. Whether Her Majesty's Government possess the power of rescuing from the hands of the Poor Law Commissioners seventy poor persons who are now confined by their orders in Bingley poorhouse,
 954
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  felt himself at liberty to state to the House what was
 960
 SIR J. GRAHAM , seeing the hon. Member for Maldon (Mr. Evelyn Denison) in his place, would take the opportunity of
 963
 SIR R. PEEL  apprehended that if the statue were to be placed north and south, it would somewhat obstruct the thoroughfare by breaking down the arch.
 SIR R. PEEL  would best perform his duty by simply stating that, on its being intimated to the Government that it was likely that Ibrahim Pacha would visit this country, a direct assurance was immediately conveyed to him that, if he did, it would be the wish of the Government to show him every attention in their power.
 SIR R. PEEL  should like to leave on record what had passed that evening, as an instance of the number and variety of questions a Minister of the Crown was expected to answer on one day. First, he had been called upon to answer a question respecting the Customs Tariff of this country and of the Zollverein; then came a question about the Bingley union; then another respecting the visit of Ibrahim Pacha; and now came a question respecting the Duke of Wellington's statue. He believed the facts were these—and when they were stated, he did not think that there would be found any ground for any accusation against Her Majesty's Government. Some time ago a subscription had been proposed for erecting an equestrian statue to the noble Duke, and a Committee had been appointed by the subscribers to direct the application of the fund. But before the subscriptions were raised a communication had been made to His late Majesty King William IV., who had been requested to state whether, in the event of the proposed subscriptions being raised for a magnificent equestrian statue to the Duke of Wellington, His Majesty would give his consent to its being placed on the arch at the top of Constitution-hill. Subsequently, a similar request had been made to Her present Majesty; and, he believed that Lord Melbourne, who was then Prime Minister, had been authorized to communicate to the Committee that Her Majesty would confirm the intention of Her Royal predecessor. Therefore the subscriptions had been raised after two successive Sovereigns had declared that they had no objection to the proposed site of the statue. He would not give any opinion on the question; but the noble Lord was of opinion that the statue, if placed as proposed, would disfigure the neighbourhood. The subscribers, on the contrary, thought it would be a very great ornament to the neighbourhood. In fact, they ought to
 962
 SIR R. PEEL : I am afraid the only assurance consistent with my duty which I can give is, that such an intimation shall be conveyed to the hon. and learned Gentleman as to the intentions of Government as shall enable him to bring forward any Motion which he may think fit at a period of the Session which will ensure full inquiry. The House, no doubt, bears in mind all that passed during the last Session as to this Colony. To the opinions I then expressed, and to the principles of the policy on which the government of New Zealand should be conducted, I still adhere; and no efforts have been spared by the Government, so far as circumstances would admit, to give effect to that expression of opinion on my part and on that of the Government. We are in this predicament. Captain Fitzroy having been recalled, a gentleman eminently distinguished for his
 968
 SIR R. PEEL : It is inconvenient to refer to matters that passed so long ago; but did not the hon. Member say that he altogether disapproved of the New Poor Law; and that although he was chairman of the board of guardians he would not adopt any step to carry it into execution? Under the existing law, the guardians have the power of administering outdoor relief; and were not representations made to the Commissioners that the ratepayers ought to be taxed in order that they might erect a fitter building; and have they not up to this day refused to accede to that course? Where is the point, then, on which I have made an unfounded charge?
 SIR R. PEEL : The House is aware that the communications between Government and the Poor Law Commissioners are not under my control, but that of my right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Home Department; still, as one of the hon. Member's questions, the concluding one, relates to something which passed in the House, now, I think, four years ago, and is supposed to have fallen from me, it is necessary that I should answer that question; and perhaps it will be more convenient that at the same time I should answer the others. The first is, whether Government possess the power of rescuing from the hands of the Poor Law Commissioners seventy poor persons now confined in the Bingley workhouse, a building capable of holding only twelve inmates. The answer I have to give is this: that I apprehend the Poor Law Commissioners have the power of restricting the number of persons to be admitted into a workhouse; there is, therefore, a power on the part of the Commissioners of reducing the number of persons now confined in the poorhouse of Bingley, and of bringing it below seventy persons. Immediately the hon. Member gave his notice, I felt it my duty to take care that there should be an immediate inquiry into the state of the Bingley workhouse, particularly as the hon. Member stated that fever prevailed among the paupers. I think on the evening of the day on which the hon. Member gave notice of these questions, at my suggestion,
 955 956 957 "No attempt has been made to impugn the general accuracy, nor, with one or two trifling and immaterial exceptions, any of the details of Sir John Walsham's report. The accuracy of his report as to the Keighley poorhouse is borne out by the evidence." 958
 SIR R. PEEL  wished his hon. Friend had given him more particular notice of his question; as it was printed in the Votes, it applied simply to the letter of the Earl of Westmorland in 1842. It was not his intention to lay upon the Table any communication relating to matters connected with our present relations with Prussia as regarded the customs laws; but he had no objection to produce the customs tariff of the Zollverein, passed last year, for 1846, 1847, and 1848, that it might be compared with the tariff of 1843, 1844, and 1845.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  rose to move an Address for the re-appointment of the Real Property Commission, when there being only 27 Members present, the House was counted and adjourned at half-past seven o'clock.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  replied that the Messrs. Murray, the printers to the board of supervision of the poor in Scotland, were also printers for their own behoof, and the paper containing the queries
 982
 MR. O'CONNELL : My intention is to state the facts of the case, and then to submit one or two Motions resulting from what I consider the law as founded upon the facts. I mean to move that the Order of the 27th April be discharged, because it was made under misinformation and misstatement of the hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Estcourt). Of course, I do not impute designed misstatement to the hon. Member, for he is incapable of stating anything that he does not believe: but he has, in my humble opinion, grossly misinformed the House, and thereby obtained an order which otherwise never would have been agreed to. He is the Chairman of what is called the Committee of Selection, but the legal existence of which I beg leave to deny. He purported to be Chairman, acted as such, and in that capacity, and so terming himself, entered into a correspondence with the hon. Member for Limerick. The hon. Gentleman detailed the circumstances connected with that correspondence to induce the House to order Mr. Smith O'Brien to attend a particular Committee, and he obtained that order. If I am able to show that that order was made under the misapprehension of a principal fact, the House ought to amend its proceedings, and direct the discharge of the hon. Member for Limerick. There cannot be a shadow of doubt that the House, on the allegation of the existence of the Committee of Selection, and of the refusal of Mr. Smith O'Brien to comply with the request of the Chairman, directed him to attend, and on his disobedience committed him; but I deny that there was any such Committee of Selection. I admit that there were materials for it, but the
 984 985 "That the Order made upon the 27th of April last, that William Smith O'Brien, Esq., do attend the said Committee to-morrow be discharged."
 MR. O'CONNELL  would offer only a few words in reply. The order disobeyed was to attend a Committee, which Committee had been constituted by a body which had no right to constitute it. Hon. Members had spoken of the "unfortunate" and "unhappy" words in the Standing Order; but these words were the cause of the confinement of his hon. Friend the Member for Limerick. If such a Standing Order had been drawn up by an Irish Parliament, there would have been no end to the taunts that the Members did not understand the use of the English language. "What a Parliament!" would be the exclamation. "What a Parliament, that does not know that the words 'every Session' does not mean once! What a set of blundering, tipsy fellows!" However, there was an easy method of getting over the difficulty, if hon. Gentlemen were permitted to say that the words meant nothing, and that they were to pass for nothing. He could not be satisfied with this mode of escaping from a violation of the commonest rules of grammar; and Mr. Smith O'Brien was to be detained in custody by virtue of the decision of a tribunal that depended upon a direct contradiction for its justification. According to some, the hon. Member for Oxford was a kind of autocrat, who was to do as he liked, and to say, "You cannot do this, and you cannot do that," and would not allow the exercise of discretion or choice by the House. Supposing Chairmen were appointed who were interested in railways, was it not to be allowed that others should take objection to them? Was not a Member to be allowed to urge the postponement of the nomination, in order that due inquiry might be made before it was completed? He meant to move, whatever became of this Motion, that Mr. Smith O'Brien be unconditionally discharged from custody.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  only wished to make one remark upon the speech of the hon. Member for Finsbury. He would have risen to express his opinions had it not been for the speech of the right hon. Member for Devonport (Sir G. Grey), and that of the hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Strutt). But they had exhausted the subject; they had taken a view of it in which he completely completely concurred. They had used every argument which he could urge, and he should have thought it an unpardonable waste of the time of the House had he risen, again to go over the ground they had preceded him in, and most probably to weaken the impression which they had made.
 VISCOUNT POLLINGTON  thought, that as even the right hon. Member for Devonport admitted that the matter involved considerable doubt, the benefit of that doubt ought to be given to Mr. Smith O'Brien. He could not approve of an hon. Member being imprisoned under such circumstances.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  observed, that the matter should be viewed as a technical question, and looking at it in that light, he was far from satisfied, that their proceedings were right, or that the Committee of which he was a Member was legally and constitutionally constituted. He did not see how the objections of the hon. Member for Kendal had been answered as to the form of the Order. He would go further and say, that in his mind that Order, as at present worded, was perfectly illusory. At all events, let the most liberal construction be placed upon it.
 MR. O'CONNELL : I shall give the House an opportunity of acting on the previous suggestion of the right hon. Baronet.
 MR. B. DENISON  said the real question before the House seemed to have been
 1061
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, I am sorry to detain the House at this late period of the night; but I should be very unwilling to go to a division on this question without
 1070 1071 1072 1073 l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l., d. s. d., 1074 1075
 LORD J. RUSSELL , in explanation, said, that no doubt the change from twelve hours to eleven must be a loss to the operatives. But no one could say what would be the amount of that loss at any particular time.
 MR. BOUVERIE  rose to ask the Lord Advocate the questions of which he had given notice, and which he begged to say were founded upon the fact of a paper having been printed and circulated amongst the parishes in Scotland, the object of which was to obtain written replies from persons applying for relief to twenty-three queries contained in it. He would not
 981
 LORD G. BENTINCK : The hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has charged my friends around me with making themselves parties to a great party move, and says, that the interest which they take in this subject is easy to be discovered in the
 1020 1021 l. l. l. l.; l., s. d. s. s. d. 1022 s. d. s. 1023
 MR. HAWES , pursuant to the notice he had given on Thursday, begged to ask the right hon. the Secretary of State for the Home Department what course the Government intended to pursue with regard to the Metropolitan Buildings Bill, and when the right hon. Baronet meant to introduce the amended Bill?
 MR. STRUTT  thought that there was some difficulty in the words of the Standing Order, "be appointed." But, looking to those words, the general sense and intention of the Standing Order, and the invariable practice of the House, he could not think the House would have any difficulty in deciding this question. He could confirm what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman (Sir G. Grey); the words were precisely the same in the orders relating to each of the three Committees. When he, as Chairman of the Committee on Private Bills, came down in 1845 to put the Motion that the Private Bills Committee be appointed, he was told by the proper authority that the only Motion was that the Standing Order relative to the appointment of that Committee be read. That was done; and, the order having been read, the Committee was considered as appointed, it being his duty to read to the House the names of the Members of the Committee. No other course could be taken, because it was not competent to the Speaker to put a question which the House had not the power to negative. The proper Motion would be that the Standing Order be repealed; and, that being carried, then the House would have had the power to negative the appointment of the Committee on Private Bills. The only way of making sense of the Standing Order in question was to proceed as the House had proceeded in this case. Nor was any alteration in the order required, because the Chairman of the Standing Orders Committee and the Chairmen of the Sub-Committees on Petitions for Private Bills constituted,  ex officio, 992
 MR. BANKES  said, that in giving his support to the principle of this Bill, which was now under the consideration of the House, and in opposition to the Amendment, he thought it was incumbent upon him to prove, that while it proposed to confer benefit on the operative classes, it would
 999 1000 1001 "If in voting for this Bill, I vote for the destruction of manufactures, then I shall be voting for the ruin of myself and family." 1002 1003
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he was not satisfied with the statements made on this subject by Gentlemen engaged in the trade. The hon. Member for Sheffield, who he supposed was an amateur manufacturer, had quoted Adam Smith; but he forgot to add that Adam Smith, nearly at the same place, had said that when a manufacturer worked his labourers to an extent that was injurious to their health and minds, it was a losing game for both. After forty years' experience, he could safely assert that he had never known an instance where he had made men work to meet an extra demand, that he had not himself been a loser by it. He was not at all satisfied with many of the statements which he had heard in that House to-night, and least of all by those which were made by certain hon. Members who were themselves manufacturers. He could not pretend to explain the motive of the proceeding he had witnessed; but he was aware that an impression prevailed in certain quarters to the effect that those who took part in the Anti-Corn-Law movement had made a
 1080
 MR. AGLIONBY  did not agree with the hon. Gentleman that it was particularly the duty of the law officers of the Crown to take part in the discussion. It was not a mere question of law. In a case of this sort, the law officers were of no higher authority than any of the other Members of the House. The forms of the House were drawn up by the House, and the law Members were not responsible for them. He wished, however, to advert to a point arising upon the interpretation of the words, "be appointed." The observation of the hon. Member for Derby with respect to this part of the subject, had much weight; but as the hon. Member for Kendal interpreted the phrase, the conclusion to be naturally deduced was, that the proceedings of every Committee appointed under the Standing Orders were null and void. If the Committee of Selection had no legitimate authority, every Committee emanating from it was equally deficient. It had nominated Committees on all the groups, and consequently all the Railway Committee proceedings of the Session were irregular. Now, certainly, he might be told that a remedy was at hand—that all this might be set to rights by a rule of the House, by a special Bill. But that did not affect the principle of the argument. If the hon. Member for Kendal was right, all the Committees had acted without having power to act. So far as the verbal argument on the words "be appointed" went, he conceived that the Committee had been legally and constitutionally appointed according to the mean-
 994
 MR. WARBURTON  thought they should argue this question quite irrespective of the consequence it might have on the case of Mr. S. O'Brien. The plain question was this, whether the Committee of Selection had been appointed or not? The hon. Member for Oxford had stated that the House had in various instances recognized the existence of the Committee during the present Session: that was true; but "a blot is not a blot till it is hit." It was not so clear that the House would have been perfectly satisfied with the Committee of Selection if it was believed to sit unsupported by any vote of that House. If the construction which the hon. Member for Oxfordshire contended for was the true one, that no appointment at the commencement of the Session was necessary, then
 989
 MR. BRIGHT  said, there was one observation made by the hon. Member for Finsbury in which he entirely concurred—and that was, that this was about the most important question which this House or any Legislature could be called upon to decide; and it was because he (Mr. Bright) held that opinion that he ventured at that very late hour, after so much had been said, to rise and offer some observations to the House for the purpose of stating some things which he believed were much more true, and a much more exact representation of that which existed in the manufacturing districts of the north of England, than the House had heard from the promoters of the Bill either to-night or on the other night when it had been debated. He had listened to the speech of the right hon. Member for Edinburgh with considerable astonishment. He confessed he was apprehensive when the right hon. Gentleman rose
 1051 1052 1053 1054 1055 1056 London Gazette 1057 1058 1059 1060 esprit du corps
 MR. FIELDEN : I said nothing about a compromise.
 MR. FIELDEN : Yes.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  thought, that the argument of the right hon. Baronet would go to establish the Standing Orders Committee as a more powerful tribunal than had ever before been imagined. He thought that this debate would excite an unfortunate impression in Ireland. He was not going to use words of idle bluster, but he submitted that it might be well to consider feelings — he did not say rightly — but which were certainly exceedingly excited and exasperated. The matter was one of grave doubt, and the hon. Member concerned ought to be allowed the benefit of it.
 MR. COBDEN : The noble Lord, in reply to the right hon. Baronet, contended that this Bill would not, in fact, interfere with the labour of adults. He believed it was ascertained by the experience of our past legislation, that, practically, to legislate for persons under the age of 18 was to legislate for adults. That was not known till lately; but, practically, a Bill to limit the hours of labour for persons between the ages of 12 and 18, was stopping the engine for all persons above that age. He should not like hon. Gentlemen to be under any misapprehension as to the effect of the votes they were likely to give; he dared to say they might think that they had placed him in a very awkward position, and that he must give an unpopular vote by voting against the Bill. But he wished them not to make any mistake in their calculations, or incur any undue unpopularity, for he was satisfied that a grosser delusion was never palmed upon the working classes than had been systematically disseminated on this snbject. He would not say that it was designedly so, because the persons concerned in the short-time agitation had some peculiar notions of their own with respect to—he would not call it political economy, for he could not dignify it by that name, but they had some peculiar doctrines by which they believed that the legislation of that House could in some way parcel out the labour of this country, control wages, limit quantity, and maintain prices. The originator of this agitation was Mr. Oastler; at least he followed in the wake of Mr. Sadler. Mr. Sadler, it was well known, was directly opposed to the principles now in the ascendant, that
 1076 "Have you formed any opinion with respect to the effect this Bill will have on wages?—I have a decided opinion on that point. My own opinion is that it will not lower wages; I think it will raise them. Not even in the first instance?—In the very first instance. There will be a battle between the two parties; the masters will expect them to work at lower wages, and the men will stand out.—Of course, then, the Bill must in some degree diminish the profits of the masters, must it not? I do not know that at all. I believe they are now competing with one another in such a degree, that if they would work less they would get more profit." 1077 s. 1078 1079 l. l.
 MR. ESTCOURT : I believe it is necessary for me, without any apology to the House, to endeavour to show the grounds on which I think that the Committee of Selection was duly appointed, and has discharged its duties as Committee of Selection during the whole of the present Session. I conceive that there has been nothing irregular in the course of proceeding; but that all has been strictly conformable to the law and usage of Parliament. I should take blame to myself if I were to stand up and defend what has been done, merely because it has been done, and because I wish to establish our regularity;
 986 987 988
 MR. MACAULAY : Sir, I am very desirous to have an opportunity of explaining on what grounds and to what extent I am prepared to support the Bill before the House. I hope it is unnecessary for me to preface what I have to say by declaring that with any unjust aspersions, such as the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Ward)
 1029 1030 pococurante 1031 1032 1033 l., l. 1034 1035 à fortiori, 1036 1037 1038 1039 1040 1041 1042 1043 1044
 MR. WAKLEY , after the eloquent, argumentative, and conclusive speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Edinburgh, should address as few observations as possible to the House, upon the subject under discussion. He was surprised, however, he confessed, that hon. Gentlemen on that and the other side of the House; who had advocated unlimited factory labour on former occasions, did not jump up and contradict him when he sat down. Interference with labour had been deprecated. The whole system of social
 1046 1047 A laugh. 1048 1049 1050
 MR. WAKLEY : I beg your pardon, I made no assertion of the kind, and received no application from my constituents.
 MR. WAKLEY  thought that this was a question which ought not to be decided without a part in the debate being taken by the law officers of the Crown. If the question were not discussed and decided according to the principles of common sense, and the ordinary construction of the words of the Standing Order, great dissatisfaction would be the result in this country, and still greater in Ireland.
 993
 MR. WATSON  observed, that it might be true that the practice had gradually grown up without observation; but in proceeding criminally in the matter, it behoved them to look carefully into the wording of the Standing Order; and for his own part he entertained some doubts as to whether in this case the true construction had been put upon it. He found that it laid down as the rule that a Committee "be appointed" each Session—meaning, as he took it, an
 997
 SIR G. GREY  could only agree with the hon. Member who had just spoken to this extent, that the words of the three Standing Orders were precisely the same. In each case the words were, "that a Committee be appointed;" but the practice of
 990 991
 MR. WARD : But in the next breath he added, that there would be a rise in prices, though not a considerable one. "The additional cost to the consumer, he said, would not be great: 1 d. d. 1011 "Letting I dare not wait upon I would;" 1012 l. l. s. primâ facie 1013 Le Peuple. "In 1842, there was a crisis in the cotton trade. There was a complete glut. The warehouses were bursting. There was no demand. The manufacturer could neither keep his works open nor stop them, for he had to pay interest on borrowed capital, whether he worked or not, and he made bad worse in sheer despair. Prices fell without producing a customer, until they reached 3 d. 1014 l. l. 1015 Cheers and laughter, Sir Robert Inglis pointing to Mr. Fielden. Valet et quantum 1016 1017 s. s.; l. l. 1018 s. s. 1019
 MR. WARD  had no wish to misrepresent the hon. Member; but he understood him to say "that he disapproved of the principle of the Bill of his hon. Colleague, because it interfered with adult labour, and thought that the clauses seemed to have been framed for the special purpose of defeating their own object; but that he should support it, because the working classes required it, and they were the best judges of their own interests." To this doctrine he could not assent. He held that they had higher interests to look to, and higher duties to perform, and he did perform them to the best of his ability, He did not know what was meant by a settlement out of doors. What was the test of settlement? The noble Lord (Lord John Manners) had had the goodness to furnish them with one test, nine days ago, for he said that every question must he considered as "settled," upon which he (Lord John Manners) happened to agree with Lord Grey, Mr. Carlyle, and Mr. Feargus O'Conor. He had the greatest respect for the Members of this quadruple alliance; but they must learn to agree amongst themselves before they could expect to impose their opinions upon other people. He feared the noble Lord had made the common mistake described in an old quotation, and that he could sometimes
 "Compound for sins he was inclined to, By damning those he had no mind to." 1005 l. 1006 1007 vexata questio; 1008 1009 1010 "He (Robespierre) destroyed all competition, by fixing a maximum of price; and, by a series of harassing interferences and restrictions, which it has never been pretended that he believed otherwise than necessary for the public good, he reduced the industrious classes to a state of poverty, helplessness, and starvation. His measures were popular, because they had the show of an immediate benefit, and of a kindly care for the poor. He prevented 'overwork.' The Government was omnipresent—noting a citizen's means—giving or taking away—providing for his necessities, instruction, maintenance, amusement — wrapping the full grown man in the swaddling-clothes of the infant—making a sort of 'happy family' of 30,000,000 of people."
 MR. WARD : No; the hon. Member will probably take eleven hours, if he cannot get ten; but he says he prefers ten, and is no doubt sincere in his recommendation. He then told us what he expected to be the result of the change. He said, "there would be no diminution of profits—no diminution of wages—no diminution of production. That was the result of his experience."
 MR. WARD  said, he had listened with great attention to the very temperate speech by the hon. Member for Dorsetshire, in the hope of finding in it reasons for reconsidering those opinions upon the question then before the House, which placed him in opposition to the views of the working classes of the town which he had the honour of representing. He gave his opponents the full benefit of that admission. To the best of his abilities and understanding, he represented in that House the true interests of the working men of
 1004
 SIR J. GRAHAM  replied that the Bill of last Session had been submitted to Mr. Hargreave, who recommended that it should be cut up into four parts, which should be brought in as separate Bills. That had accordingly been done, and two of those Bills were in course of preparation, and would be ready for presentation to the House in the early part of next month. The object of the first would be the regulation of buildings. The second related to the official referee and the general machinery for carrying the law into effect. The third related to the property
 983
 SIR J. HANMER  concurred with the right hon. Gentleman in the opinion that they ought not to be so fanatical on the subject of free trade as to suppose that they were never to interfere for the purpose of conferring benefits on their fellow subjects. The right hon. Home Secretary (Sir J. Graham), however, pointed out, a
 1045
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  stated that he quite agreed with the views of the right hon. Baronet, and with those of the hon. Member for Derby. The hon. Gentleman who had spoken last talked of a doubt being entertained on the subject; but the fact was, that with two or three exceptions, every hon. Member who had spoken had agreed upon the point. As to the legal Members, the hon. Member for Cork stood alone in his view of the subject. No doubt the construction of the Standing Order was capable of improvement; but was there any hon. Gentleman who would maintain that its common sense interpretation, as demonstrated by the practice of the House, was such as to justify the sense in which it was attempted to be construed by the hon. Member for Cork.
 SIR R. PEEL : I think that the noble Lord (Viscount Pollington) has mistaken the purport of the observations of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Devonport. I do not think that that right hon. Baronet stated that the point involved considerable doubt. On the contrary, I think that what he said was, that as to the merits of the case, there existed no doubt, although he admitted that better terms than the words "be appointed" might have been advantageously used in the Standing Orders. Now, the real difficulty is as to these words, "be
 995 996
 SIR R. PEEL : I shall detain the House hut a very short time; but the importance of the subject is so great, that I
 1062 1063 1064 1065 1066 1067 "Your memorialists are suffering unparalleled distress in consequence of the unprecedented low rate of wages and the present high price of provisions; that such are the sufferings and misery of the operative bakers throughout the country, that they labour eighteen hours out of the twenty-four; that the average weekly earnings of the best workman is only 9 s., 1068 1069
 VISCOUNT MORPETH : I hope the House will allow a Member, who represents a vast body of workmen, and a great variety of manufacturing interests, and who had not an opportunity of giving his opinion on this Bill when it was discussed two years ago, to make a short trespass on their notice. I own I regard with a considerable feeling of envy those Members who, on either side of the question,
 1024 1025 1026 1027 1028 "In the extensive and populous counties of Yorkshire and Lancashire, the chief seats of the great staple woollen and cotton manufactures, the large decrease of commitments in 1843 and 1844 has continued; and there is a decrease in 1845, which arises chiefly in Yorkshire, of 6.9 per cent.; and, comparing the two last periods of three years, of 19.1 per cent. In the adjoining counties of Chester, Derby, Nottingham, and Leicester, where the silk, lace, and hosiery manufactures are chiefly carried on, a considerable decrease is shown in each county, which last year reached 22 per cent on the aggregate, and 13.2 per cent on a comparison of the two last periods of three years. The decrease has also extended to Staffordshire, Warwickshire, and Worcestershire, the seats of the principal hardware, pottery, and glass manufactures, and the adjoining county of Gloucester. In this district, the aggregate decrease in 1845 was 13 per cent, in the two last three years of 9.6 per cent."
 LORD J. RUSSELL : In the assurance that every Member of this House will participate in the feelings expressed by the right hon. Gentleman, I shdll simply content myself with seconding the Motion he has now submitted to the House.
 MR. P. BUTLER  wished to say a few words at the request of his hon. Friend the Member for Limerick; and he hoped that they would put no serious impediment in the way of the Motion before the House. He congratulated the right hon. Recorder of Dublin on the manner in which he had come forward to rescue a fellow countryman in distress. He (Mr. P. Butler) as an Irish representative, might be allowed to say that, in his opinion, it was the duty of Irish Members to attend to the business of the Empire generally, and as much to the affairs of England and Scotland as of Ireland. With his hon. Friend, however, a serious question of principle was involved. He was under the impression that the House had acted illegally, unconstitutionally, and without precedent, in committing him. He took exception to the latter part of the Motion which regarded the payment of fees to the Sergeant. He thought that
 1200
 MR. O'CONNELL  believed he was quite accurate in stating that the amount of crime recently reported from Ireland was considerably diminished, and he wished to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet and of the House to the fact. He attributed it mainly to the attention paid by Government to relieve the wants of the people in various localities, as well as to the amount of private subscriptions in other situations. The peasantry of Ireland were duly sensible of the kindness and sympathy thus evinced, and to this cause he attributed a considerable diminution of crime. The conduct of Government in relieving the wants of the people had tended to diminish crime, and he believed had done more than could have been accomplished by a severe execution of the laws.
 MR. WILLIAMS  complained that taking the Miscellaneous Estimates first was a departure from ordinary course of procedure, and a very inconvenient one. The Estimates had only been delivered at his House on Saturday; he had not seen them till this morning, and he had not yet had an opportunity of reading them. He had never known an instance in which the Miscellaneous Estimates were taken before the Army and Navy Estimates. In a case where there were several hundred different items to go through, it was a perfect farce to place them in the hands of Members only a few hours before the discussion.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  did not think the Government had treated the House very fairly in this matter. It was usual always to begin with the Navy Estimates; and he remembered that on one occasion an hon. Member opposite objected because the Army Estimates were proposed to be taken before the Navy Estimates; and he induced the Government of the day to alter their course, and take the Navy Estimates first. It was now proposed to postpone not only the Navy Estimates, but the Army Estimates and Ordnance Estimates also, in order to bring forward the Miscellaneous Estimates. He must say that this was taking advantage of the confidence of the House in a way very unusual. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War had, in the course of the Session, proposed several items of the Army and Navy Estimates at one o'clock in the morning, and they had been allowed to pass without discussion. It was certainly not expected, when he obtained those votes of credit, that when the time for regular discussion came, they would be postponed without any previous notice. This was certainly no inducement for the House to allow the Government to abuse their confidence in this way in future.
 MR. WILLIAMS  said, that he had in former years objected to the sums inserted in the Estimates for the conveyance of colonial bishops from this country to their sees abroad; and he had particularly objected to the sum of 600 l. 1205 l. l. l. l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Both for inquiry and relief. A great portion of that sum was in aid of private subscriptions. As to fees for dignities, the great majority of them were carried to public account; that was only a mode of raising a contribution for the expenses of the establishment. Another portion went to the law officers of the Crown. It was necessary that the commissions of Colonial Governors should be framed under legal advice. He saw no reason to change the course which had hitherto been pursued in that respect.
 MR. WILLIAMS  objected to the large grants which from time to time had been given for Marlborough House; and he thought, considering the large allowance which the Queen Dowager received from the country, that it would have been unnecessary to lay out anything towards the repairs or embellishment of that establishment. He objected, also, to the cathedrals of Scotland being repaired at the public expense; and he should propose that the Vote be reduced by 5,000 l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that the point just mooted was entirely beside the question; because what he said was, that in all cases of Queen Dowagers the invariable rule was, not only to give the income, but a palace, or house equivalent to a palace, the external repairs of which were defrayed at the public expense. [Mr. HUME: Why did they not defray the internal repairs?] The object was, to keep the building from falling into a state of dilapidation; and the uniform practice had been, to defray this expense out of the public revenue. The internal repairs stood on an entirely different footing.
 MR. WILLIAMS  condemned the system of ventilation adopted in the Committee-rooms, where Members sat from day to day, with a large fire on one side, and cold air rushing in from 10,000 holes on the other. It was perfectly impossible for any one with safety to sit there. He had no faith in Dr. Reid's system: it was all quackery. Not a single building had he ventilated where the greatest complaints had not been made. Year after year, they were expending large sums of money in order to prepare the new Houses for their accommodation; he wished to know when it was probable they would be fit for occupation?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  stated the uniform rule to be, that the external repairs of the Queen Dowager's jointure-house were defrayed by the Crown.
 CAPTAIN CARNEGIE  informed the hon. and gallant Member that the Commissioners had made a report, which had been submitted to the First Lord of the Treasury and the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but no steps had yet been taken to carry it into effect.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  adverted to the fact, that the first Order of the Day was the Second Reading of a Bill called the Protection of Life (Ireland) Bill. It would be remembered that Her Majesty, in Her Speech from the Throne, on 22nd January last, stated the increase of the crime of deliberate assassination in Ireland, and advised that measures should be adopted to put an end to the progress of a crime so dreadful. He need not state that they had now arrived at the 25th of May, and the House had not yet heard any statement from a Minister of the Crown regarding the Bill for the Protection of Life in Ireland. He should have thought that when so serious a measure was proposed by Government, they would have deemed it necessary to inform the House why it was introduced, since it was to the full of as much importance as any vote in the Miscellaneous Estimates, which it seemed were nevertheless to have precedence. Ministers ought either to make some statement of their Bill, or if they had seen reason to change their minds, they ought to inform the House of the fact. It seemed hardly consistent with their duty to the Crown and to the House to leave the matter entirely unnoticed, putting it off, perhaps, to the month of July, when the general massacre of measures would probably commence. It appeared unadvisable for the House to entertain a measure of this severe description without coming to some determination upon it. Having given the fullest consideration to the subject, and having consented to the first reading of the Bill as proposed by Ministers, he (Lord J. Russell) had come to the conclusion that it was his duty to oppose the second reading; but it was absolutely necessary, for the sake of Ireland, and with reference to public expectation there, that Ministers should state what were their intentions.
 MR. A. CHAPMAN  objected to sinking 3,000,000 l.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the charge for the passages of foreign and colonial bishops arose in this way. It was considered proper that they should be taken out in Her Majesty's ships of war; and it not being considered right that the commanders should make out a bill against each bishop they took out, the moderate charge for their passage was transferred to the public account. As to the expenses incurred in entertaining foreign princes, the charges defrayed by Her Majesty on this head never came before the public; but there were certain travelling expenses necessarily incurred, which came properly under the head of a public charge. With respect to the charge for the Commission of Inquiry into the state of the potato crop in Ireland, the sum mentioned was transferred to the Lord Lieutenant, in order that he should take all necessary steps for averting, if possible, or, at all events, mitigating the effects of the calamity which threatened that country.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the reason for taking the Miscellaneous Estimates first was that, at this advanced season of the year, it was important that the Miscellaneous Estimates should be voted without delay. He had no objection, however, to
 1204
 MR. CARDWELL  was afraid he could not give the hon. Gentleman any distinct assurance as to the precise time when the New Houses would be ready, but the utmost exertions were being used for the purpose of expediting their completion. The Committee had also been engaged in investigating the advantages of Dr. Reid's system of ventilation.
 MR. CARDWELL  proposed, that a sum not exceeding 20,000 l.
 MR. PROTHEROE  thought they were all deeply indebted to Dr. Reid for his success in ventilating that House. Speaking only for himself, he must say, the air was peculiarly agreeable. He did not say the atmosphere was a pure one; but that could not be wondered at when they remembered that it was fed on one side by the burial-ground of St. Margaret's, and on the other by what was little better than a great sewer—the river Thames.
 MR. SHAW  said, that he had collected on Friday night, from the intimation of the noble Lord the Member for London (Lord J. Russell), as well as from the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, that it was the wish of the House that the discharge of Mr. Smith O'Brien should be moved the present evening, before the commencement of the public business. He would, in the first place, assure the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the county of Cork (Mr. O'Connell), that, although his notice was the first given, and stood first on the Paper, he would willingly have given way to the hon. and learned Gentleman, and felt no rivalry in the matter; but on looking at the two notices, he conceived that his was worded in a manner more likely to prevail with the House, and that was his only object in claiming the precedence. He would, then, in a very few words, state to the House the grounds on which he moved for the discharge of Mr. Smith O'Brien, the time he had chosen for the purpose, and the form in which he had framed the Motion. In all those respects, he hoped to have the general, indeed he hoped the unanimous, concurrence of the House. The ground of his Motion, then, simply was, that the authority of the House had been vindicated, and Mr. Smith O'Brien sufficiently punished by twenty-five days' imprisonment. The time he (Mr. Shaw) had selected was when the Committee which the House had ordered Mr. O'Brien to attend, had closed its labours; and although, in point of form, the Committee had not, as he (Mr. Shaw) expected they would have done, that evening made their final report, yet his hon. Friend the Chairman of that Committee (Mr. Henley) would be prepared to state in his place that the business of the Committee was really finished; and as to the form of the discharge, he had copied his Motion from the established precedents of the House, neither taking from them, nor adding to them any words with respect to fees to meet the particular case of Mr. Smith O'Brien. He would make one observation, injustice to the feelings of Mr. S. O'Brien, and that was, that he had given his notice without the slightest acquiescence or knowledge on the part of Mr. Smith O'Brien; and further, he believed that it was contrary to the wishes of Mr. Smith O'Brien, that he was then making the Motion for the hon. Member's release. Nevertheless,
 1199 "That William Smith O'Brien, Esquire, in custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms attending this House, be discharged out of custody, paying his fees."
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had answered every question but this — was it, or was it not a rule, where a house or a palace was granted to an individual for a limited period, that in that case the external repairs were done by the public; but that, in the case where the grant was for life, the expense was borne by the individual?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  wished to put a question, of which he had not been able to give notice, and which perhaps could not be answered at the moment. If so, he should be content to wait until a future day. It had been stated in the public prints that the Spanish Government had sent out instructions to Cuba to place discriminating duties on English goods and vessels in Cuba and Porto Rico. The information he asked was—whether Government had any reason to believe that such instructions had been sent out, and that steps had been taken to carry them into effect?
 MR. HENLEY , as Chairman of the Committee on Group XI., had great pleasure in assuring the House that no more business remained to be done than would occupy about two hours to-morrow. What remained was merely of a formal nature; and he had, therefore, great satisfaction in seconding the Motion of the right hon. Member for the University of Dublin. The House would be glad to hear that no great public inconvenience had resulted from the absence of the hon. Member for Limerick from the Committee, however public affairs might have suffered from his absence from the House. The hon. Gentleman seemed wisely to have preferred his own company for twenty-four hours in the day to the company of the Members of the Committee for only four hours in the day. He hoped he had profited by it.
 MR. HUME  thought that the Colonies should be left to regulate their own fiscal duties. They should be given to understand that, if they exceeded the means at their own disposal, the deficiency should not be supplied at the expense of this country. Among the items there was one of which he highly approved—a reward of 10 l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. HUME  objected to the charge of 100 l. l.
 MR. HUME  wished to know whether the fresco decorations would be confined to the House of Lords?
 MR. HUME , seeing a charge of 2,400 l.
 MR. HUME  would be sorry if the House of Lords should be more ornamented either by fresco paintings or statues than the House of Commons.
 MR. HUME : No; I would rather be as I am.
 MR. W. S. O'BRIEN  ordered to be discharged.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Treasury, and he trusted the right hon. Gentleman would not think he was too pressing in bringing it forward at this early period of the Session. He wished to know what measures they were to expect for the amelioration of Ireland, and more particularly whether they might expect that any measure would be introduced during the present Session to carry out the recommendation of the Land Commission on the subject of the law of landlord and tenant. The objects to which he would especially refer the right hon. Gentleman as having been suggested by the Commission were—1st, the amendment of the laws of distress; 2nd, the amendment of the laws of ejectment; 3rd, compensation to tenants for improvements; 4th, commutation of lives renewable for ever into perpetuities; and 5th, powers of leasing to be given under certain limitations to tenants for life, and corporations. He should like to hear from the right hon. Gentleman some intimation as to whether measures for the promotion of these objects, or any of them, were to be brought forward in the course of the present Session.
 SIR C. NAPIER  inquired whether any progress had been made by the Commissioners for constructing harbours of refuge on the south-east coast?
 SIR R. PEEL  had seen the statement in the newspapers, and went to the Foreign Office in consequence to read the last despatches. They certainly did not bear out the statement in the newspapers; but before he gave a positive answer he wished to make a further reference to the despatches, and to-morrow he would be prepared to state the exact fact. The despatches he had seen did not show that any discriminating duties had been imposed adverse to England.
 SIR R. PEEL  was much obliged to the hon. and learned Gentleman for so handsomely doing justice, on the present as on a former occasion, to the efforts of Government. He would not now enter into any argument as to the cause of the decrease of crime in Ireland; the hon. and learned Gentleman attributed it to the attention of Government to the wants of the sufferers, but others might perhaps find a different cause in the promulgation of the fact that the Protection of Life Bill had passed with the almost unanimous consent of the House of Lords.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, there was no wish whatever on the part of Government to take the House by surprise; and, if it was preferred, the House might take the Civil Contingencies, and then the Ordnance Estimates. The reason why he did not suggest the Army Estimates was, that an hon. Member (Captain Layard) who had two Notices on the Paper with reference to them, was not present.
 SIR R. PEEL : I think the hon. Gentleman, particularly from the deep interest he has taken in the subject to which he has referred, and from the noble example he has set as a landlord in Ireland, is fully entitled to put these questions. I can assure the hon. Gentleman that this subject has occupied much of the attention of Her Majesty's Government, and he is himself aware what has been our chief occupation since the meeting of Parliament, and also of the disadvantage which for a time was experienced in consequence of a change in
 1197
 SIR R. PEEL : The House is probably aware that an event has taken place this day which will, I am sure, fully justify me in making a Motion without any notice whatever. That Motion is, that this House do present an Address of Congratulation to Her Majesty on the addition to Her domestic happiness by the Birth of another Princess. Sir, I well know the deep feelings of loyalty towards the Sovereign which prevail in this House, as they prevail in every other part of the United Kingdom. I well know how those feelings of loyalty are exalted by the high personal esteem, respectful attachment, and admiration for the manner in which Her Majesty discharges every duty, whether of a public nature as Sovereign, or in domestic life. I shall, therefore, without further preface, and in the full confidence that my Motion will meet unanimous acquiescence on the part of this House, move that an Address to the effect I have mentioned be presented by this House to Her Majesty.
 SIR R. PEEL  observed, that in justice to Government the noble Lord ought to bear in mind the circumstances that had hitherto prevented them from naming a day for the second reading. Only on Friday week the Corn Bill had been read a third time, and on Monday last the Customs
 1202
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  thought that the House would act most prudently by confining its consideration to the question whether any further object would be gained by continuing the commitment of the hon. Member for Limerick. He had yielded precedence to his right hon. Friend (Mr. Shaw) solely in the belief that the discussion would be limited to that point. His impression, confirmed by all that had passed, was deep regret that it had been found necessary to subject a Member to restraint, and thus to interfere with the discharge of his duty towards his constituents. All that would influence him would be the consideration whether it was necessary for the maintenance of the authority of the House that the restraint should continue. He felt bound to say that it was not, and should therefore give no opposition to the Motion in the hands of the Speaker. He had been prepared to take this course irrespective of the auspicious event referred to by the hon. Member. He apprehended that the claim for the usual fees would have been made and enforced, whether the Motion had come from his right hon. Friend or from the hon. and learned Member for Cork; and the protest would prevent any personal acquiescence in what seemed opposed to principle in the mind of the hon. Member for Limerick. He rejoiced in the opportunity of permitting him to resume his functions in the House, entertaining a sincere belief that the authority of the House had been sufficiently vindicated, not merely by the punishment inflicted, but by the almost universal feeling among Irish Members that they were entitled to take part in the Legislature for the whole Empire. Not a
 1201
 SIR R. PEEL  could not share in that jealousy. As a Member of the House of Commons he hoped convenience would be consulted rather than ornament. Much must depend on the form of the buildings and the numbers to be accommodated. It must be recollected that the House of Peers was the apartment in which Her Majesty opened Parliament; and the height and whole character of that apartment was more fit for decoration than the House of Commons. The former House of Lords had its walls covered with tapestry; he did not think extravagant ornament would be at all suited to the British House of Commons. Still it should be handsome and magnificent. The object of the Commission was to encourage the fine arts, and they had no wish that any space really available should be thrown away. The hon. Member for Montrose was very jealous of any distinctive ornaments in the House of Peers; would the hon. Gentleman like to have a red robe with ermine on it?
 SIR R. PEEL  believed there were two or three compartments in the House of Lords to be appropriated to fresco paintings. The Victoria Gallery was under the consideration of the Commission; but they wished, before they committed themselves to any general plan, to see the effect in those two or three compartments which had been dedicated to frescos.
 SIR R. PEEL  did not think the House of Commons would afford the same scope for fresco decoration as the House of Lords. There had been a Committee of the Commission for the purpose of selecting subjects from history for fresco paintings; the Committee had made a report; but the Commission had not yet come to a final decision.
 MR. O'CONNELL  wished to ask a question of Sir James Graham. A melancholy circumstance had occurred in Ireland, in which two human beings had been shot to death by the police, under the orders and by the sanction of the sheriff, in the county of Tipperary. He wished to ask whether any report explanatory of the circumstances of this melancholy case had been furnished to the Government; and, if so, whether the Government felt justified in laying such a report before the House. But if no report had been received, he would ask whether any steps had been taken to require the officers of the Crown to institute an inquiry into the circumstances?
 MR. HUDSON , who moved that the House be counted, and only twenty-seven Members being present,
 MR. LABOUCHERE  repeated his question to Sir R. Peel of a former night, whether there was any foundation for the
 1287
 MR. EWART  rose to move Resolutions to the effect that the present system of making the Colony of Van Diemen's Land a general receptacle for convicts should cease, and that transportation should no longer be maintained as a punishment; but be continued only as a supplement to the previous punishment of imprisonment. On a previous occasion, he called the attention of the Government to the state of Van Diemen's Land. Since then he had presented a petition setting forth the sufferings of the population of that Colony; he therefore felt justified in bringing the question forward, not only, however, on that ground, but because it was a question deeply involving the moral state of the Colony, and calling imperatively for legislative interference. If the question were put,  à priori, "Holding our West India Colonies to be one of the worst stains in the moral history of mankind, a convict Colony seems to me to be even more
 1289 l. l. l. l.; 1290 "I brought out to this place (Van Diemen's Land), when I returned to it from England, upwards of eighty criminals, who had been under the excellent system pursued at Parkhurst for two or more years. The voyage was, with few exceptions, delightful to me, in the promise it gave of the well-doing of these boys; but before a year was over their head, scarcely half a dozen out of the fifty-two who were retained here (the others were sent to New Zealand) had not been under punishment." "It is cheering in the midst of the horrible moral and spiritual evils that surround us, to find that there are highminded and commanding spirits who sympathize with us. There is yet hope that with God's blessing our evils will be at least ameliorated, cured they cannot be in this generation."
 SIR J. GRAHAM : I can assure the hon. and learned Gentleman that he cannot more deeply and sincerely deplore the event which has occurred than I do. The officer under whose authority the seizure of the property was made was the under-sheriff of the county, and the police and soldiers acting on that occasion were under his immediate orders in his capacity of under-sheriff. They were, indeed, a part of the  posse comitatus, 1288
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that as to whether the Spanish Government had sent out any directions to Cuba, Her Majesty's Government had received no information; but they had had communications from the British Consul at Cuba, stating that from the 1st of March last new regulations were adopted there, both with respect to the Tariff and to the tonnage of importations; but those alterations were not directed particularly against British shipping or British goods. They applied indiscriminately to all shipping and to all goods. In some cases the duty was lowered, and in others it was raised. In the opinion of the Consul, the alterations in the duty did not particularly affect the British merchants. In the case of linens the duty was lowered, while, with respect to cotton goods it was increased; but the produce of all countries was equally affected, and it did not appear that the alteration had been adopted as a retaliatory or hostile measure towards this country.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  felt it his duty to oppose the Motion of the hon. Member, and, upon this simple ground, that a remedy was provided by the Act of Parliament introduced by the noble Lord the Member for London calculated ex-
 1416
 MR. DUNCOMBE  said, that the House had already agreed to an inquiry into this matter; and the question now before the House was, whether the Committee should not be required to carry it a little further, and endeavour to ascertain whether any means had been resorted to for withholding the consideration of bribery and treating alleged to have taken place. Well, what were the reasons for refusing it? It was said that Lord J. Russell's Act enabled him to inquire under certain circumstances: that might be quite true, but there was nothing in that Act to relieve the House from the responsibility of inquiring under other circumstances. It was the right of the subject that there should be such an inquiry. There had been a petition charging bribery and treating; but that was evaded by the Committee not going on with the inquiry. Was it intended to be laid down, that if Members of that House rose and made out a  primâ facie
 SIR W. JAMES  should vote with the Government on this question, as he did not think any ground had been laid by the hon. Member for Oxfordshire. Rockett had only called on the House to inquire into the circumstances attending his own vote, and not into any more general matters; and in the absence of any such request, as the Act of Parliament was so decisive, he should vote against the hon. Member for Oxfordshire.
 MR. V. SMITH  adverted to the appointment of Mr. Rogers as additional Under Secretary in the Colonial Office. He thought the Office ought to have been remodelled, rather than a gentleman nominated in disregard of the claims of those who had long been connected with the department, and who had efficiently discharged their duties. Mr. Rogers had been Registrar General under the Joint Stock Act, and had hitherto had nothing to do with the Colonial Office.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  wished the right hon. Gentleman had given him notice of his intention to introduce the subject. It was proposed to appoint an Assistant Secretary in the Colonial Office, for the purpose of aiding Mr. Stephen, particularly in reference to Colonial Acts. Mr. Stephen had pointed out the necessity of having a person to look after these. The gentleman who held this appointment would also perform the duties of Third Commissioner of Emigration, without receiving any additional salary. An appointment which had lately fallen vacant in the Colonial Office had not been filled up, and new arrangements were in contemplation for remodelling the Office, and reducing the number of the chief clerks.
 MR. LAW  was of opinion that the Committee had had, under the Act, full power to inquire into the cause of the abandonment of the charge of bribery. Words which gave them that authority were introduced into the first section, and as industriously excluded from the fourth; but the Committee, instead of inquiring, as they were authorized to do, adopted the extraordinary course complained of in the petition of Rockett—they did not receive the evidence of the poll-clerk, which would have decided the question; but, acting on the evidence of a stranger to the record, they shifted the vote of Rockett from one poll to the other. He thought that the House should not allow this opportunity to escape of ascertaining whether there had been a compromise or not.
 MR. BOUVERIE,  thought that this being a case in which an investigation was going on most intimately connected with the interests of private individuals, if the evidence were reported from time to time, they would only be giving to the world one-sided statements, which might be contradicted by subsequent evidence, but in the mean time might do much injury to the parties concerned. He must say that he did think it a hardship on the parties mentioned in the evidence that there should be parties in the Committee-room taking notes for the purpose of publishing the evidence; and he did think that it was worthy the consideration of the Committee whether they should not prevent any notes being taken; he believed that they had the power to do so, and he thought that justice to the parties demanded it.
 MR. S. WORTLEY  said, what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman appeared to him an additional reason why the Amendment of the hon. Member for Ox-
 1419
 MR. BANKES  seconded the Motion, and insisted that the House was bound to inquire into this case, in order to vindicate its conduct in the eyes of the public. It had been stated in the previous debate by the hon. Member for Nottingham (Mr. Gisborne), that the practice of "jobbing the votes" before Election Committees was quite notorious, If such were the case, that was another reason for inquiry, in order to see what amendment of the law was necessary to prevent this system being acted upon. It might be said that the Act commonly known as Lord John Russell's Act would afford a sufficient remedy. He denied that it would, for it could only be brought into operation if an elector of the borough would run the risk of subjecting himself to the forfeiture of 500 l.,
 MR. HENLEY  rose to move the following Amendment, to add at the end of the question after the word "Romilly"—
 "And whether any means were resorted to by parties to the Petition, or others, for withholding from the consideration of the Committee matters
 1415
 MR. HUME  said, the right hon. Baronet had done all he could to draw the House away from the real question, which had nothing whatever to do with the party influence formerly exercised; because, whatever way the inquiry asked for might be decided, the seat could not be affected by it. The real question at issue was the credit and character of that House. The right hon. Baronet said, it was open to the electors to petition; but the time for petitioning expired on the 6th of June, and the adjournment for the holidays was until nearly that time.
 MR. ETWALL  did not see any objection to the publication, in an abbreviated form, of the facts as they came before the Committee. This was a public Committee; the public were admitted by the Committee to hear the evidence, and, that being the case, he could not conceive what harm could arise from the publication of it in print. He thought it would be much better for the persons against whom charges might be made in the course of the evidence to have those charges appear in print in an authentic form.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  had voted in the
 1413 ex parte
 MR. WAKLEY  said, that when the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) said that a Parliamentary reason ought to be given for this Motion, the House would remember that there was the same reason for it that there had been in the case of the Committee which sat in 1836 and 1837 on the administration of the Poor Law. The right hon. Baronet was a Member of that Committee, he believed; and he was sure that the right hon. Baronet would recollect that after every sitting of the Committee the evidence had been reported to the House by Mr. Fazakerly, the Chairman of the Committee. He was sure that would be in the recollection of hon. Members, and, that being the case, he considered that it was for the right hon. Baronet to show why the precedent established on that occasion should be departed from on this. It was for the House
 1411
 MR. WAKLEY  denied that there was no new matter before the House; but, after all, the real question was, whether the House desired to be left in ignorance of what their own tribunal had done. The character of the House was suffering through the conduct of the Committee. He gave them credit for the best intentions; but out of doors every one was laughing at the decision of the Committee. They were bound to inquire whether the tribunals they had established for the trial of election cases were efficient. If it turned out that the Committee in this instance had discharged its duty, the investigation would redound to the credit of the House.
 SIR D. L. EVANS  reminded the House
 1417
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  bore witness to the extreme approbation which the noble Lord opposite had earned from the Committee, and every Member of it, by his conduct as Chairman. He did not believe that any Member of the Committee would put in exercise either of the two powers which the right hon. Baronet had so kindly reminded them that they were invested with; he believed they would neither exclude the public nor seek to treat the publication of the evidence as a breach of privilege. He trusted the House would support the views of the Committee.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that the hon. Member (Mr. Wakley) had referred to the precedent of 1836 and 1837. Now, he (Sir J. Graham) had an indistinct recollection of what had occurred on that Committee, but, if he remembered rightly, he opposed in the Committee the Motion for reporting to the House from day to day; and the Motion which it was now sought to obtain the assent of the House to was the first Motion of the kind since that precedent had been established. Undoubtedly the Committee might either exclude strangers, or if, admitting strangers, they found any of them taking notes of the proceedings for the purpose of publication, there could not be a doubt that such a publication
 1412
 SIR J. GRAHAM  wished to hear from the noble Lord some explanation respecting this Motion. He understood that the first time the Motion for printing the evidence was made in Committee, and at a full meeting it was rejected by a majority of six to four. [An hon. MEMBER: No, by the casting vote of the Chairman.]
 1410
 MR. PAKINGTON  said, that perfect harmony had prevailed in the Committee, much of which he thought was attributable to the courtesy and good judgment with which the noble Lord had conducted himself in the chair. He (Mr. Pakington) had voted on both divisions against reporting to the House from day to day, on the ground that it was not for the public good that evidence so deeply affecting the parties mentioned in it should be published until the whole of it could be presented to the House. It would be the much better course for the Committee to put an end to the partial publication of their proceedings. He was bound to state that he entirely agreed with the right hon. Baronet, and should vote against the Motion.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, the natural impulse at first was, of course, to accede to any proposition to inquire into alleged bribery and corruption; and the question now was, whether or no they should appoint a Committee to determine whether or no there had been bribery at the Bridport election. Fortunately in this case there was no party or personal feeling to interfere with the dispassionate decision of this case. But while they were naturally anxious to inquire into allegations of bribery, they should not lose sight of the natural tendency there was in a popular assembly to decide questions by party feeling, nor of the circumstances under which, in the time of Sir R. Walpole, the power to decide on disputed questions of the sort was given to Election Committees. He ventured to say, that if the House were to resume the right of jurisdiction, the time would soon come when the decisions on such questions would again be decided by party and political considerations, and not by justice. The House could not have forgotten the time when a regular canvass was resorted to in order to obtain a majority. It was to stop such proceedings that the House had divested itself of the power of giving the decision of such matters to Committees appointed  pro hac vice, 1418
 LORD COURTENAY,  as the organ of the Committee, did not feel justified in doing otherwise than taking the sense of the House on the Motion which he had been ordered to make as Chairman.
 VISCOUNT COURTENAY  observed, that the right hon. Baronet was quite correct in stating that the question was before the Committee on two occasions; that on the first occasion the numbers for and against the Motion were equal; and it was rejected by his casting vote. On the second occasion the numbers were six to four in favour of printing the evidence. He still retained his opinion, that in the circumstances of the case it was not expedient that such a Motion should be carried. At the same time, he was bound to state that the Committee was sitting with open doors, that the public were allowed to come in, and that reports of the proceedings of the Committee found their way to the public. Those reports were of course not in an authentic shape, and were often inaccurate, and there could be no doubt that an authentic account of the proceedings, coming from the Committee itself, would be the means of furnishing correct information both to the House and the public. He must, however, state, that he had made this Motion as the organ of the Committee, and not on his own responsibility.
 VISCOUNT COURTENAY  moved, pursuant to notice, that the Andover Union Committee have power from time to time to report its proceedings to the House.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  spoke as follows: Sir, I avail myself of this the last opportunity, previous to the separation of the House for the holidays, for the purpose of bringing before them that annual statement of the finances of the country which is expected from the individual who holds the situation which I have the honour to fill. I am afraid the statement I have to make will have but little attraction, except from the general bearing of the subject with which it has to deal on the welfare of the country. I am not able to embellish it with anything novel, since the House has already, in previous discussions, been made acquainted with the details of those parts of the subject which are of most interest to the community. The House has already been informed by my right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Treasury, of the reductions then intended to be made in the different duties of Customs. Those reductions have been embodied in an Act which has already passed this House, and which now only waits the
 1430 l. 1431 l.; l.; l.; l.; l.; l.; l.; l.; l. l., l. l., l.; l., l.; l., l. l. l. l., l., l., l., l., 1432 l. l.; l. l. l., l. l., l., l.; l. l. l., l. 1433 l. l. l. 1434 l. l. l. 1435 l., l., l.; l. l., l. l. l. 1436 l. l. l. l.; l.; l.; l. l.; l. 1437 l. l. l.; l., l. l. l., l., 1438 seriatim l. l. l., l., l., l. l., l. l.; l., l. 1439 l.; l. l. l. l.; l.; l., 1440 l., l., l.; l., l.; l. 1441 1442 1443 l.; l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. 1444 l.; l.; l.; l., s. 1445 l.; l.; l., l. l. l., l., l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l., l., l. l. l., l. l. l.; l.; l.; 1446 l., l. l., l.; l. l. l. l. l., l.; l. 1447 l., l., l.; l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.; l.; l. l., 1448 l. l., l. 1449 l.; l., 1450 1451 1452 "That, towards making good the Supply granted to Her Majesty, there be issued and applied to the service of the year 1846, the sum of 253,738 l. s. d.,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that upon two points to which the right hon. Gentleman referred he should say a few words. There were certain Estimates, as well of the Navy and Army as of the Ordnance, in which it appeared that the expenses of three quarters were only charged; but that possibly at first view those expenses might be supposed to include the charges of the whole year. That statement of the right hon. Gentleman was correct as to some of the Estimates; but he must be aware of the reason why that took place. The hon. Gentleman knew that Commissioners had been appointed to investigate that branch of the public service, and to put it upon a proper footing with respect to several of its accounts, and that a balance-sheet of the Naval Estimates and expenditure was regularly made in conformity with the recommendation of those Commissioners. The arrangement made was that, in the case of the Navy, they should only charge three quarters, and not for the whole year; this was of course done without any additional vote of Parliament on the subject, and it was thought right, at the same time, to limit each department within itself, and cause those departments to pay over each its own surplus at the end of the year. Of course if, instead of there being a surplus, there happened to be a deficiency, then the department would be entitled to draw for the amount of such deficiency; and in the latter case it was the practice to apply to the House of Commons for a supplementary vote, to make good the deficiency. This had hitherto worked beneficially for the
 1461
 MR. WILLIAMS  observed that he had been disappointed as to the extent of the proposed expenditure for the next year. He thought that it would be materially reduced. Taking an average of the years 1834, 1835, and 1836, he found that the expenditure over that period was annually not more than about forty-four millions of money, less, by six millions, than that proposed for the expenditure of the next financial year. The hon. Gentleman went on to contrast the expenditure upon the army and navy of this country with that of the United States, and to express a hope that the relations between the two countries
 1469 l. l.; l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. JAMES : The noble Member for Lynn had stated that the difference between the sugar duty of 25 s. d. s.,
 LORD G. BENTINCK : Sir, I certainly cannot object to the increase of the naval or military establishments of the country. I think, when we recollect that it was chiefly to the observation of Mr. Calhoun to the Congress of the United States, to the effect that we had a fleet of 667 ships, while they had but 47, that our present pacific relations with the States was brought about, and on that account I do not wish to see a diminution of the navy; but I must say I do think the surplus of 773,000 l., l., 1464 s.; s. s. l. l. 1465 s. s. s. 1466
 LORD G. BENTINCK  rose to put a question to the First Minister of the Crown, which might appear at first sight to impugn the fair dealing, frankness, and truth-telling of a Member of Her Majesty's Government; but he had reason to think, from the explanation he had already received, that no such imputation could rest upon the Earl of Dalhousie, to whom his question referred. It was probably within the knowledge of every Gentleman in that House, that a statement had been made last night by the Earl of Dalhousie, that the Canadian Colonies were perfectly satisfied with the commercial policy of Her Majesty's Government, and that, so far from entertaining any feeling of apprehension and alarm, all that the Canadians asked was, that the nominal duty of one shilling, which was proposed to be retained on Canadian and other wheat, should be reduced to a penny. That was the statement which they had all probably seen imputed to the Earl of Dalhousie; and he (Lord G. Bentinck) might state, that he had heard it with his own ears. Now, the question which he had to ask of Her Majesty's Minister, was this—whether or not the Canadian mail had not arrived, bringing an Address to Her Majesty, which had been unanimously voted by the Legislative Assembly of Canada, of which the first paragraph ran in terms something like this:—
 "That this House views with most serious apprehension and alarm, and as detrimental to the future peace and prosperity of these Colonies, the adoption of the proposed principles of commercial intercourse now under the consideration of the Imperial Parliament?"
 MR. LAWSON  said, his statement on a former evening as to the rejection of Yorkshire potatoes from the London market was received with incredulity, if not derision. Since that time he had had an opportunity of investigating the particulars which he gave, and he then rose for the purpose of confirming by name every one of the assertions which he then made. Having mentioned to the noble Member for Lynn that he should make some statement as to the supply of potatoes to the London market, his noble Friend, with that kindness which always distinguished him, said, "Here is a letter from Yorkshire which you had better take charge of." The noble Lord did not know the writer. He (Mr. Lawson) did; and as he knew him to be a respectable man, and that he would not assert anything which was not true, he took on him to confirm his assertions. He was asked to give the name of the individual, but he refused to do more than pledge himself to the accuracy of his statement. He was now happy to be enabled to inform the House that the writer was one of the greatest potato growers in England, and well known, as he found on inquiry, to the salesmen in Tooley-street. His name was Robert Scholefield, of Sand Hill, near Howden, and he grew from 1,300 to 1,500 tons of potatoes annually. One of the organs of public opinion had animadverted on his statement; but he had previously written for a confirmation of the assertions made in the letter to his noble Friend. The answer which he received was most satisfactory. The name of the person who sent the cargo of potatoes to London was Mr. Meggit, of Howden. He did not see why the potatoes of a tradesman of Howden were not as likely to be as good as if sent by anybody else. They were landed at Cotton's-wharf, and consigned to Mr. Liddell. He had taken the trouble to go down and have an interview with the persons interested, and had at that moment the bill of sale in his hands. The potatoes were shipped from Hull on the 17th March, were sent back from London on the 14th April, and arrived in Hull on the 24th April; and he had the bill of prices for which they had been sold at Leeds. Some of those potatoes had been sold for 46 s., s. Vigilant, 1428 s.
 MR. C. WOOD  considered it would have been the better course if the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had apprised the House exactly of the state of the case, for now they had no correct information of the annual expenditure which was to be set against the annual income. He begged to remind his right hon. Friend, that when he said it was a usual course to vote three quarters instead of four, such was not the practice of the navy, for the custom was to vote the four quarters, although the money might not be actually paid before the 31st of March. The practice had ever been to vote the year's expenditure on the year's income. He did not find fault with the Estimates, but he found fault because the whole annual expenditure was not stated. The right hon. Gentleman had calculated the amount of customs duties repealed and reduced at two-fifths of the sum previously given. The whole sum being 1,041,000 l., l., l. l. 1467 l. l.
 MR. CARDWELL  could not help feeling surprised that the right hon. Gentleman should take so gloomy a view of the future. He (Mr. Cardwell) should have thought that when the hon. Gentleman found that the removal of taxation pressing on the industry of the country had been productive of great prosperity to all classes of the community, and also of a corresponding increase in the revenue, he would have come to a conclusion respecting the future more analogous to the past than he had done. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had confined himself entirely to those items of expenditure which were anticipated to occur within the current year. The Estimates before the House were only for three-quarters of a year; and in confining themselves to that period they were following precedents which it was desirable they should observe. The money voted in the year was expended in that year. In the Estimates which had long been before the House, the fullest details had been given; and it was from those Estimates the hon. Gentleman had obtained all the information he possessed on the subject. The House should confine itself to the simple consideration of the present financial year, and
 1468 l., l. l.
 MR. BANKES  said, the right hon. Gentleman would recollect that it was distinctly understood that an opportunity should be given of discussing the principle of the Poor Removal Bill. That could not be done if the debate were confined to the Motion of the hon. Member for Maldon; and he trusted that, in assenting to the course proposed by the Government, he should be understood as doing so in the anticipation of having an opportunity for fully discussing the general principle of the measure.
 MR. HUDSON , at that late hour was unwilling to occupy the House at any length; he would therefore confine himself to a few general observations. The House should feel much indebted to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Portsmouth, in having called their attention to the very important omissions of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer; whose statements he (Mr. Hudson) did not think were
 1470 1471 1472
 MR. HUDSON  thought that the statement made by the hon. Member as to the falling-off in the quantity of potatoes imported into London by the river, might be explained by the circumstance that much of the country produce was now conveyed by railroad.
 DR. BOWRING  wished to know from the right hon. Baronet the First Minister of the Crown, whether any Treaty had been signed between the Russian Government and the Ottoman Porte, equalizing the duties paid by foreign nations under the existing capitulation, and removing, the disadvantages under which British subjects have laboured?
 ALDERMAN HUMPHERY  congratulated himself on the opportunity he had given the hon. Member to make an explanation, which he believed the House would think was something like the produce of the mountain in labour. Instead of being satisfied by the statement of the hon. Member, he impugned it again. The potatoes were not landed at all. The facts of the case were, that a gentleman named Meggitt or Maggot, who combined a number of trades in his person, thought that there would be a scarcity of potatoes, and therefore went to a potato grower and bought fifty tons at 88 s. Vigilant. s. l. s. s. l. s. s. d. 1429 l. l. l. l., s. l., l., l.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  begged to give
 1422
 MR. HUME  expressed a strong desire that the Poor Removal Bill should have precedence, as he knew that great anxiety was felt upon the subject in agricultural districts. He recommended that the Irish Coercion Bill should be postponed to other business, with a view to save time. If the right hon. Baronet intended to stop all the useful business of the country for the sake of that measure, he would find himself involved in new difficulties. He stated not only his own opinion, but that of almost everybody out of the House. There was hardly one person who did not express a hope that Government would not interfere with the progress of the Poor Removal Bill.
 MR. HUME  said, it was known to the public, through the newspapers, that the President of the United States had received directions to give notice to this country that the regulations which now existed for the joint occupancy of the Oregon territory should terminate within a year. He wished to know from the right hon. Baronet, the head of the Government, whether the American President had given notice to this country of the intended termination of the existing convention respecting this territory?
 MR. HUME  had no objection whatever to the statement made by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. It appeared to him to be fair and intelligible. As the subject of Deficiency Bills had been mentioned, he (Mr. Hume) would say, as he had stated before to the right hon. Gentleman, that it was of the utmost importance to free the public from the necessity of going to the Bank. The right hon. Gentleman had stated correctly that there had been an increase in taxation to the amount of 5,624,000 l.; l., l. 1462 l., 1463 l.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, of the Poor Removal Bill, that it had been originally settled, as he thought, to proceed with it,  pari passu
 MR. CHRISTIE  asked whether the Poor Law Commissioners had made any inquiry into the circumstances of the case formerly referred to at Barrow-on-Soar, and whether any steps had been taken in consequence of the inquiry?
 SIR C. NAPIER  begged to observe, that more than twelve months ago, a proposal had been circulated by the Board of Admiralty to the effect, that a retiring allowance would be given to those naval officers who thought proper to send in their resignations. A number of officers, in accordance with this proposal, had sent in their resignations, but had as yet received no intimation whether they had been accepted. He wished the Government would urge upon the Admiralty the propriety of stating what were their intentions relative to these applications, or, if they were not to be acceded to, to return the letters of the applicants, that they might not stand in judgment against them.
 MR. F. T. BARING  stated that there could be no doubt that the mode of presenting the financial statement on that occasion was different from that which was pursued in former years, for it was customary to lay on the Table of the House the estimates of the amounts for the various services, and then obtain the sanction of the House to provide for those charges, and thus the amount required was known. After this was done, it was the custom for the Chancellor of the Exchequer to state the amount of the revenue, so that the House might deal with any surplus that remained. He could not help making this observation on the present occasion, as he protested against adopting the present course as a general rule, as he thought the old course was by much the better and safer. No doubt there were specific reasons on the present occasion which rendered it necessary to depart from the usual course; for after the state of things in December last it was impossible, from regard to the commercial interests, to pursue the usual
 1453 l., l. 1454 l. l. l.; l.; l., l. l. 1455 l.; l. l. l., l., l., l. l. l. 1456 l. l. l. l.; l., l.; l. l. 1457 1458 l. l. 1459 l. l., 1460 l.;
 SIR G. GREY  wished the right hon. Baronet to state what was intended by the Government with respect to the Poor Removal Bill. It had been a long time before the House, and there was a great deal of interest felt in it out of doors; and it was therefore desirable that the country should be informed what were the intentions of the Government with respect to it.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that the hon. Member for Malton (Mr. E. Denison) had given notice of an instruction to the Committee on the Poor Removal Bill, and if it were carried, it would be indispensable to alter the whole framework of the measure. It must be recommitted  pro formâ,
 SIR J. GRAHAM  replied, that the Poor Law Commissioners had instituted an inquiry into the circumstances of the case referred to, and had received a report from an Assistant Poor Law Commissioner on the subject. In accordance with the suggestions contained in that report, the Comsioners had determined, if the master of the workhouse did not tender his resignation, to order his immediate dismissal.
 SIR R. PEEL : My impression was, that the Admiralty made a certain proposal with this reserve, that unless a certain number of officers accepted that proposal, the Admiralty had the entire power to set it aside. The number required not having accepted the proposal, it has accordingly fallen. My impression was, that the Admiralty had publicly notified that it was not to take effect, and that they had under their consideration some other plan.
 SIR R. PEEL : I have great pleasure in giving the noble Lord all the information I possess upon the subject on which he has just put the question. I had yesterday made an appointment with the Secretary for the Colonies, to meet him at half-past one o'clock this day; and when my right hon. Friend attended that meeting, he brought with him a letter from Lord Cathcart, containing an Address to the Crown—I know not whether unanimously adopted or not—but of the general purport to which the noble Lord has referred, namely, expressing apprehension at the consequences of the adoption of the commercial measures of Her Majesty's Government. I certainly understood my right hon. Friend to say, that this despatch had reached him in the course of the morning; but for myself I must say that, at any rate, I had no knowledge of its arrival till two o'clock to-day. When the noble Lord was good enough to state to me that he would put the question, I told him that I thought it probable the Earl of Dalhousie had no earlier knowledge of the purport of the despatch than I had; but since then I have received an assurance that my noble Friend was entirely unaware of the receipt of this despatch at the period when he spoke last night. It must be obvious that when despatches arrive, especially at a late hour, it is quite impossible that their contents can be simultaneously communicated to the Members of the Government, however important they may be. If there is not to be a meeting of the Cabinet on the day of their arrival, they are put into circulation among the Members of Government, and some time must necessarily elapse before they all receive information of them.
 SIR R. PEEL  admitted frankly that he had justified some expectation that the Poor Removal Bill would be brought on on an early day; but he hoped the House would make allowances for the difficulty of the position of Government. He and his Colleagues were ready to devote sixteen or eighteen hours a day to their public duties in the House; still they had hitherto only had two days in the week for Government business. So anxious was he to fulfil every expectation he had raised, that he was ready to take the Poor Removal Bill on
 1423
 SIR R. PEEL : In answer to the question of the hon. Gentleman, I beg to state that the American President has given notice to this country that the termination of the existing convention should take place at the end of the year. In giving that notice, however he has adopted the terms which were ultimately assented to by both Houses of the Legislature of the United States, viz., that the Notice shall be given with the view of leading to an amicable adjustment of all the differences and disputes in respect to this territory.
 SIR R. PEEL : The best possible answer
 1424
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he should give the earliest day after the Irish Bill had been disposed of to the Poor Removal Bill.
 SIR R. PEEL  rose to move, in pursuance of notice, that the House at its rising do adjourn to Friday next, and took that opportunity of explaining in what order it would be his duty, on the part of the Government, to propose to bring on public business immediately after the recess.
 The EARL of LINCOLN  replied, that the Government had received information from the Poor Law Commissioners of the circumstances to which the hon. Member referred—that inquiry had been made into the circumstances, not by the Government, but by the Poor Law Commissioners—that Mr. Symons, the Assistant Poor Law Commissioner, had been instructed to make the inquiry on the 9th of May last—that he proceeded to make the inquiry on the 19th, and reported on the 25th—that the Poor Law Commissioners had received the complaint of the ratepayers on the 1st of April — that some correspondence took place between them and the Poor Law Commissioners in the interval between that and the 16th or 17th—that on the 18th the Commissioners referred the case to an eminent counsel for his opinion, and this opinion they did not receive till the 9th of May, when they immediately ordered an inquiry. He (Lord Lincoln) had no objection to produce, not only the report and evidence, but the whole correspondence, which should all be laid on the Table as soon as possible.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  agreed with the hon. Member for Oxfordshire that it was more convenient in general to discuss the principle of a Bill on the second reading, and reserve for the next stage the questions properly belonging to it. But he did not see that the hon. Member would now be precluded from making any objection to the Bill which he might think proper. The right hon. Baronet said if the instruction were carried, the Bill would have to be remodelled, and it would then be a comparatively new Bill. If the hon. Member for Malton should fail, however, it would then be quite competent to the hon. Member for Oxfordshire to take an opportunity of obtaining a night for the discussion of the general principle of the Bill.
 COLONEL WOOD  was sorry that the resolutions of the hon. Gentleman had been brought forward to prevent the discussion of the question as to the removal of the poor. When the right hon. Gentleman at the head of Her Majesty's Government intimated what was the nature of the measure to be proposed in regard to the poor, he stated that the question which would be submitted for their consideration was the simple abstract question, whether the House would or would not relax the law of removal so far as to enable persons whose industry had benefited a parish to acquire a settlement there. The object was that they should be exempt from removal. The hon. Gentleman proposed to substitute a union for a parochial settlement; but in nine cases out of ten, poor persons were permitted to reside in the parish where they happened to be when application was made for relief to the parish of their settlement. But the hon. Gentleman stated that by the adoption of a system of union settlements, litigation would be avoided. The hon. Gentleman said there were nearly 630 unions, and the litigation would no longer be between parish and parish, but between union and union; but there could not be a more fertile source of litigation than the transfer of authority in such matters from parochial bodies to the clerks of the unions, whose profession was that of the law. The time was approaching when further changes would be introduced in reference to the relief of the poor. It had been proposed that the schoolmaster and schoolmistress of the union should be paid out of the public funds; but there were also the expenses of the medical establishment and other items which might be transferred to the same account. In 1817 he had served on a Commission which reported that funded property was liable, as well as other property, to pay its quota to the support of the poor, if it could be properly apportioned. He consequently hoped that the Bill would be reduced to the naked question, "yes or no, will the House remove the poorer classes or not, after they had lived a certain time in these parishes?" He firmly believed the day was not far distant when funded property would be made liable, as well as every other kind of property,
 52
 MR. RICE  condemned the cruel and unjust operation of a system which encouraged a disposition to drive out persons likely to become chargeable from parishes with which they had long been connected. In the parish where he resided, there were many labourers who belonged to large parishes in the neighbourhood; but, as they lived in those parishes, they would not become chargeable on that which benefited by their industry, while at the same time the market for their labour would be circumscribed by the apprehension lest they should acquire a settlement in the parish where they were employed. He was convinced that union settlements would be a great encouragement to industrious labourers, and would tend very greatly to improve their general character and condition. He would not vote for union settlement unconnected with this Bill; but he trusted that the Bill would not pass without being remodelled in such a manner as to embrace this proposition.
 MR. V. SMITH  doubted whether it were expedient to take an average of seven years in preference to three years. It had been in the course of the present discussion made a matter of accusation against some hon. Members that they had, on former occasions, expressed disapprobation of the proposition which they were now prepared to support. He begged to say that he had never heard of any such disapprobation having been expressed. No disapprobation had reached him, except the disapprobation which was expressed by the public through the newspapers. Moreover, it could not be said that, with reference to the present instruction, the public or the House had been taken by surprise; on the contrary, the instruction had been talked of previous to the Whitsuntide recess. It must be well known to hon. Members that the subject had for a long time occupied the attention of the public. It was a plan, however, which he could not help saying was well calculated to do mischief to the measure now before the House—no plan better calculated to have that effect—nothing more damaging to the interests of the measure. There was another point which he found it difficult to avoid noticing, viz., the fact that the Bill now before them had been mixed up with the discussion
 68 69
 GENERAL JOHNSON , in seconding the Motion, said he was sure if the House was aware of the evils which arose from transferring large bodies of destitute poor in seasons when trade was depressed, from the manufacturing to the rural districts, it would pause before it agreed to the Motion of the hon. Member for Malton. He would therefore cordially second the Motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury, as he was perfectly satisfied that the only way to give entire satisfaction would be for Parliament to abolish all law of settlement whatever.
 SIR T. D. ACLAND  thought the Motion of the hon. Member for Malton entitled to the fullest consideration. It was, therefore, his intention to vote that the Bill should be considered in Committee, though he did not regard himself as bound to adhere to the provisions that either the hon. Member for Malton or any other Member might propose for attaining his object. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. E. Denison) proposed to rate the various parishes of a union, not according to the actual property of the individual ratepayers, but according to the proportion now existing, not disturbing that, but maintaining as between them the  status quo. 87
 LORD J. RUSSELL  observed, that before he went to a vote on this measure, he wished to guard himself, as his hon. Friend the Member for North Devon had done, against being bound thereby to any future vote. The question before the House was a very difficult one, and certainly the difficulty had not been diminished by the course which the right hon. Gentleman (Sir James Graham) had taken. He believed the House was generally agreed on one point, namely, that when a man had for many years laboured in a particular parish, he should not be sent, when incapable of labour, to a different parish in which he might have been born. The right hon. Gentleman proposed in his Bill that this should be done by making persons who had resided five years in a parish irremovable. Upon this his (Lord J. Russell's) hon. Friend stated that there were certain localities in which such a provision would tend to the clearing of estates, the pulling down of cottages, and throwing an undue burden on the populous parishes in the neighbourhood. In these cases great hardships would be introduced by the Bill. But when his hon. Friend proposed to remedy these evils by a union instead of a parochial settlement, he owned that he felt such a strong objection to the proposal, that he did not think that he should, but for the course taken by the right hon. Gentleman, have made up his mind to give his vote in favour of the proposition. The House would recollect that there were many parishes in which there was a great accumulation of labour, which was only provided for at present by the good management, prudence, and humanity of those
 93 94 95
 MR. G. BERKELEY  wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary respecting the puritanical attempt now making in different parts of the country to close the Post Offices on Sunday. The question he wished to put was, whether it was in the power of the Postmaster General to close the Post Office on Sunday, and prevent the delivery of letters on private solicitation?
 LORD G. BENTINCK : Sir, the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has endeavoured to reflect on the agricultural interests. In answer to the charges made by my hon. Friend against the millowners of Stockport and other manufacturing towns, the hon. Gentleman has appealed to the reports of the Government Commissioners sent down to Stockport, as affording evidence of the good conduct of the millowners and manufacturers when labouring under great depression; but I think the hon. Gentleman must have remembered the report made by Mr. Trimmer, one of the Factory Commissioners, who, in speaking of the injuries done to the operatives in the factories in Stockport, says there were in the years 1837, 1838,
 84 85 l. l. 86
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that although he agreed with what had fallen from the noble Lord (Lord John Russell), the Member for the city of London, he thought that his noble Friend had been rather severe upon the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department, in charging him with having changed his opinion. The right hon. Gentleman had informed them that he had brought in a Bill last year which he considered to be a sound one, but that he had to withdraw it, because the country did not approve of it, and that he had during the present Session introduced another Bill, although he considered it to be unsound, for the purpose of meeting the wishes of the country; and that he had now fallen back upon his original proposition, finding that it was likely to be approved of — therefore he (Lord J. Manners) thought that his noble Friend was rather severe upon the right hon. Gentleman in charging him with having changed his opinion. He wished to call the attention of the House to the state in which hon. Members might be placed, who would too implicitly rely upon the Government carrying all measures with the same reckless regard of consequences as they had shown in pressing forward a measure on a late occasion. What would be thought, he asked, of the manner in which the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department had come forward on the part of the Government, to the aid of the Motion of their professed opponent of the measure then before the House? Whatever might be the advantages or the disadvantages of the Motion of the hon. Member for Malton, he was not then prepared to accede to it, as he was much more disposed to agree with the Amendment of the hon. Member for Finsbury, and should he press for a division, he would support him with his vote.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the principle involved in this Bill, or rather in this instruction, was not in want of any notoriety, for it was very freely canvassed last year. He had himself consulted every board of guardians in North Warwickshire upon it, and, with scarcely an exception, they all disapproved of it. Though he did not agree in all that had fallen from the hon. Member for Northampton (Mr. Smith), yet he considered that he had advanced almost the only argument on which a union settlement could be defended. He agreed with the hon. Gentleman, that if they must have a union settlement, they must also have a union rating. In reference to this resolution or instruction itself, it appeared to him, he confessed, to be completely a one-sided resolution, and that the advocates of it were contradictory, inasmuch as they were in favour of a union settlement, but, at the same time, for a retention of a parochial rate. He could answer for his own constituency being not one which was more reconciled to this union settlement now than they were last year; and was persuaded that, if it were adopted by the Government, it would lead to a deep and well-founded discontent.
 MR. PACKE  said, that as this question had never been treated as a Government Motion, he thought it very strange that, on this occasion, the Government should, without giving any notice, adopt, as a measure of their own, that which contemplated a change of such vital importance in the whole system of parochial settlement. He thought that the country ought to be made well aware of the intended change; and it was most preposterous, no matter what good or what evil might arise from the measure, for them now to come to a division on the question. He could not, at the same time, help thinking that acrimony and litigation were evils likely to arise between parishes with regard to settlements. By this measure they were only making enlarged parishes. The noble Lord who had just spoken, had instanced parts of the country in which he lived, in
 72
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member for Finsbury has quite correctly stated the practice of the House, that it is not competent for a Member to move an instruction to a Committee when it is competent for the Committee itself to entertain his Motion; but I am of opinion that, in the present case, it is necessary for the hon. Member for Malton to move his instruction in order to enable the Committee to entertain the subject.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  observed, that the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down stated he had not deserted the Bill; but he was of opinion that he had not only deserted the measure, but that such desertion had not been his first. He had seen in the division that night a Lord of the Treasury and a Lord of the Admiralty voting on different sides of the House. He was not aware those official persons ought to have been found where they were seen. The Government would, perhaps, think so, as respected one at least. For himself, he was glad to find that hon. Gentlemen were sufficiently independent to exercise their own opinion; and he trusted that they would eventually resolve to shake off their subserviency in other matters.
 MR. C. WOOD  said, that he for one was inclined to support the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Malton; but being greatly in favour of the present Poor
 65
 MR. STRUTT  was as anxious as any hon. Member to see the Poor Laws improved, and to see that alteration so generally demanded with respect to the removal of the poor; but he, at the same time, did not wish to find defects obliterated by a still greater abuse; and he feared that by passing the Bill in its present shape, without such an Amendment as that proposed by his hon. Friend, they would
 54
 MR. BANKES  would not venture to offer any observation upon the point which had just been raised after what had fallen from the Chair; but, in another respect, he ventured to object to the hon. Member for Malton having precedence on the present occasion. It would be in the recollection of the House that it was distinctly understood, when they allowed the Bill to be read a second time without discussion, that at the present stage of the Bill there should be a discussion on the whole principle of the Bill; and, undoubtedly, if they allowed the present opportunity to pass, another might not arise. If the hon. Member for Malton succeeded in his Motion, the opportunity of discussing the principle might be lost. Waving, therefore, for a moment, the point raised by the hon. Member for Finsbury, he submitted whether he ought not to have, on the ground he had already stated, precedence over the hon. Member for Malton. His right hon. Friend the Home Secretary would, he was sure, bear him out, that when they last parted, it was distinctly understood that an opportunity was to be afforded for making observations on the principle of the Bill. It was upon that understanding that the Bill had been allowed to reach its present stage.
 MR. BANKES  was anxious to hear the opinion of Her Majesty's Government on the question of removal, and therefore regretted the interposition of these resolutions, which had so inconveniently interfered with the discussion of the general question. He opposed the adoption of them, simply on the ground that nothing could more effectually prevent the employment of labourers. Those who were practically acquainted with the Poor Laws knew that the farmers were now employing more men than they required, because they thought it better to employ them than support them in the workhouse. If they were all amalgamated, that reason would cease to operate, and the labourers would be all left in the workhouse together. He agreed with the hon. Member that thousands of farmers would be awakened from their apathy by the measures which were passing; but they would not awaken to find relief in such propositions as those, and they must look to a different system for the support of their labourers.
 MR. BANKES  agreed with the hon. Member who had just sat down, that the adoption of the proposition of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. E. Denison) would almost infallibly upset the Bill on the present occasion, and consequently could not but feel surprise that the Members of the Government should give that proposition their support. The right hon. the Home Secretary had said that it was a proposition so distasteful to the country at large, so much disliked by the agricultural interest, that he had been compelled to abandon it before; and yet he was willing to make it part of a Bill, which was to be a premium (for the term "compensation" was now repudiated) to the agricultural interest for concessions they had made; and the hon. Member for North Devon seemed disposed to vote for this proposition, endangering, nay, insuring the rejection of a Bill to which he professed himself friendly. He was also friendly to some of the provisions of the Bill; but he would carry it further in Committee, disliking, with the hon. Member for Halifax, this new and anomalous
 88
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the hon. Member for Finsbury had made a speech, from
 80 81 l. l. 82 83
 MR. J. E. DENISON  was most anxious in every way to consult the convenience of the House; and he had only given his notice in accordance with the advice of the Speaker. He begged altogether to disclaim any intention of getting rid of this measure by his proposed instruction, as had been suggested by his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury. Nothing could be further from his thoughts, as he was most anxious for the success of the measure, if accompanied by certain modifications, without which it appeared to him not to deserve the support of the House. He thought that it would be more convenient for the House to discuss his Motion before discussing the principle of the Bill, because, as the right hon. Baronet had told them, if the instructions were agreed to, the Bill would have to be remodelled, and the previous discussion of the principle would then have been a waste of time. He would, therefore, with the leave of the House, proceed. In the first place, some confusion arose from the title of the Bill. It professed to be a Bill for the removal of the poor; yet its first principle, they were told, was non-removability—a word not known to the English language, and which he hoped he would not have occasion to use a second time in that House. It was also said to be a Bill which did not affect the law of settlement, but it certainly did incidentally affect all who paid and who received poor-rates. It was introduced as a measure which was to be serviceable to the country districts, as regarded great towns. It was introduced at the same time as the Corn Bill, and was received with much approbation by hon. Members who sat on the Government side of the House. Now, as to this question between the town and country
 45 "It is impossible not to be struck, in visiting the dwellings of the agricultural labourers, with the general want of new cottages, notwithstanding the universal increase of population. Everywhere the cottages are old, and frequently in a state of decay, and are consequently ill-adapted for their increased number of inmates of late years. The want of sufficient accommodation seems universal; a great many cottages have only one bed-room; the consequence is that it is extremely difficult, if not impossible, to divide a family so that grown-up persons of different sexes do not sleep in the same room; three or four persons frequently sleep in the same bed." "The want of proper accommodation exists in
 46 "The want of good cottages, where the members of a family can live separate, is a great cause of demoralization: where grown-up members of the same family are continually occupying the same room, modesty and delicacy and sense of shame are soon put to flight; where these are absent, and dirt and disorder take their place, a gradual declension in good morals and character succeeds, and the whole family sink perceptibly to a lower grade in character and conduct." "In Studley I found twenty-nine people living under one roof, amongst them married men and women, and young people of nearly all ages. In Studley it is common for a whole family to sleep in the same room. In Foxton things are different. The people in Foxton are much more moral, orderly, and better disposed. The wages are the same, and the employment the same. I attribute the difference to the circumstance of each family in Foxton occupying a separate tenement, with sufficient accommodation, while this is hardly ever the case in Studley." "Castle Acre is what is called an open parish—that is, in the hands of a considerable number of proprietors, while the neighbouring parishes are each owned by one or two (or very few) proprietors. These last, partly in order to prevent an increase of birth settlement, and to keep down the rates, partly from an unwillingness to invest money in cottage property, not only allow no new cottages to be built, but let the old ones fall into ruin. The resident population of these parishes is thereby gradually reduced, as the labourers are forced to quit them and come to reside in Castle Acre. Thus, while in the adjoining parishes there are not hands enough left to cultivate the soil, Castle Acre is overstocked with inhabitants that do not properly belong to it, and who are, generally speaking, the worst characters of the parishes from whence they come. The competition caused by the new comers raises the house-rent throughout the parish; and as they are at the mercy of those who have land at Castle Acre, they are forced to pay exorbitant rents for very wretched dwellings. Forty-nine labourers' families belong to Castle Acre, 103 families belong to other parishes. Suppose a farmer in or near Castle Acre wishes to have a particular piece of work done which will demand a number of hands, he applies to a gang master at Castle Acre, who contracts to do the work and furnish the labour. He accordingly gets together as many hands as he thinks sufficient, and sends them in a gang to their place of work. If the work, as usually happens, is such that it can be done by women and children as well as men, the gang is in that case composed of persons of both sexes and of all ages. The system is essentially bad, productive of immorality, and attended with much hardship. The poor man, under the gang master,
 47 48 49 "Whereas, by reason of some defects in the law, poor people are not restrained from going from one parish to another, and therefore do endeavour to settle themselves in those parishes where there is the best stock, the largest commons or wastes to build cottages, and the most wood for them to burn and destroy; and when they have consumed it, then to another parish, and at last become rogues and vagabonds, to the great discouragement of parishes to provide stocks, where it is liable to be discovered by strangers." l., l. l., l., l. 50 "The agricultural witnesses complained also of the restriction in the choice of labourers imposed on the farmer by the law of settlement; and Mr. Coppock, the clerk of the Stockport Union, bears evidence to the hardships and expenses occasioned by the present state of the law." 
 "1. After a day to be fixed for each union, all paupers of the parishes comprising the union shall be settled in the union, and not in any parish of such union. 51 "2. But such paupers be maintained, and all expenses defrayed from a fund levied from each parish, in the proportion of the expenditure for the relief of the poor incurred by such parish, for the last seven years. "3. Debts already charged on the rates, and interest due in respect of such debts, shall not be affected by the change."
 MR. J. E. DENISON  rose to move an Instruction to the Committee to make provision for the establishment of union settlements; and was proceeding to state his reasons for asking the consent of the House to the proposition, when
 COLONEL RAWDON  wished to know from the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland whether any information had been received by the Government respecting alleged misconduct on the part of the officers and others connected with the Poor Law Union of Carrickmacross—whether inquiry
 41
 MR. BROTHERTON  considered that the suggestion of the hon. Member for Malton would be a great improvement of the Bill of the Government. Whether the measure were or were not a boon to the labourer, it was more just to the ratepayer. He agreed with the right hon. Baronet that the Bill of the Government would have the effect of throwing a very considerable burden upon the manufacturing districts, of which, however, they did not complain.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, that his plan was, that rich parishes should contribute to the relief of the poor, by whose labour they had been benefited. As to the term "industrial residence," he could not understand it, though he could understand what was meant by residence.
 MR. HENLEY  objected to proceeding with the Committee of the Bill at twelve o'clock at night. It would look like a fraud to the people of England to proceed at that hour, and without further consideration, with clauses affecting the rating, which was the whole gist of the Bill. The proposition to alter the Bill ought to be for some time before the country, in order that the people could express their opinion of it when a Bill was to be proposed totally different from that which the Government had brought forward at the commencement of the Session; to proceed at once with a measure of which the country had no intimation, would be looked upon by the country as a fraud.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the Government were taking an extraordinary course. This Bill had been first introduced as a compensation for another measure; and after bringing it in, the right hon. Baronet said, he was ready to make an important alteration in it. At present, it was in the power of parishes to have union settlements if they pleased; and there had not been a single instance of that plan having been adopted. The matter now proposed to be changed seemed very light; but considerations of that description ought not to determine the House in the vote which they should come to on the present occasion. They should ask themselves this—what would be the real benefit to the country? They should, he thought, not agree to anything of the sort, if they were not able distinctly to perceive that there would be a decided advantage to the poor—a clear and certain advantage to the poor. No doubt, they had a right also to look at its operation upon the ratepayer. With reference to the Bill now before the House, he understood it to be said that the measure was intended to affect decayed, inferior, and idle persons. Now, he begged to observe that poor men being decayed and inferior, were not necessarily idle; no man was necessarily idle because he did not happen to be so strong as his neighbours. But now the rule was, that those who were to employ labourers were entitled to buy in the cheapest and sell in the dearest markets. It was a novelty to apply this principle to the poor of England; the principle, however, had long been acted upon in Scotland; and that, perhaps, was one of the reasons why Scottish agriculture snrpassed that of England. The Scottish farmer did not, as the English farmer did, act upon the rule of "live, and let live." When he did not find that men in his employment were worth the rate of wages that he paid them, he turned them adrift. That never had been the practice in England; men once established in a parish continued there to the end of their days. Now, it became a very serious question for the House to consider whether the proposition before them was one which in the long run would produce the greatest benefit to the greatest number of human beings. In making these observations, he by no means addressed himself to the political economists, for they never touched the inferior labourers. Men to whom it had not pleased God to give sufficient strength to entitle them to be called first-rate labourers were never employed by those who called themselves
 67
 MR. HENLEY  said, this case afforded another proof of the inconvenience of allowing the second readings of Bills to pass  sub silentio;
 MR. BORTHWICK  rose for the purpose of moving that the debate should then be adjourned, as many Members had left the House, under the impression that the Amendments upon the Paper in reference to that Bill should be considered on going into Committee; and as he was satisfied that they would desire to express their opinions upon those amendments, he
 96
 MR. SPOONER  had no wish to detain the House except to put himself right with the hon. Member for Finsbury. He assured that hon. Member that he was perfectly mistaken if he supposed that he entertained the slightest objection to the principle of the Bill proposed by the right hon. Baronet, namely, that an industrial residence of five years should give the people so residing an exemption from removability. This was a principle which he regarded
 89 90
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  said, that if he could agree that the proposal was of benefit to the labourer, and especially to the agricultural labourer, he would give it his
 53
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  thought it would be perfectly consistent to entertain the Bill, as originally proposed by the Government, if they adhered to that Bill; but now that he saw the right hon. Baronet had consented to support the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Malton, he thought the question came before them under a totally different aspect. What was the object of this Bill originally? He had, on a former evening, taken the liberty of addressing the House on the subject, and pointing out what he conceived it to be, and that it contained a principle most valuable, not merely to the landed interest of this country, but to the great operative population in the manufacturing towns of the country. He said if there was anything that tended to make that population favourable to the measures then introduced by Her Majesty's Ministers, it was the provision contained in this Bill when properly explained to them; for the House must be well aware, the country must be well aware, and Her Majesty's Ministers must be well aware, that what they called free trade in the abstract had not been extremely popular with the great operative classes of this country. They had looked upon this contest between the agricultural and manufacturing interest with perfect apathy and indifference; they looked upon it as something of a pull-devil pull-baker sort of contest; and he almost thought the baker was the favourite of the two. Now, why had they been so indifferent to that which he believed would tend to their ultimate benefit? Why, for this simple reason, that they had not believed, they do not believe, and it was very difficult to make them believe at the present moment, that the great capitalists of the country were really favourable and took a deep interest in their welfare—and how were they to judge of this? When there was any reverse of fortune in those manufacturing districts, had the unfortunate persons who were making the fortunes of the great
 73 74 75 "I come, now, Sir, to a law grievously complained of, and justly grievously complained of, by the agricultural interest. I mean the present law of settlement. Under the present law of settlement the population of a rural district, in times of manufacturing prosperity, is invited to emigrate to some great manufacturing town. The prime of a man's life is consumed in those manufacturing districts—all the advantages to be derived from his strength, his good conduct, and his industry, are derived by the master manufacturers in the towns. A revolution in manufacturing affairs takes place, a reaction ensues, and the trading and manufacturing interest do not prosper—then what takes place? The man, together with his family, who were removed from the agricultural districts in a season of manufacturing prosperity, are sent back to the agricultural districts; and that man, the best of whose life and energy has been spent in the manufacturing districts, that man who, perhaps, had not been provident in his prosperity, must return to the rural district unfitted for rural occupations; that man, greatly to his annoyance and suffering, is transferred to a former home, which probably he has forgotten—to a place with which he has lost all connexions, and where he has not the means of getting employment—and not only is a great injustice inflicted upon the rural district, but a shock is given to the feelings of every just and humane man. We propose, therefore, not only to relieve the land from a burden, but we propose to do an act of justice to the labouring man by altering the law of settlement. We propose, Sir, that an industrial residence of five years shall not only give a claim to relief; but that after such a residence the power of removing him shall be taken away, and that his legal claim for support shall not be on the place of his original settlement, but on the place to which for five years his labour and industry were given. Now, Sir, I dare say many will remember what took place in November, 1842. In 1842 there was great distress in the manufacturing districts; the practice then followed was, that the persons employed in manufactures who had a settlement in the agricultural districts should be returned to those districts for the purpose of obtaining relief. Now, Sir, I conceive that the alteration we propose will be a moral improvement of the law, just in itself, and a great relief to the rural districts. It will be a great advantage to the agricultural interest, while at the same time it will be the remedy of a gross injustice under which the labouring man now exists." * * 76 "A Return specifying the number of families and persons removed by any local order or other authority to their place of settlement, from each manufacturing town in Yorkshire, Lancashire, and Cheshire, during the years 1841, 1842, and 1843; the date of such removal, the name of the parish to which removed, and the occupation or trade, and length of residence in the town from which such families and persons were so removed." 77 78 79 "To leave out the word 'provision,' to the end of the Question, in order to add the words 'for the repeal of all laws regulating the settlement of the poor, and also to make provision that henceforth all poor persons entitled to relief should have their necessities relieved within the Union where such necessities occur; also, to make provision, that the State, by an equitable assessment, should provide the means for affording such relief,' instead thereof."
 MR. DUNCOMBE  asked whether, if the object of this Bill was to prevent the removal, under certain conditions, of persons who had a settlement elsewhere, such a provision did not, in fact, raise the question of the law of settlement?
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  rose to order. He had always understood that it was a rule of the House, that it was not competent for any Member to move an instruction to a Committee when the object in view could be gained in Committee, which he thought was the case in this instance. The question of the hon. Member could be raised in Committee, both as to the title and provisions
 42
 MR. DUNCOMBE  wished to say a few words as to the Amendment he thought it his duty to propose. He never could have believed that hon. Gentlemen would have adopted the Motion of his hon. Friend; but having acted as they had done on this occasion, it was his opinion that they should not allow such a miserable tinkering of the question; because the course the Government had adopted was nothing less. If they were to know that those alterations would be made, let the House make them in accordance with the feelings and wishes of the people. It appeared that his observations—he knew not why—had excited the wrath of the hon. Member for Durham. The hon. Member said that if the repeal of the Corn Laws had depended on him and his party, it never would have been carried. It would not now have been passed. The hon. Gentleman was pleased to say that he (Mr. Duncombe) had gone down to the manufacturing districts for the purpose of fomenting dissensions between the employer and the employed, and of persuading the working classes, that the manufacturers did not seek for the repeal of the Corn Laws for the benefit of those classes. Well, he maintained that still. He said they did not seek the repeal of that law for the working classes alone. As to the charge, that if the repeal of this law depended on him, it would not now have taken place, he was sure he could see no reason why the hon. Gentleman should say so. For twenty years he had had a seat in that House, and for those twenty years he had ever voted for a repeal of the Corn Law. The hon. Gentleman had not condescended to say who were his (Mr. Duncombe's) associates, and he was sure he did not then know to whom the hon. Gentleman alluded. He had received several invitations to attend the League meetings, but he refused to go. He always had set his face against what were called "ticket meetings." He
 97
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that the Bill had now become the Bill of his hon. Friend; and he would ask if the hon. Gentleman was prepared to bring forward his clauses at that moment? It was proposed that the Government should introduce the alterations in the Bill; but were there not others who might wish to move instructions with a view to amendments in the Bill. The Irish Coercion Bill had been fixed for Monday; but in his opinion they would be better employed on Monday, in discussing a Bill the object of which was connected with the relief of the poor in England, than in proposing a Coercion Bill for Ireland; and he would move that this Bill should have precedence on Monday.
 MR. GRANGER  was of opinion that the proposition of the hon. Member for Malton would do a great injustice to more than half the parishes in the country. He was surprised to hear the right hon. Baronet, on this occasion, express his willingness to accede to the proposition, which would tend to throw upon uninhabited rural parishes the burden of taxation for the support of those who had spent their lives in the employment and for the benefit of manufacturers in towns. Those who obtained the benefit of their work should pay for their support. It seemed to him that they were undoing with one hand that which they were doing with the other. He must say that he was not prepared for such an extensive change in the parochial system as that proposed by his hon. Friend below him. If there were to be a change at all, he would certainly prefer that which was
 70
 SIR G. CLERK  moved for leave to bring in two Bills, which were founded on the report of a Select Committee to which the subject of regulations relating to shipping had been referred. The first Bill was to require that all merchant ships should carry a certain number of boats according to their tonnage; and, with regard to steam-vessels, the regulations which the Bill would embody had been submitted to the directors of the General Steam Navigation Company, and they had stated they had no objection whatever to them. Those regulations would require that the holds of steam-vessels should be divided into three compartments, separated by water-tight bulkheads. He also proposed to introduce regulations, to be enforced under a penalty, respecting the manner in which steam-vessels should pass each other, in order to prevent as far as possible the danger of collision; and he meant to give power to the Admiralty to enforce regulations, with a view to steam-vessels using certain lights during the night, and also providing that a report be annually made to the Board of Trade, by a competent engineer, as to the condition and sufficiency of the machinery of those vessels, and a similar report respecting the vessel itself by a competent shipwright, and stating if any accident had happened to either. The other Bill referred to the preservation of wrecked property and to the amendment and consolidation of the laws upon that subject. To remove all doubts as to the rights of various parties to wrecked property, he proposed to vest the trusteeship of such property in the receivers of the droits of the Admiralty, so as to enable parties preferring any claims to it to establish those claims; and that for one year it should be open to the owners of wrecked property to advance their claims to it; if after that period had elapsed no claims were put forward by the owners, then the rights of the lord of the manor where the wreck had been cast ashore should be considered. The right hon. Gentleman concluded by moving for leave to bring in the Bill.
 SIR J. GRAHAM : It may perhaps be for the convenience of the House, if I state on the present occasion what is the view which I entertain on this subject. Upon the abstract merits of the question we are now discussing, it is almost superfluous to trouble the House at any length; for this, in fact, is the same proposition which I had the honour of submitting to Parliament in the course of last Session. It is the introduction of union settlement, taken in conjunction with the irremovability of the poor who have resided in one place for five years, and have not during those five years been chargeable. Nothing is more true than what was stated, that when this measure was announced by my right hon. Friend at the head of the Government, in the early part of the Session, it was announced as a measure limited to removal, and not interfering at all with the law of settlement. And the reason for that announcement was, that in the year 1844 I submitted to the House a proposition for an extensive alteration in the law of settlement, which I then believed, and still believe, would have simplified and improved the law, would have diminished litigation, and conferred a great benefit upon the labouring classes; but the House then refused to approve of that proposition. In the course of last Session again Government proposed, in conjunction with that which is the principal feature of this Bill, the substance of the proposition now made by the hon. Member for Malton, viz., that for parish settlement, union settlement should be substituted. The reception which that proposition met with at the time, has been correctly described; the attachment to the ancient parish system was very strong in many quarters of this House; and though the administration of relief has, by the Poor Law Amendment Act, ceased to be a parish and is now a union system, still it was considered advisable to restrict the liability of the charge within the ancient parochial limits. Under these circumstances, Government did not think it expedient in the present Session to accompany the proposition
 56 57 58 "The labourer's sphere of action is materially extended, and he will soon discover that, if he cannot find employment in one parish, he must seek it in another; and that as the best labourers are most regularly employed at the best wages, it will therefore be greatly to his interest to endavour to become one of that class. The objection to settlers in a parish will be removed; and we may expect to see landlords building a better description of cottages, in order that their tenants may have the advantage of good labourers in their immediate neighbourhood. A member of our Committee stated that the best and most trustworthy labourers on his farm, which is a large one, do not belong to the parish. Why were these men so distinguished? Because they knew if they were not more skilful and more trustworthy than the other labourers, they would not retain their situations. I receive the rent of three cottages in my parish. One is occupied by an old widow, belonging to a neighbouring parish, the other two by able-bodied men belonging to us. The widow always has her rent ready on Michaelmasday.
 59 "But, there is another and great evil under the present system: there is no inducement held out to the young labourer to excel as a workman, to be industrious and of good moral habits. If he travel beyond the boundaries of his parish, he can gain no employment, and, if he remain in it, he meets with little or no encouragement, inasmuch as he sees the most worthless men in the parish, because they have wives and families, obtain employment, when he can obtain none; and careless, idle, reckless habits, improvident marriages, and all the ills of pauperism, are the sad consequences. The proposed Bill will extend the field of labour for the poor man, and, instead of being questioned as to his parish, he will be questioned as to his quality as a workman, and his character as a man; and thus excellence and industry will meet with their due reward. You will see by what I have said that I anticipate good results from the proposed change." "The active and able-bodied could alone avail themselves of an extension of the field of labour beyond their parishes, while the inferior and decayed labourer would be injured in the same or a greater proportion. This last class of labourers, who most stand in need of protection, would materially suffer by throwing open the field of labour. For the independent subsistence of the decayed, and the stupid and the clumsy labourer, I apprehend, a monopoly, such as we now have in parishes, is necessary." 60 "I know a gentleman in an agricultural union who has taken a large farm, and cultivated it with the greatest skill, introduced the latest improvements, and made it a model for all the neighbouring agriculturists. He pays higher wages than any one else, employs on his land three times the proportion of labourers that other farmers do, and hence might be supposed to be popular in a pauperized parish. Not at all. His good farming requires good workmen; and hence he takes them from any part of the union, quite regardless of the parish to which they belong. His own parishioners grumble, and say he does not do half the good that farmer B does, who employs fewer labourers, but takes them all from the parish, and thus helps to keep down the rates. This gentleman acts as every one would act were a union settlement established,  i.e., 61 62 63
 SIR J. GRAHAM  observed, that he had no intention of deserting the measure for which he stood responsible. He had been exposed to the taunts of both sides of the House; but these would not induce him to relax in any course he might consider it his duty to follow. The hon. Member for Oxfordshire had, for one, used expressions towards him which he thought scarcely warranted by the usages of debate or of that House. Of that, however, he wished to say nothing more. He had a suggestion to make with reference to the measure now before the House, which he would offer to the hon. Member for Malton, and if accepted, he thought ultimately it would prove for the benefit of all parties. The suggestion was this, that the House would allow the further discussion of the Bill to stand over until Monday. In the interval he should have an opportunity of conferring
 102 pro formâ
 SIR J. GRAHAM  was anxious, in the first place, to express his surprise at the misconception into which the right hon. Gentleman (the Member for Northampton) had fallen. The hon. Gentleman had said, that he believed he (Sir James Graham) had stated, that if the proposition of the hon. Member for Malton were rejected, he should consider it expedient to proceed with the measure. He believed that he stated exactly the reverse. He had said that if the House should reject that proposition, still the measure was so advantageous on the whole that he should give it his earnest support. He quite agreed with the hon. Member for Birmingham, that the principle of the Bill was irremovability after a certain time. He agreed also with what had been stated on the other side of the House, as well as upon his own side, that the definition of residence was difficult, if not impossible. As the law now stood, residence was an indispensable ingredient in several descriptions of settlement; such as a settlement gained by hiring and service, or a settlement by estate. The noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) knew very well that the right of voting in many boroughs was, under the old law, vested in inhabitants resident therein; and yet that right, important as it was, had never been yet strictly defined by law. It might be possible, however, when they came to discuss the important clauses relating to this branch of the subject, to introduce words which would make good such a definition. With respect to the question mooted by the hon. Member for Worcester, he quite agreed with the sentiments expressed by the hon. Member for Birmingham. It would certainly simplify the measure greatly to make irremovability confer a settlement; but such an alteration would make a very important change in the character of the measure. If the House went a step further than it was proposed by the present Bill to go, and created a settlement in the place of irremovability, from that settlement would flow derivative rights. This change, therefore, would open the door to a question of immense magnitude. It would, as he had said before, simplify the whole question very much, but a very great and important change would be introduced. There was one more point on which he was anxious to say a few words. The hon. Member for Dorsetshire, and some of the Gentlemen who were sitting near him, appeared to
 91 92
 SIR J. GRAHAM  moved the Order of the Day for Committee on the Poor Removal Bill.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that the hon. Member had been obliging enough in the course of that morning to give him notice of the question he was to put on this subject. He had had no opportunity of consulting the Postmaster General since the receipt of the hon. Member's note, but he conceived it was a question of general law which he might answer without consulting the Postmaster General. He believed that the law as it now stood was, that the Postmaster General had power to regulate the hours of delivery on Sunday at the different Post Offices. In the metropolis, as the House was aware, the boxes were open for the receipt of letters, but there was no delivery. In country towns, however, he believed that a delivery did take place at certain hours, though there was no attendance at the office during the time of divine service. He (Sir J. Graham) was not aware there was any intention to change either the law or the practice.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  was understood to say, that although the Bill provided that a person, after a five years' residence, should not be removable, yet that provision did not touch the settlement of such a party in the least degree. A party so non-removable still retained his settlement, which was not affected.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, nothing could be more accurate than the statement of his hon. Friend, that the second reading had been allowed to pass without discussion, on the distinct understanding that it would be open to any hon. Member to discuss the principle at the next stage of the Bill. With respect to the point raised by the hon. Member for Finsbury, he begged to remind the House, that as the Bill now stood, its principle was strictly limited to the removal of poor settled in England. The hon. Member for Malton, however, was anxious to introduce into the Bill another most important principle, one immediately connected with the removal of the poor—namely, an alteration to a limited extent of the law of settlement. After what had fallen from the Speaker, it was not for him to offer any observation on the right of the hon. Member to move that instruction; but he thought it would be better that the hon. Member should proceed now, because, if he succeeded in obtaining the assent of the House to his proposed instruction, it would be in vain to discuss the measure as it now stood—the whole Bill must be remodelled, and he should have to ask the House to go into Committee  pro formâ,
 MR. PAKINGTON  felt considerable difficulty as to the course which, in reference to the Amendment of the hon. Member for Malton, he ought to pursue. He could not doubt that, by consenting to the Amendment, there would be involved a reconstruction of the Bill, and that the delay might be such that it might not pass this Session. He agreed, however, with the hon. Member for Malton, that union settlement would be an improvement on the present law of settlement, and he would therefore support the proposition. One of the strongest objections to the proposal of Her Majesty's Government was, that the Bill offered, numberless temptations to local jobbing, and that it exposed the poor to hardship; and he thought that by adopting the suggestion of union settlement they would remove those objections. It had been urged against the measure recently introduced by the Government with regard to a five years' settlement, that it was unjust to the manufacturing districts; but he thought that those who derived a benefit from the labour were called on to assist the labourer when in distress. At the same time, he was of opinion that inconvenience might sometimes arise from such a system, and that it would be an advantage if, instead of being confined to one populous town, there were a distribution over a union. It had been said there would be no longer the inducements which had before existed for farmers to employ the labourers in adverse seasons; but it was forgotten that, though there would be no longer parish interests,
 55
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, the House could not be surprised at the parental manner in which his right hon. Friend had treated the proposition of the hon. Member for Malton; which was, in fact, the offspring of the right hon. Baronet himself, though introduced into society by the hon. Member for Malton. He could not refrain, however, from asking why, if the right hon. Gentleman had so strong a sense of the necessity of this proposal, his right hon. Friend had not introduced it as part of his own measure. His hon. Friend the Member for Oxfordshire had been misunderstood; his hon. Friend only meant that the mention of former statutes gave the Committee a  locus standi 64 s., s. s.
 SIR R. INGLIS  said, he would not take the trouble of inquiring to whom the largest share of blame was to be imputed for the state in which the Bill then was—he would not stay to inquire whether it were owing to the conduct of Her Majesty's Government in deserting the Bill, or to the noble Lord the Member for London in giving his powerful support to a principle in which he expressed his want of sympathy; or whether it might rest on those who—consistent, at all events—had refused to support the propositions of the hon. Member for Malton. It was proposed to go into Committee  pro formâ, 101
 SIR R. INGLIS  would ask the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government whether he had obtained any report as to the injury which it was feared might be caused to the Royal Observatory at Greenwich, by the construction of a railway, the Bill for which was before the House? He was desirous to know if the right hon. Baronet would object to lay any such report on the Table to-night. If the report had not as yet been received, he hoped the hon. Member who had charge of the Railway Bill would postpone the second reading until the report was in the hands of Members.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that at an earlier period of the evening he was informed that one or two reports had been received; but he had just been informed that all the reports had been received, and were in possession of the Admiralty, and he had no doubt that he would be able to lay them on the Table on Monday. He trusted that the hon. Member who had charge of the Railway Bill would postpone the second reading until the Members of the House had an opportunity of reading those reports.
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  was not present at the commencement of the debate, but wished to record his opinion in favour of the instruction moved by his hon. Friend the Member for Malton. The best way to guard against repeating what had been stated before was to make his present observation as brief as possible, and to confine what he had to say to matters within his own local experience. He could hardly say that that was a proper rule to apply to a matter of national concernment, yet from the local wants of a district they might see what was best for the community at large. In the neighbourhood in which he lived there were very large tracts of country (especially in what were called the Wolds of Yorkshire) in which large portions of land had been recently enclosed. There were whole townships in the hands of a large proprietor, or two or three large proprietors, and in a great number of those townships there was no house or cottage in the whole township, and the labourers lived in towns and villages situate in the adjacent townships. If they enacted, as he believed the Government and the House were prepared to enact, that the person who resided for five years in any given parish or township, should not be removable, without making any further provision, he thought, without going into the question between the rural districts and the towns, that in the rural districts themselves it would bear very hard indeed upon several parishes and townships, while it would confer almost an immunity upon others, especially on those in which the property and influence of the landed proprietors would most preponderate. They would legislate almost exclusively in favour of what were called the close parishes or townships, and almost overwhelm the country towns and villages; and the man who could prevent any cottages being built on his land, or who would pull down those that were built, on the principle that he could do what he liked with his own, would be let off scot free. He thought the way to get rid of that objection was, to adopt union settlements (instead of township settlements), as proposed by his hon. Friend the Member for Malton. He thought that the objection which he had heard against union settlements partook of a superficial or sentimental character, whilst the evils they would otherwise leave untouched, if not abrogated, were very plain and palpable. He did not look upon this
 71
 LORD J. RUSSELL  could not quite agree with the hon. Member near him, that the right hon. Gentleman opposite had brought this question before the House in the most convenient shape. Though it was perfectly well known that his hon. Friend the Member for Malton meant to have introduced this question, he thought it would have been better if the House had had some previous notice that the right hon. Gentleman meant to support the Motion of his hon. Friend; or, what would have been still better, to take this instruction into his own hands. His hon. Friend who had made the Motion rightly interpreted his (Lord J. Russell's) vote on that question. He considered it fair to the right hon. Gentleman and his Government that the House of Commons should enable the right hon. Gentleman to shape his Bill in the mode he thought best for the public advantage. It might have been better, perhaps, if the Bill had been withdrawn, and the right hon. Gentleman had brought in a new Bill for the purpose of giving union settlements; but he could not quite see the advantage of going into this question on the present occasion. It was far better to allow the right hon. Gentleman an opportunity of fully considering the Bill, and shaping the clauses in the manner he thought it best that they should be brought under the consideration of the House. The hon. Member for Dorsetshire had stated what he (Lord J. Russell) thought a good reason for taking that course, when he said that his reason against union settlements was, that the unions were inconveniently large. Until they saw the Bill, they were not aware whether the right hon. Gentleman meant to propose any modification in the size of the unions, whether they were to be smaller or larger. They had not the details before them, and until they had, they were not in a condition to judge of the question. For himself, he reserved his opinion until the details were before the House. He regarded the whole question as open for their consideration when the Bill should have gone into Committee  pro formâ,
 MR. O'CONNELL  observed, that at an early stage of this Bill the right hon. Baronet was asked whether it was proposed to include Irish paupers under the operation of the Bill, and stated that such was the intention. In Ireland there was no law of settlement, and provision would require to be made in express terms for enabling natives
 122
 MR. DUNCOMBE'S  object was to save the House trouble. The two questions were separate, and ought to remain separate; and there was no use at all in going into Committee  pro formâ,
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  had not the honour of knowing Sir C. Taylor, and only knew that a charge of a very serious nature had been made against the character of that gentleman, on the authority of an individual who was known to be a convicted felon. That charge, unworthy of attention when it was known from whom it emanated, was now abandoned, and a second charge was brought forward on the authority of certain affidavits, sworn by certain persons, under what circumstances they were not exactly informed. If these were proved true, any one might obtain an ample redress by applying for and obtaining a criminal information in the Court of Queen's Bench against the magistrate whose conduct was thus impugned. If they were false, Sir C. Taylor had no remedy but in the sense of justice in that House; and he (the Solicitor General) regretted to say that it appeared to him that the only way justice could be done was, that some censure should be pronounced upon one who, like the hon. Member for Athlone,
 127
 MR. BERNAL  seconded the Amendment. He observed, that though he had not said much as to this question, he had felt much, and he was convinced of the impolicy and inutility of this measure. He felt that in pressing this measure they were not advocating one which would prove advantageous in any respect to the interest of Ireland, nor instrumental in any degree towards the removal of the evils which prevailed in that country, and which they all so deeply deplored. It might, perhaps, be charged against him (Mr. Bernal) and those with whom he usually acted, that on former occasions, when the preservation of the public peace in Ireland, and the suppression of crime and outrage in that ill-governed country, were objects greatly desired, they supported severe measures resembling in some respects the present. He admitted the charge. It was true that in past years he had supported measures brought forward in the hope of restoring tranquillity and good order in Ireland; but he was sorry to say that the good results accruing from the operation of these measures were but temporary and evanescent, and he was not convinced by practical experience of the salutary effect of introducing such enactments. In the year 1846 they were called upon to sanction a measure inflicting the penalty of transportation on persons for being absent from their homes after sunset; but he asked hon. Gentlemen opposite whether they were prepared to say this harsh and severe measure was the chief the only remedy they purposed applying for the welfare of the unfortunate millions who were starving in Ireland? [Colonel WOOD: No, no!] The hon. and gallant Member cried "No, no!" but would he favour the House so far as to explain what were the remedial measures he was prepared to advocate? What other measures than this Bill of pains and penalties was he prepared to support? Hon. Gentlemen opposite mistook the malady of Ireland. They dealt with it with a strong and surgical hand, frequently applying the lancet and the probe; but they neglected the true remedy—palliatives. For years nothing could be more deplorable than the
 138
 MR. BERNAL  resumed by observing that the attendance on that occasion was a proof of the apathy with which questions relating to Ireland were regarded; and if any additional proof were needed of the non-necessity of this measure, it would be found in the fact that, at eight o'clock in the evening, there were barely forty Members of the House present, when this Bill was expected to be read a second time. He feared the measure had been discussed  ad nauseam; 139 140 141 142
 The EARL of LINCOLN  said, that he could assure the House, and the hon. Gentleman who had just made an attack upon him which he could not think was quite justified by the circumstances that appeared to have led to it, that however ignorant he (the Earl of Lincoln) might be upon Irish affairs, he had come down to the House with the fullest intention of rising immediately after the seconder of the Amendment had concluded his speech, to explain his views and those of the Government with regard to the measure. But when he found that two attempts had been made to count out the House within ten minutes—when he looked at the benches opposite, where sat the hon. Member who had charged him with offering insult to the Irish people, and saw but three or four of the representatives of Ireland, occupying their seats there—when he saw that such was the interest which the hon. representatives of Ireland themselves bestowed upon this question, he did certainly think that he should be acting a more becoming part, nay, that he should be showing more respect to the Irish Members themselves, and to a question involving the interests of the Irish people, if he, however ignorant an individual he might be, yet happening to occupy the responsible position of Irish Secretary, did endeavour to postpone, until a later period of the evening, when probably the Irish Members would have been in attendance, those observations which he should certainly not shrink from making in the presence of any of them; and he was most anxious, therefore, that those hon. Members should have been present when he had had the honour of addressing the House. Had he willingly risen at this period of the debate, nothing was more probable than that he should have been taunted, at a subsequent stage, with having risen at a time when nobody could have expected it, and with shrinking from allowing the Irish Members the opportunity of hearing and answering him, by purposely taking that occasion of explaining his views. He hoped he had exonerated himself—if not in the opinion of the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. B. Osborne), at least in that of other hon. Members
 144 145 146 147 148 149 150 151 152 "At half-past 9 p.m. a party of about sixteen persons, armed with sticks, and faces blackened, came to —'s residence, inquired for him, and on being informed by his wife that he was absent, they very severely beat his two sons (young men), desiring them to tell their father not to tyrannize over his tenants."
 The EARL of LINCOLN  submitted that, as he had already said, it participated somewhat of an agrarian character, but that it could not strictly be so designated. If the hon Gentleman (Mr. Scrope) would refer to the returns, he would be able to substantiate completely for himself that which he asked from him (the Earl of Lincoln) as a matter of opinion; because those returns had been so classified into cases of an agrarian character, that if the hon. Gentleman differed from him in opinion, he would be able to see how far he (the Earl of Lincoln) had been led into error; but the crimes had been classified in a way which he believed to be just.
 "On going away they searched the out-offices, and finding —'s horse, they disbelieved the story of his absence, and returning to the dwelling, they narrowly searched it until they found —, whom they severely beat, cut, and bruised, threatening worse treatment if he did not use his tenants with more kindness; and compelling—'s wife to hold the candle for them while this was going forward. "—, it appears, had latterly endeavoured to get some money from two or three cottiers who had for years occupied cabins on his land, but who had always refused to pay rent. "— publicly denies all knowledge of any of the assailants, but admits to the police—[he begged to call the attention of the House especially to this part of the case]—that he knows some of them, and is willing to lodge informations privately, after he shall have sold his stock, &c., preparatory to leaving the country, as he considers it unsafe to remain, and that he could not effect the sale were he to come forward publicly." 153 "This evening a party of six persons, two of whom were armed, entered the house of M'Inertney, and beat him and his son, because of his permitting another son to remain in the service of a man named Crotty, who is bailiff to Mr. Tomkins." "About 1 o'clock, p.m. two persons armed with sticks, entered the stable of Mr. Pierce Simpson, justice of the peace, and grievously assaulted his servant James Dignam. The object of the outrage was to compel Dignam to leave his situation, that others might procure employment. One of the offenders had been previously in Mr. Simpson's service." "About 7 o'clock this morning, four armed men unknown went to where several persons were employed, under A. Sodan, making a new road, and fired two shots at some of the workmen, one of which passed through P. Coolreavy's cap." "About 1 o'clock p.m. nine persons, armed, came to where Mr. Nesbitt had men employed at work, drove them away, and fired several shots after them." "Two strangers, one armed with a blunderbuss, the other with a bludgeon, went to the house of Denis Gleeson, who was herd and caretaker to Mr. W. Wells, of Ballycormack, King's County, burst open the door, put Gleeson on his knees, and swore him on a book to quit the place within a week, giving him at the same time two blows on the head with the bludgeon, from the effects of which he was for some time dangerously ill. Gleeson had replaced another who had been dismissed about seven years ago."
 The EARL of LINCOLN : It was not stated; but he assured the right hon. Gentleman that he would suppress nothing that was material. When he first came to the Irish Office he found that in many instances the hour was not specified in the constabulary returns; but directions had been given for that to be done in future. There was another case also in Tipperary. It was on the 30th May, but the hour was not stated:—
 "An armed party of four men entered Hensey's house, compelled his wife and a small boy to hold down their heads while they searched for Hensey's son. One of the party discharged the contents of a pistol at Mrs. Hensey, which missed her; they then threatened her with death if she did not cause her husband to leave the employment of Mrs. Bennett (to whom he was steward). On their departure they fired a shot outside the house,
 154 "An armed party of three men ordered her to quit the employment of Mr. S. Low, to whom she is dairy-woman. Mr. Low's herd who was crossing the yard at the time, was fired at by one of the party, and slightly wounded. The alleged cause is that the dairy-maid is penurious in disposing of the milk to the labourers." "About 7 o'clock at night, Heiher (who is steward in a steam-boat), when on his way home, was met by five men, and violently assaulted and his skull fractured. The cause assigned for the outrage was Heiher's ceasing to deal with a woman who supplied milk for his boat, and who stated that she would have revenge. One of the offenders arrested." "About 7 o'clock on this evening, as Geelan (gardener to Mr. Jones) was returning from market with a horse and cart, he was was met by three men, armed with sticks, who knocked him down, gave him two severe cuts on the head, and broke one of his fingers. On going off they told him not to go carting again." "This man was attacked at 10 p.m. by two armed men, who first flung stones into the windows, and broke nine panes of glass, after which they fired a shot into the bed-room of Kennedy's son. Kennedy is a blacksmith by trade, and was recently employed to work for Widow Costelloe, who heretofore employed a smith named M'Harnett: the widow and M'Harnett having disagreed, she employed Kennedy, and hence the assigned reason of this outrage, got up, as is generally believed, by M'Harnett." 155 "Tipperary, Jan. 7, 1846.—The property of William Carty injured to prevent him sinking his coal pit." "March 21.—Pat Kicrnan.—Aggravated assault, to compel him to purchase coal at a pit different from that he frequented." "Roscommon, July 2.—This evening Michael Donolly was waylaid and seriously assaulted by three persons unknown, because of his having served a notice on a person from whom he had purchased a cow, which did not turn out according to engagement." "Tipperary, Jan. 26.—About 8 p.m., as John Carty was returning home from the house of his employer, Mr. Thomas Gleeson, he was waylaid, fired at, and wounded, by a party of persons unknown, because of his having (as is supposed) proved his signature to certain I O U vouchers upon which decrees were obtained at last Nenagh sessions, notwithstanding the carrying away of the original processes from the process server." "Roscommon, April 7.—Thomas Cox sworn to give back money he had been paid ten years before." "Tipperary, January 31.—On this evening an armed party of persons went to the dwellings of M. Rourke, a comfortable farmer; and, having broken a window and shot his dog, cautioned him to fulfil his promise of marrying a certain female. On being pursued by Rourke, one of the said party discharged a gun loaded with powder at him, which lacerated his face." "February 20.—Richard Dwyer's house burnt, to prevent a marriage." "Roscommon, January 13.—John Tighe sworn (twice in one month) to marry Mary Rogers." "Tipperary, September 22. — About eight o'clock p.m. some person unknown fired a shot into his house, but fortunately without effect, the ball having passed over the heads of — and his daughter, and lodged in the wall. — was suspected of giving information against two persons
 156 "Leitrim, March 23.—On this evening five or six men, two of whom were armed, entered Gilluly's house, and assaulted him and his son, but not dangerously. Gilluly having prosecuted a man four years previous for waylaying his son, is the assigned cause of the outrage. The party then proceeded to Kilbrian's house, and assaulted him for having a loy iron made by a smith who is obnoxious." "Tipperary, July 22.—Early this morning an armed party of eight persons, some of whom are known, went to Widow Shanahan's dwelling, and, having fired shots into the house through a window, warned her to quit the place by November. Cause assigned—to intimidate Widow Shanahan and her sons from prosecuting persons in gaol charged with the murder of her husband in October, 1844." "Roscommon, Boyle, April 8.—I have to report that on the 6th instant, at about eleven o'clock p.m., three men, one of whom was armed with a pistol, assaulted the dwelling of a poor
 157 "I have to report, that on last night, about the hour of 8 or 9 o'clock, a party of men, about four or five in number, attacked the house of E. Walsh, and in a most inhuman manner cut off the unfortunate man's ears, and on going away fired a shot. Having voted for Mr. Moore at last election, they assigned as the cause for such brutal treatment. It appeared there was no report made to the constable at Ballyhane. Mr. Barron and I have consulted, and agree in opinion in suggesting a large reward for such an outrage in a hitherto peaceable county." "Castlebar, April 9. "With reference to my report of yesterday, the 8th instant, relative to the outrage on Edward Walsh, I have further to report, that on visiting the scene, I found that a similar outrage had been committed on a man named Mark Burke, residing on the adjoining townland, Bollyruck, same parish and barony; also a 10 l. 158 "Have you had an opportunity of forming a judgment whether the persons so convicted were instigated by others, or were they revenging any supposed wrongs of their own? They have generally committed these offences in consequence of the disputes of other persons, being connexions of their own, either by relationship or being their employers. I have also known instances where violent assaults have been committed by persons who absolutely did not know the persons they were employed to assault, and the person assaulted did not know them. They had never seen each other, but were pointed out by third parties; and some of the most desperate assaults I ever knew were committed in that way.—In those cases do the outrages generally appear to be the result of system, or are they perpetrated at the instigation of an individual? At the instigation of individual malice in all the cases that come within my knowledge; but it is the habit of the country, where malice of that kind arises, to revenge it in a particrlar manner." 159 160 161 162 163 Hansard 164 "Do you conceive that undue protection is given to the parties engaged in these outrages?" His answer was, "My impression is, that the occupiers of land, farmers and small tenants, will all receive a man that they know to have been guilty of a crime of that description, and that they will harbour him and protect him, and he is, in point of fact, looked upon as a better man than another, because he has put down what they call a tyrant. He is sure of being received wherever he goes, and has the character of what they call a 'good boy.'" 165 166 167 168 169 per contra, 170 171 l., l. 172 173
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY : The right hon. Gentleman had said that his noble Friend had used language in that House that was most unusual; he thought that the Government had taken a course that was also most unusual. The conduct of the Government had been such as had not before been witnessed in that House. They were sent by their constituents to deliver their opinions honestly and fairly in this House; and if the conduct of the Government had been so extraordinary, language might naturally have been uttered in respect to it which, on more mature consideration, might not have been uttered. The right hon. Gentleman said, that the noble Lord had remarked that the blood of all those who were murdered in Ireland, would fall upon the heads of the Government if they delayed this measure for a single day; but Her Majesty's Ministers had delayed it for a period of six weeks. They could not suppose that there was the
 190
 MR. STAFFORD O'BRIEN  said, he would take advantage of the question of adjournment to ask the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. S. Herbert) for an explanation of a phrase in his speech, which, under the circumstances in which the House was now placed, would, he thought, be deemed but a reasonabie demand on his part. The right hon. Gentleman had made allusion to rumours about town that those who retained the principles which they held this time last year, but who now found themselves at variance with Her Majesty's Government,
 191 casus fœderis 192 "I then frankly told you, with respect to the Anti-Murder Bill, that I believed the whole party with whom I served were but of one opinion, that it was a most unconstitutional measure, and only to be justified by some dire exigency. I believe I termed it another Curfew Act, and said that nothing but the most imminent danger could excuse it; but that if the Government were prepared to state that the emergency did exist, and were ready to have their honesty and sincerity tested by pressing the measure with all possible speed through the House, we should be disposed to give them credit for the existence of so dire an emergency, and, in spite of the statement of Lord Clanricarde in the House of Lords, we would support them. But if, on the contrary, it should appear from their conduct that in their hearts they did not believe such dire necessity did exist—if the danger to life was so little imminent that they could afford to postpone the measure on which the security of life was said to depend—a measure not intended to come into operation for three years—then the complexion of the case would be very much altered, and I conceive we should feel ourselves bound to take a different course, presuming, as we must under such circumstances, that no true or lasting ground did in fact exist for the adoption of so unconstitutional a measure." casus fœderis
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that he would answer the hon. Gentleman who sat on his bench (Mr. Stafford O'Brien), and the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. No application or proposition had been made to him on the part of the noble Lord, or of any other hon. Member. He might, perhaps, be permitted to state that the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland seemed not to be aware of the objections which he had stated to the House on the first bringing in of this Bill; that he then stated that he had objections to some of the clauses; that he particularly
 194
 MR. R. YORKE  apprehended that the proposed course had been usually adopted every year, and had been found to work well. If the matter went to a division, he should, therefore, vote with the Government.
 MR. F. MAULE  said, that he should also support the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government. This was a usual Motion at this period of the Session, and if it was necessary during any Session, it was so this Session, when business was in arrear.
 MR. S. HERBERT  said, all he had stated was that the noble Lord was entering upon an alliance with a party which sought objects which, in his opinion, would lead to the dismemberment of the Empire. This, however, was merely a matter of opinion, and on which a difference of opinion undoubtedly prevailed.
 MR. S. HERBERT  said, that after what had passed, it was due to the hon. Gentleman who had first put the question to say that the noble Lord's statement was conclusive on the subject: he was misinformed.
 MR. S. HERBERT  assured the hon. Gentleman that he believed there was no Member of the House against whom any charge of discourtesy could be made with so little justice. With respect to the letter which the hon. Gentleman had read, he did not think he was called upon then to enter upon it. The noble Lord, at the time he wrote, no doubt, took what he thought the best course; but all it amounted to was, that he told the Government, if they went on with the Corn Bill, he would vote against them. So much for that letter. With respect to the observations he made, and of which the hon. Gentleman asked for an explanation, he begged to recall the House to the exact expressions he had used. He had not asserted of his own knowledge any fact whatever, nor had he quoted any authority. He said that rumours
 193
 MR. S. HERBERT : I have lately, on a previous occasion, ventured to trespass on the House at some length on the subject of the Bill which comes now, at length the second time, before us for discussion, and from which has arisen so much of acrimonious debate, so much divergence from the matter in hand, for the purpose of bringing against Her Majesty's Government charges not heard from that quarter for the first time — charges which the noble Lord considers he has a right to make — charges which are couched in language seldom heard in this House—in language which it would be for the character of this House should not be heard — in language which I will not repeat — in terms which I will not retaliate, so long as I have any self-respect or regard for my own character. As long as I have that respect for the character and the reputation of this House which becomes its Members, I will neither impute to others motives by which I scorn to be influenced myself, nor will I consent to import into this House, into the Senate of this country, terms and language and expressions which are better suited to some other arena than to one where Gentlemen are met together gravely, seriously, and deliberately to discuss measures vitally affecting the great interests of the country. The noble Lord says that we cannot be in earnest in pressing this Bill; and he founds that suspicion upon the fact, that now in June, when he has discovered that the days are long, we are only pressing the second reading of the Bill before the House. I should like to know from what quarter, with a face of decency, can be brought the charge of delaying the measure before the House—a charge brought to-night, not for the purpose of argument, but for a purpose very different. Because, night after night,
 185 Interruption. 186 casus fœderis, 187 188 189
 MR. S. HERBERT  said, the statement was erroneous, and the mistake had, he supposed, originated in the appearance of a clause in the Mutiny Act this year, which had, in fact, been regularly repeated year after year, for a considerable period; but, as a matter of formality, giving the authorities the power at their discretion of permitting limited enlistments. There was, however, no intention at present to alter the practice on the subject.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said, that the hon. Member for Athlone had expressed surprise at the warmth which had been evinced by another hon. Member; but it
 128
 LORD G. BENTINCK : Mr. Speaker, it will be in the recollection of the House, that at a period previous to the Easter holidays, I gave notice to Her Majesty's Ministers that myself and my friends around me would be prepared to support the measure now before the House, provided the Government evinced by their conduct an earnestness to press it forward—provided they showed a real eagerness to carry it out—provided they proved the sincerity of their intentions by suffering no unnecessary delay or obstruction to interpose, which they could reasonably avoid. It will be also in the remembrance of the House that on that occasion I informed Her Majesty's Ministers that if, on the contrary, it should appear from the conduct of the Government that they were lukewarm or indifferent—that, permitting all other measures of less immediate necessity to be carried through the House in preference to this, they gave us cause to believe that in their minds no necessity existed for the Bill—no such "emergency" as they spoke of, to justify any party in this House in furnishing Government with such unconstitutional powers, I informed Her Majesty's Ministers that
 178 casus fœderis 179 180 181 182 183 184
 LORD H. VANE  hoped the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Duncombe) would withdraw his Motion, after what had fallen from the noble Lord the Member for London.
 CAPTAIN LAYARD  wished to ask a question of the Secretary at War. It might be in the recollection of the House that, last Session, he had brought forward a Motion concerning limited enlistments; and the Motion now stood on the books, to be made when the Army Estimates were brought forward. He had been much surprised, on Friday last, at reading in the  Times, "Are you willing to be attested to serve in the — regiment of — for the period of — [This blank to be filled up by the justice with 7, 14, or 21 years, as the case may be—10, 16, or 24 for cavalry, and 12, 16, or 21 for artillery, if the person is of the age of 18 or upwards; but if under the age of 18 years, then the deficiency between his age and 18 to be added to such 7, 10, 12, 14, 16, 21, and 24, (as the case may be)] years, provided Her Majesty should so long require your service, and also for such further term, not exceeding 12 months, as shall be directed by commanding officers on any foreign station, and not exceeding three years, as shall be directed by any proclamation of Her Majesty; such additional period, in the latter case, to determine whenever six months of continuance in peace, to be reckoned from the ratification of any definitive treaty, shall have elapsed subsequent to the expiration of the said 7, 10, 12, 14, 16, 21, 24, (as the case may be) years?" 123 Times
 MR. NEWDEGATE  thought that the course pursued, in reference to this matter, by the hon. Member was most unwise; and he felt persuaded that the allegations against Sir C. Taylor were unfounded. The character of that Gentleman had been called in question; and he trusted the House would see the propriety of expressing disapprobation of the practice of getting affidavits.
 MR. ROSS  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. E. YORKE  observed that it had been most distinctly stated that a negotiation had been declared to have been carried on. He appealed to the House whether any other construction could be put upon the words made use of by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War, that some application had been made to the noble Lord; and he asked the House to judge impartially, whether, if an application had been made, that application was not made by some one? If the application had been made to the noble Lord, he trusted the noble Lord would say so, for the sake of the House and the party by whom the application was made. This would give the person an opportunity of stating upon what authority he made it. If they had a denial on the part of the noble Lord that any such statement was made, then it gave good ground for knowing that they could have no possible confidence in a Government which sought to abandon a Bill for the Protection of Life for the purpose of carrying one which abolished the Corn Laws.
 MR. BANKES  put it to the hon. Member who had just spoken, what he would think if any person were to get up affidavits accusing him — admitting the hon. Member's character to be as clear, and he
 126
 MR. BANKES  entirely concurred with the hon. Member for Finsbury, that the House had been taken by surprise on Friday. The surprise among his Friends had been to see Ministers voting for a measure which it was thought they would have resisted, because the right hon. Home Secretary had said some time ago that he found it universally distasteful to the agricultural interest. His Friends had been very thin in their attendance under this persuasion. True it was that they had not been universally in the habit of trusting Ministers; but in this instance they had confided in them, and, as might be supposed, they had been deceived. Before it could be said that the instruction had been adopted by a majority of the House, another opportunity for a division ought to be afforded. He knew not when a more full, free, or dispassionate consideration of the subject could be given than at the present moment. The Poor Removal Bill had been introduced by Government as part of a great comprehensive
 118 pari passu
 DR. BOWRING  also thought the Motion a usual one at this period of the Session.
 MR. BRIGHT  defended the conduct of the hon. Member for Athlone. That hon. Member had seen certain statements injurious to the character of a magistrate, if true; and if untrue, most unfair towards him. The hon. Member gave notice of his intention to bring the subject forward, and the Home Secretary undertook to make inquiry; but the right hon. Gentleman probably inquired of Sir C. Taylor himself, and of the policeman, parties from whom it was not very probable he would elicit the truth. In the meantime the hon. Member for Athlone made further inquiries, and obtained from persons of respectable character
 129
 MR. BRIGHT  would take that opportunity of adverting to a statement made by the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe), to the effect, that while from some towns he had experienced the greatest difficulty in obtaining certain returns for which he had moved, specifying the number of persons removed from Lancashire, Yorkshire, and Cheshire, in 1841, 1842, and 1843, he had more especially experienced such difficulty in getting them from the town of Stockport. The hon. Gentleman had gone on to say, that "he had sent down to Stockport, and asked for information on this subject, because he had understood that great numbers of families had been removed from that town in 1842; but the clerk of the union would not suffer the persons who applied on his behalf, although a ratepayer, to see the books of the union, or afford him any facilities for his inquiry." He had received a communication from the gentleman pointed at, declaring that there was not one word of truth in the statement, so far as he was concerned; and that he had always in the discharge of his duties given all facilities for obtaining information as to the working of the Poor Law; that no such application had been made to him, nor did he know till Saturday last that such information was required by the hon. Member for Finsbury. It was added that the return presented to the House was made out as fully, and with as great despatch as possible.
 MR. J. COLLETT  wished to ask a question. It was three weeks since, in the discharge of his public duty, he had in that House made a statement impugning the character of a magistrate and minister of justice. He had then read affidavits. The right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) requested copies of those affidavits, and gave as a reason for the request that he desired an early opportunity of making inquiries on the subject. The right hon. Baronet had been furnished with those documents, and a few days subsequently had stated that they were extrajudicial, and that therefore no proceedings could be taken against the parties in question in case they turned out to be untrue. The right hon. Gentleman at the same time had been kind enough to recommend him to bring an action against Sir C. Taylor in the Court of Queen's Bench; but the question was, not whether the affidavits were extrajudicial or simple statements, but whether they were true or untrue—whether the magistrate had or had not acted in the manner alleged; and it was not to be expected that a private individual should bring an action against a magistrate for having improperly discharged his public duties. He therefore took the liberty of referring the right hon. Baronet to the statements made, and of asking him whether Sir C. Taylor still continued in the commission of the peace for the county of Southampton?
 MR. COLLETT  would maintain that the charge to which he called attention was in very distinct terms; and all he asked was inquiry.
 MR. J. E. DENISON  did not think he was open to the charge of having taken the House by surprise. The Bill as amended, in consequence of the instruction he had moved, was in such a state of progress that it might have been laid upon the Table this evening; but as the discussion of it was not expected, it seemed to him that it would be better to proceed with the business fixed for the evening.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  thought that the House ought not to consent to the Motion, so long as the Coercion Bill was before the House. After so many Members had left, it would not be fair to enter at this time into the grounds of his objection; he would therefore move that the debate on this question be adjourned. On a future occasion he should be prepared to state the grounds why the House should not adopt this proposition.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, that if the right hon. Baronet would give an assurance that he would not use Thursday for the purposes of this Bill, he would withdraw his Motion. All he asked for was, that the question should be entertained at a future time.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  complained that the Secretary at War should have spoken of the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. Smith O'Brien) as a person who desired the dismemberment of the Empire. The charge, if at all applicable to that hon. Member, was equally applicable to those who held his opinions as to the legislative union between the two countries; and when made in that House must be met with the shortest and promptest denial.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL , finding the opinion of the House was generally against him, would then withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. HUME  did not think that the condemnation of the conduct of the hon. Member for Athlone was called for. That hon. Member had acted from a sense of public duty; he had been informed, and believed the information to be true, of a magistrate having acted in a manner which he conceived to be unjust; and in bringing the subject before the public he had only taken that course which, under similar circumstances, he (Mr. Hume) should have adopted. The facts of the case could certainly not be ascertained without some inquiry.
 Mr. MORGAN J. O'CONNELL  said, that however he might differ from the conclusions and opinions of the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland, his tone and temper were such that no one could find fault with; and the best proof which he (Mr. O'Connell) could give of the respect which he entertained for this tone and temper was to treat the question as nearly as possible in a similar manner. If he believed the Bill to be what it purported to be—a Bill for affording greater security to life and property in Ireland—that it was called for, and that it was better calculated to effect that purpose than the existing law, no party considerations should induce him to oppose it; but the noble Lord had altogether failed to convince him that such was the case. The statement of the noble Lord that there had been rather an increase than a diminution of crime astonished him (Mr. O'Connell), and he heard that statement with a constitutional distrust, taken, as it was, from the officials in Ireland. He would advise the noble Lord, as Secretary for Ireland, or whoever might be Secretary
 174 175 176 177
 MR. P. SCROPE  thought that it was a most insulting mode, adopted by the hon. Gentleman, of dealing with the case, to make, first, a very strong charge, and then to ask if Sir C. Taylor still held a commission of the peace. The hon. Gentleman had, when he found his case breaking down, sent a fishing commission, consisting of an attorney, down to Southampton,
 125 ex parte
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, that after all, this debate was a much ado about nothing. The hon. Member for Athlone appeared to be a sort of monomaniac upon matters of this kind, and before bringing such charges upon the testimony of a convicted felon, he ought to have made a more diligent inquiry. The hon. Member, no doubt, believed the charges to be true; but those who knew the hon. Member took them  cum grano sails,
 MR. B. OSBORNE : Was that agrarian?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  would appeal to the hon. the Secretary for Ireland, to the right hon. the Home Secretary, and to the other hon. and right hon. Gentlemen on the Ministerial bench, not to allow this important question to be put and decided in a House of barely forty Members. Notwithstanding the long pause that had taken place after the last speaker sat down, the Members of the Government had sat still in their places, whether from incapacity to meet the arguments that had been advanced, from contempt of the Irish people, or from both, it was impossible to say. He was very much inclined to think it was from incapacity, because it had been said of that noble Lord who now filled the office of Secretary for Ireland, that, with the very best intentions, of any real knowledge of the condition or wants of Ireland he was as innocent as the child that was unborn. And he understood that that noble Lord had been obliged to run and ask questions of the noble Lord who had been Secretary for Ireland, the Earl St. Germans. [Lord LINCOLN: I never asked any questions at all.] He hoped, then, the noble Lord would ask some questions; for he believed there was not a more ignorant Member in the House, on the subject of Ireland, with the best intentions, possibly, than the noble Lord, the late unsuccessful candidate for Nottinghamshire. An anecdote had been told him that that noble Lord had found out that it was necessary to reside six years in Ireland before any one was at all qualified to give an opinion on Irish affairs. The noble Lord had now been six months in Ireland; so that it might have been supposed he had come down, ready primed, to give some answer to the Amendment that had been moved, and the arguments by which it had been enforced. Passing by the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland, he would call on the right hon. Baronet the First Minister of the Crown, not to suffer this Bill to end in
 143
 MR. SHEIL : What was the hour?
 Mr. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that on a former evening he had moved that the Committee on the Poor Removal Bill be taken
 115 116
 MR. DUNCOMBE  wished to know what course the right hon. Gentleman proposed to take in reference to the Poor Removal Bill?
 MR. WAKLEY  could not agree that the House had been taken by surprise, for the notice had been ample. Before the recess the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) had stated that the discussion would certainly be taken on Friday. He was astonished to learn that the agricultural interest was so strongly opposed to the measure, for 1844 and 1845 a feeling against it had been displayed on the opposition side of the House. The question was a most important one, and, considering the helpless condition of the hundreds of thousands affected, it ought to be debated without any tinge of party feeling. He trusted that it would be impressed upon the minds of all that the law would operate upon the poor for many years to come. He had paid the utmost attention to the subject. He had considered it in all its bearings, and he frankly owned that he knew not what course to take in consequence of the vote of Friday night. He really wanted more time. The Motion of his hon. Colleague referred to giving relief in unions, not in parishes, and he wished the House to bear that especially in mind. It involved a question of the continuance of unions under the Government of the Poor-law Commissioners. He had been sitting for some time on a Committee which was inquiring into the subject, and although he was bound not to disclose what passed, he might say,
 120
 MR. WAKLEY  conceived that, after what had been said, there remained only one course for the friends of Sir C. Taylor to pursue, and that was to move the appointment of a Committee. ["Oh!"] Why, they were dissatisfied with what had been done. They thought the allegations of the hon. Member for Athlone (Mr. Collett) were unjust; and they ought, therefore, at once to institute an inquiry in order that they might know the truth. The hon. Member fully believed in the correctness of his statements; and, as the right hon. Baronet did not, nevertheless, think it necessary to make any further inquiries, it became the imperative duty of the House to inquire how the magistrate had acted, and if it were customary for the poor to be entrapped into the commission of crime for the purpose of being thrown into gaol. A case which, both as regarded the individual and the House, more loudly called for investigation, he had never known.
 MR. W. R. COLLETT  said, he had been put to much trouble by his constituents mistaking him for the mover in this matter, and he wished altogether to dissociate his name from it. He felt that the matter ought to be carried further: he knew not whether the hon. Member for Athlone were right or wrong, but in his position he was bound to prove his statements. He (Mr. W. R. Collett) had made inquiry, and had found that there was not a more worthy or honourable magistrate in England than Sir C. Taylor. Unless the hon. Member for Athlone apologized, it was incumbent that some further step should be taken.
 SIR J. GRAHAM : It would be remembered that when the hon. Gentleman
 124
 SIR J. GRAHAM  would not object to the Motion of the hon. Member if it were agreed to on the understanding that the Order of the Day was only read first for the purpose of postponing it. A majority of the House having on Friday decided on adopting the instruction moved by the hon. Member for Malton, he (Sir J. Graham) on Saturday morning gave directions for the preparation of clauses which in his judgment would give effect to it. Those clauses were ready, but he had not yet had time to consider them. If the Order of the Day were postponed to Wednesday or Thursday, he would be prepared on either of those days, in obedience to the decision of a majority of that House, to go into Committee  pro formâ, 117 pro formâ
 SIR J. GRAHAM  proposed to make it an Order of the Day for Thursday.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  stated, that he by no means departed from the pledge he had given. He meant to extend the principle of irremovability to the cases of all Irishmen who had resided for five years in the place where they might fall destitute. Had it not been for the high authority of the hon. and learned Gentleman, he should have thought the present words in the Bill sufficient for the purpose.
 SIR R. PEEL  thought it would be better to see the Bill before coming to a decision on the subject. The opinion of the House might afterwards be distinctly taken on the question of union settlements.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that the great majority of Members present must have come down with the expectation that the second reading of the Bill for the Protection of Life in Ireland was the chief subject for discussion this evening. When opportunities had become so precious, he should be sorry that a night should be lost. He regretted that the hon. Member for Finsbury seemed to think he had not fulfilled any engagement into which he had entered: he was always anxious to be explicit, and to carry into effect all his assurances; but the House would be aware of the difficulties with which he had to contend, arising very much from not being able to foresee to what length discussions might be carried. He had always felt that the second reading of the Poor Removal Bill had been agreed to, in order that the debate might be taken on the question that the Speaker leave the Chair; and, notwithstanding the great pressure of some Votes in Supply, he had given way, in order that a night might be devoted to the Poor Removal Bill. He could not admit that he had ever led to the expectation that it should proceed  pari passu 119
 SIR R. PEEL  said, it was his intention to move that from and after Thursday, the 18th June, Orders of the Day should have precedence over Notices. It had been the uniform course to move, at the present period of the Session, that a third day should be devoted to the transaction of the public business which belonged to the Government. He begged leave, therefore, to
 195
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he had made the Motion from a sense of public duty, and not for the purpose of promoting the convenience of the Government, his sole object being to advance the public business, as was customary at this period of the Session. With respect to any stipulation, such as had been suggested by the hon. Gentleman, he could not consent to it. He had brought forward the Motion without the slightest reference to the Irish Life Protection Bill; and if that measure had not been in existence, he would have made it as a matter of course. He should, therefore, consider it inconsistent with his duty to make the Motion, and at the same time to enter into a stipulation of the kind alluded to. Nor could he see that it could prevent discussion on the Irish Life Protection Bill. He might observe that, in declining to enter into any stipulation, he did not wish to take any unfair advantage
 196
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, he rose with considerable reluctance to move as an Amendment that the Bill be read a second time this day six months. He had been in hopes that after the time which had elapsed since the Bill had been introduced and read a first time in that House, and after the course which the late debate upon it had taken—a debate in which the opponents of the measure had been more successful in arguments than in any debate he had ever listened to; successful, because he believed it had the effect of causing many hon. Members who were previously in favour of the Bill to change their opinions; he had, he repeated, been in hopes
 130 131 "Whereas it frequently happens that persons calling themselves Whiteboys have notoriously wantonly, and illegally assembled, to injure His Majesty's loyal and dutiful subjects, and have taken and carried away their horses and arms, compelled them to surrender up and leave the occupation of their farms, tenements, and places of abode, and with threats and violence administered unlawful oaths, and have sent threatening letters, and so on." 132 "Penal laws have always more exasperated the people when the infliction of the penalty has gone beyond the crime." 133 134 135 136 137
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said: Sir, although the House on a former occasion consented to the Motion of my hon. Friend (Mr. Hawes), that on the present day we should go into Committee on this subject, I think there are strong reasons why the House should not fulfil the object of the vote which they came to on that day; and I therefore rise at this early stage of the discussion for the purpose of moving an Amendment to the Motion of my hon. Friend. I am sensible, Sir, that in doing so I labour under very considerable difficulties, because I have always found, upon every successive occasion
 197 198 l., 199
 MR. F. MAULE  moved the Second Reading of this Bill. He felt it to be his duty to state to the House the grounds upon which he brought before it this, he admitted, somewhat novel and startling proposition; but he should prove that, after all, it was but a strong remedy for an extraordinary and strong grievance. It was not till all other means had been resorted to, and appeals had been made to the generosity of private individuals and to the justice and generosity of the Government, that he had been compelled to take this course. In the year 1844 a deputation had waited upon Her Majesty's Government, and, individually, upon those parties who had refused sites for churches in Scotland, to represent, in respectful and energetic language, the grievances under which the members of the Free Church laboured. He must say for Her Majesty's Government that, in private as well as in public, most of the Members gave the deputation assurances of their deepest sympathy; and their answers were to this effect, that if they had been individually concerned, they would not have hesitated to do them justice; but still no actual remedy had been afforded. In some places parties had yielded to
 208 l., 209 210 "Sir—I beg to decline to give ground for the erection of a Free church on my property.—I am, Sir, your obedient servant, "MACDONALD." animus 211 212 213 214 215 "My accommodation consists of one apartment, which I believe is not larger than the cabin of the  Betsy,
 MR. HAWES  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had made a somewhat novel discovery, that, as a question was debated year after year, new arguments were advanced in favour of it. There was a distinct opinion from the Solicitor General that there was no declaration of war on the part of Denmark, which he should take the liberty of reading to the House:—
 "I am of opinion that the instrument of the 16th of August, to which reference has been made, is not a declaration of war, and that it merely orders an embargo on British ships, and not the confiscation of them. There is a distinction between an embargo and a confiscation. It is stated by the law of England and of nations, that an embargo directs only the detention of the property from the owner; and a confiscation takes away the property altogether. There is nothing in the instrument in question which authorizes the taking away permanently any British property." 200 l. l. 201
 COLONEL SIBTHORP : I wish to call the attention of the House to those Members who did vote upon the question in 1841, and who are not present now. I find that, on the occasion of the division in that year (1841), the ayes were 127, and the noes 96; and I find on that occasion the names of the following gentlemen, who are not present now:—The Solicitor General (Sir Fitzroy Kelly), Sir Frederick French, the Attorney General, Sir Charles Douglas, and Lord Eliot, who is now Lord St. Germans. Where are all the hon. Gentlemen gone? Will no one tell me?
 206
 MR. CARDWELL : The hon. Member who had just addressed the House, complained in one part of his speech, that this question had never yet been settled by a fair and comprehensive discussion of it upon its strictly legal grounds; while in another part of his speech he invited the House to look away from the dry technicalities of law to equitable considerations and substantial merits. He was willing to meet the hon. Member upon either issue; and when he attached so much importance to the opinion of his hon. Friend the Solicitor General, which with some ostentation he had read to the House, he must be permitted to inform the hon. Member that nothing was so easy as to obtain from a lawyer an opinion favourable to your own view. For how was a lawyer's opinion taken upon a case submitted? It had become a proverb that you could attach no weight to the opinion of the most eminent lawyer, unless you saw the statement laid before him as containing the facts upon which that opinion had been obtained. Now he (Mr. Cardwell) had had an opportunity of seeing the facts stated to the Solicitor General, and the question put to him. He did not hesitate to say that upon facts so stated, in answer to a question so put, his hon. Friend could not by possibility have given a different answer. And yet the opinion so obtained did not affect in the least the decision at which the House should arrive. Was he without an instance even in this very question of the Danish Claims? For the purpose of dressing up their case, the claimants had obtained a favourable opinion from a lawyer not less eminent even than his hon. Friend the Solicitor General. Sir W. Follett, upon a case submitted to him, had advised in favour of the claims. Did that opinion conclude Sir W. Follett in his higher capacity of a Member of that House? On the contrary Sir W. Follett, having then no connexion with office, and no peculiar regard for the view taken at the Treasury, came down to the House of Commons, heard the comprehensive statement made by the then Attorney General, the Member for Worcester; and what was the course he took? He declined to give his vote in Parliament in accordance with his written opinion as a lawyer. He said, "I advised upon the case submitted to me; but I must act in the House of Commons upon the actual facts and merits of the case as I now hear
 202 ex parte etiam flagrante bello, 203 204 Annual Register 205
 SIR J. GRAHAM : Sir, knowing as I do the deep interest which the right hon. Gentleman takes in the subject which he has brought under your notice, and admitting also that this subject is deeply interesting to a very large portion of his fellow countrymen, I cannot in justice complain of the length of time he has occupied in addressing you upon this occasion; but the remaining portion of the time allotted for the discussion of the day being short, I shall not follow the example of the right hon. Gentleman by trespassing at any great length upon your patience. But at the same time I think it necessary that I should at once rise to address you after the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, and I can say with great truth that I approach this subject for the second time with heartfelt pain. This subject was discussed towards the close of last Session, and my feelings with respect to it, so far from being altered, have, if possible, received a deeper tone from the consideration I have given to it, and from the observations that have been made upon it by others. I cannot but regard the large secession which took place from the Scotch Church in 1842 as a great national calamity. I admit that that secession was large—I admit also that the evil of the secession was great—and I also admit that the conduct of the ministers who seceded was pure and disinterested—disinterested in an eminent degree; because for conscience' sake they made a sacrifice of their temporal interests. There are many principles for which the right hon. Gentleman has contended, against which not only am I not prepared to argue, but which I readily admit. I admit, for instance, that it is not for the interest of religion that the evils complained of should exist; and, I am convinced that persecution on the part of an ecclesiastical establishment is not only contrary to the interest of that establishment, but a disgrace to it. I also adopt every expression that fell from my right hon. Friend the First Minister of the Crown upon this subject on a former occasion. I adopt also most gladly, and I am proud of the opinions expressed by my noble Friend the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, in a despatch written by him with respect to ecclesiastical persecutions in the Canton de Vaud. With respect to my noble Friend, it is not sympathy in the spirit of toleration only, but I am sure that the right hon. Gentleman will allow that upon this very matter of granting sites, Lord Aberdeen, immediately after the secession,
 223 224 225 226 l. 227
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  rose to speak in defence of religious toleration. Freedom of conscience and religious toleration were not confined to congregations, but extended to the individuals who were the proprietors of land. What right had the hon. Member
 228
 The EARL of LINCOLN  rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in three Bills—namely, a Bill to provide for compensation to tenants of land in Ireland for improvements made by them; a Bill to amend the law in respect of the power of ejectment and distress in Ireland; and a Bill to provide for a short form of lease of lands and tenements in Ireland. The noble Lord said, it had been his duty, two days ago, to address the House on a subject connected with Ireland, on which
 280 281 282 283 284 285 286 287 288 primâ facie l. l. vivâ voce; l., s.; l., l. l. plus s. l. 289 in toto, 290 s. d. l. maximum; 291
 The EARL of LINCOLN  said, there were some alterations not yet drawn up in form, but they would be prepared, if possible, that night; the Bills would certainly be printed to-morrow.
 The EARL of LINCOLN  thought though the law was as the hon. Gentleman stated, that, practically, the case was not of frequent occurrence; that, however, was not a reason why they should not interfere with it. He had recommended the introduction of a provision on the subject; but it had been struck out on the advice of an eminent lawyer connected with Ireland; he could not tell exactly the reason why it was struck out; but he would ascertain before the next discussion what were the objections to it.
 SIR R. FERGUSON  said, there was an Act of Parliament passed eleven years ago, by which a person who obtained a verdict in such a case could recover what he had paid, and 10 per cent on the amount.
 MR. SHAW  congratulated the House on the unanimity which prevailed in giving a favourable reception to the Bills of the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland. He would not say a word to disturb it. He had felt tempted to make a few observations on the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Kilkenny (Mr. John O'Connell); but he thought it better, considering the good spirit in which that preliminary discussion had been conducted, that they should not then commit themselves to any differences: no one, of course, would be bound to particular details; but he did hope the measure would be generally safe and satisfactory, and that, in its future stages, it would be debated with the same good feeling and temper it had been that night. He wished his noble Friend (Lord Lincoln) joy of having had so much success
 293
 SIR W. H. BARRON  rose, pursuant to notice, for the purpose of bringing before the House the petition of John Donovan, an officer dismissed from the Customs; and likewise to move for a Committee to inquire into the case. The hon. Baronet was proceeding to state the circumstances under which the dismissal took place, when the House being counted there were only thirty-four Members present.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, as the Ministry had thought it necessary to avoid a bold and just course of action between the Irish landlords and their tenants, the present was the next best thing they could have done. If they had declined establishing a kind of tenant-right, they had shown an indication to do as much as the difficult circumstances of the case permitted.
 MR. P. SCROPE  concurred in the approval that had been bestowed on the measures; but he should deceive the House if he led it to believe they would be sufficient. Nine persons out of ten who gave evidence before the Devon Commission understood by compensation to tenants, compensation for improvements already made, as well as for the future. Considering the enormous number of the tenant class in Ireland—upwards of 600,000—and that as a general rule all improvements were made by the tenant, he thought there would be very little satisfaction felt with it, unless the compensation was made retroactive. The late fatal affray at Birdhill arose from the refusal of a landlord to allow compensation for improvements to an outgoing tenant. That was only one case out of many. He believed it would readily be admitted that the rights of property in land were founded upon an assumption that the party who held the land, or those from whom he derived, had improved the land, and brought it out of a state of nature. Now, if the right of the landlord were founded upon the principle of improvement, how much more so were the rights of the tenant? With these observations, he should on the present occasion content himself; and he earnestly hoped that he had said nothing calculated to disturb the harmony
 294
 MR. B. OSBORNE  would not go into any discussion of the Bills; but it would be unjust and ungenerous on his part towards the noble Lord, after the imputation he had thrown on him on a former evening, if he did not express his sense of the clear, able, and cheering statement the noble Lord had made on the present occasion. He could not agree with the hon. Member for Rochdale in his regret that the compensation to tenants was not retrospective. Many things built by tenants and considered improvements by them, were deemed anything but improvements by the landlords. It would be impossible, with satisfaction to both parties, to make the compensation retroactive; all they could look to was amelioration for the future. The alteration of the stamp duties would have a good moral effect, and insure a revenue also; for, in many cases, the tenant now declined taking a lease only upon the ground of expense. He tendered the noble Lord his thanks for his present proposition, and asked when the Bills would be printed?
 MR. WYSE  asked if any provision had been made for securing the tenant from paying his rent to the head landlord if the middleman failed, though he might have paid it already to the middleman himself?
 MR. S. CRAWFORD , after alluding to the exertions he had made for ten years to effect similar improvements in the present law, and the little encouragement he had met with in doing so, said he was fully aware of the difficulties of the question, and hoped the noble Lord's Bills might effect the objects in view. He expressed the greatest satisfaction that the question had been taken up by the Government; though he could not go into the details, he rejoiced it had been submitted to Parliament with a chance of an equitable adjustment. He thought it was a great omission that the compensation to tenants did not apply to improvements already made, and only affected those improvements that might be made hereafter. Nor ought the amount to be limited to three years' rental of the holding. He had a tenant who, on a rental of 69 l. l.; l. l.; l. l. l.; l.
 An HON. MEMBER  begged to ask the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) whether any steps had been taken on the part of the Home Office to institute further inquiry into the late awful cases of poisoning in Norfolk, and to prevent the possible repetition of such crimes. He wished to know whether the attention of the registrar-general of deaths had been directed to the subject, and whether it would not be advisable for all registrars to refuse to enter notices of sudden death, until inquiry should have been instituted?
 MR. O'CONNELL  availed himself of the Order of the Day for resuming the adjourned debate on the Protection of Life (Ireland Bill) to express his regret that he had not been able to be present yesterday when the noble Earl opposite (the Earl of Lincoln) made his speech on introducing his three Bills. He hoped he should not be considered arrogant if he apologized for his absence; but he was at a meeting on
 377 378
 The EARL of LINCOLN  regretted to find that some misapprehension existed as to what he had said of a return laid before the Commission of which the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House was a Member. One of the last things he should have contemplated was to use expressions in that House which he thought likely to imply that any feeling of partiality existed either on the part of the hon. Gentleman himself or of his Colleagues, who
 407
 MR. DILLON BROWNE  thought the right hon. Gentleman's premises did not justify his conclusion; he had not offered a single argument in favour of the Coercion Bill, and yet he voted for it. He (Mr. D. Browne) was glad he did not succeed in getting rid of this measure by counting out the House in a former part of the debate: it had now taken a turn likely to be more satisfactory to the people of Ireland. The protectionist party had given an assurance that they would not support a coercive policy towards Ireland, unless a stronger case was established than that made out by the right hon. Baronet. That case had been much weakened by the late speech of the noble Secretary for Ireland. The Government had shifted its ground; if the particular grounds no longer existed, the Bill could not be the particular remedy; why was there not a new measure? In the statement of the noble Lord (the Secretary for Ireland) there could be found nothing whatever which would justify the House in passing a measure of so unconstitutional a character. The cases of outrage which were mentioned were those of the very commonest occurrence in Ireland, such for instance as abductions and forced marriages. Why, a much stronger case could be made out for a Coercion Bill for England; in his opinion, this measure had been forced upon the Government; it had not the real approbation of any Member of the Government. The present Administration had already done much, and had promised still more for Ireland; and it would be the height of folly to persevere in such a course as that which they had now, and he believed not from conviction, adopted. If the noble Lord the Member for the city of London came into office, he might rest assured that his party would never gain the confidence of the Irish people if they did not do away with the system of tithes; the people would never consent willingly to pay for the support of a Church which returned them no spiritual aid; and if a proposition to abolish that system were brought forward, there would be sixty hon. Members as ready to second the noble Lord then, as they now joined with him to drive the present Government from office for the purpose of averting the calamity of a Coercion Bill.
 MR. F. MAULE  referred to what he had said on Wednesday last, and to the mistake that had been committed in some quarters, by supposing that he had placed his noble Friend the Duke of Richmond in the category of those who had refused sites to the Free Church of Scotland. He found that what he really said had been correctly reported in these words: "He next came to the case of the Duke of Richmond; and he would not have referred to the case of his noble Friend, if it had not been for the assertion which had fallen from him in another place, that the Free Church of Scotland had shown a disposition to cavil at the offers made to them of sites; and the noble Duke instanced a case which he (Mr. Maule) believed to be his own." Immediately afterwards he had gone on to state, that, so far from not granting sites, the Duke of Richmond had granted or offered not less than twelve, eleven of which had been accepted, on terms on which he thought parties would hardly like to invest their property; he had added the reason why the twelfth site had been refused. Thus he was far from connecting his noble Friend the Duke of Richmond with those who had refused sites; and he (Mr. F. Maule) should be extremely sorry if, after the noble Duke's conduct to the Free Church, an erroneous impression were to get abroad as to the course he had pursued.
 MR. ROSS  said, that he should have been ready to vote with Ministers if the substance of the Bill had been in any reasonable degree answerable to its objects. Every measure of coercion must produce serious inconvenience to some parties, and the great ground for this measure failed, inasmuch as it was admitted on all hands that crime in Ireland had recently undergone a material diminution. The noble Earl (the Earl of Lincoln), in the course of his speech the other night, had made one important admission, viz., that all offences committed by men associated for the purpose of crime, had their origin in agrarian discontents. It had been allowed on all hands, though there might be differences of opinion as to the causes of the evils of Ireland, that there was no direct connexion between the atrocities complained of, and politics or religion. If Ireland had electoral, representative, or municipal rights equal to those of England; if her ecclesiastical arrangements were governed by principles of common equity or common sense; still he was of opinion that, owing to the
 383 s. 384
 MR. SHAW  wished shortly to state the reason for the vote which he intended to give, the more so as if the House did not divide that night, it would be out of his power to be there during the ensuing week. Under all the circumstances, he felt constrained to vote for the second reading of the Bill. Seeing the disorganized social condition of some parts of Ireland, he was unwilling to incur the responsibility of refusing to an existing Executive Government the trial of a measure which, upon their responsibility, they asked for, as necessary for the preservation of the public peace, and to afford protection to life and property in those districts of Ireland where they were notoriously insecure. Were the noble Lord opposite (Lord John Russell) in Government—and he (Mr. Shaw) presumed the noble Lord very soon would be—then he would meet in the same spirit a similar demand, if preferred by the noble Lord. Indeed, if rumour had not much misrepresented the intentions of the noble Lord, and the party with which he acted, when they attempted to form a Government in December last, they would have been prepared to propose a Bill more stringent than the present. There was an interest, moreover, independently of particular Governments or parties, with which he deeply sympathized, he meant the peaceable subjects of Her Majesty residing in the disturbed districts in Ireland. He and his Irish Friends in that House had amongst their constituents friends and acquaintances who must care comparatively little for their political differences, and astounded as they might be, in common with the rest of the community, at the recent conduct of Her Majesty's Ministers, yet those persons must practically feel, that from day to day, and hour to hour, their lives, their families,
 408 409 410 411 divide et impera 412 413 414
 MR. SHAW : I am sorry to interrupt the merriment of my right hon. Friend. I stated that, from the highest to the lowest in England, great ignorance prevailed as to the condition of Ireland, and the charac-
 418
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  said: I wish to detain the House the shortest possible time; and to this end I shall condense what I have to say into the briefest, simplest, and plainest form. Her Majesty's Government say that the purpose of this measure is to put down criminal outrages and to protect life in Ireland. Now, Sir, these are objects which we on this side have as much at heart as any Member of the Government, and we will go any lengths really to effect them, But in order to put a stop to the system of outrage prevalent in Ireland, surely it is necessary to understand and to direct your remedies to its cause; to attack the root of the disease, not its symptoms merely. The noble Lord (Lord Lincoln) said the other night, "The whole body corporate of society is diseased—every relation of life is diseased." True, most true; but what is the disease? The outrages are not the disease; they are the symptoms only. What, then, is the disease itself, and what its causes? No one, I imagine, supposes these crimes to be committed out of a mere wanton spirit of evil. No one now attributes them to political agitation, or sectarian and religious animosities. Their real cause and character no one can now plead ignorance of, after the proofs that have been laid on the Table of the House by the evidence taken by successive Committees and Commissions. I have myself proved it to you long since. I
 388 389 "Agrarian system of terror prevalent throughout all Ireland; incoming tenants generally the victims, 11. Object of agrarian outrages to regulate the letting of land; but modified by sectarian prejudices in Protestant or Roman Catholic districts; apparent from the form of threatening notices adopted by Catholic and Protestants under similar circumstances—copies of threatening notices given, 11, 12. A tenant of the name of Barry 'brutally' murdered, on the estate of the late Earl of Donoughmore, in county Tipperary, in consequence of having succeeded an ejected tenant, 11. The Shepherds murdered in the King's county for taking land from which a widow was ejected, 12. Daniel Brien, in the King's county, emboldened by the murder of the Shepherds to hold forcible possession of his farm, after being allowed his crops and 117 l. l. l. l. 390 "Of what class are the offences which are more general in the county?—Heretofore riots at fairs were the most general. Those have been almost entirely got rid of; but waylaying persons and beating them has not been so completely got rid of; and at the present time they are rather more general than they have been—violent attacks upon the person from malice, arising from different causes, but generally from some dispute in reference to land. "Have those offences generally appeared to be the act of one individual, or have there been many persons concerned in them?—There have been generally from four to six persons concerned in those waylayings; sometimes fewer and sometimes more. "Do you mean that the waylaying offences are generally connected with the occupation of land?—Yes; the malice causing them has been connected with disputes relating to land in general. "Do the parties who commit those outrages appear to be actuated by the desire of payment, or any other motive?—No; my impression is that those things in general are not done for payment. Money is given in some cases; but generally these outrages are committed from a kind of feeling that the parties creating annoyance upon the subject of land should be put down; and it is very easy to get loose persons to commit outrages upon parties meddling with land, in a way to affect the interests of the occupiers. Sometimes it is done by parties who expect the persons for whom they do it will do a similar act for them, in case the necessity should arise. "Are those parties themselves landowners?—They are occupiers of small portions of land, varying from one to ten acres—generally under ten acres. "Have you observed, when agrarian outrages are committed, that the country people about have been cognizant of them?—I am perfectly convinced that there is no agrarian outrage committed, but that the inhabitants about know all the circumstances and the parties concerned. "Have you found much difficulty in collecting evidence?—It is almost utterly impossible to get at the evidence. I have been engaged, by direction of the Crown, to investigate the circumstances leading to three or four murders committed in Tipperary. The murder of Mr. Cooper and Mr. Wayland; the murder of Mr. James Scully; the murder of Murphy, a farmer, at Foxford, near Bansha; the murder of Mr. O'Keefe, at Thurles; and the murder of Mr. Daniel Byrne, near Templetuohy; and of course I had peculiar means in that way of seeing the difficulty of procuring any evidence. In Mr. Cooper's case the evidence was procured, and two men executed. In Murphy's case it was also ultimately procured, and one man executed; but in the case of the murder of Mr. O'Keefe, though every exertion was used, I could not have it; and in case of the murder of Byrne there was evidence, but the man was acquitted; but immense difficulty is found in endeavouring to get at evidence. "Is it your impression in regard to those cases that there were many persons witnessed the murders, or were cognizant of the fact?—There were not many persons witnessing it in any of those cases. My belief is that Mr. O'Keefe's murder was perpetrated by a single man. There were
 391 "To what do you attribute that indisposition; is it to terror or any other cause?—In some degree to terror; but there is an actual indisposition on the part of the people to give evidence. They believe that their own interests are bound up in the cause of the parties committing these murders, and any party giving evidence against them is looked upon as an enemy to the general class to which he belongs. "Do you conceive that undue protection is given to the parties engaged in these outrages?—My impression is that the occupiers of land—farmers and small tenants—will all receive a man that they know to have been guilty of a crime of that description, and that they will harbour him and protect him; and he is, in point of fact, looked upon as a better man than another, because he has put down what they call a tyrant. He is sure of being received wherever he goes, and has the character of what they call a 'good boy.' "Is it the result of your observation that there are some properties in Tipperary remarkable for outrage?—Those two properties have been for some years back perfectly notorious for them, and several murders have been committed upon them. "Does your knowledge also enable you to state that there properties remarkably free from them?—I am not able to say that the freedom from outrage or the increase of outrage has been upon particular properties; but in particular districts it is so. "In the case of the two properties you have alluded to, were there resident agents?—No, not on Mr. Bowen's; and on the other there was a middleman—it belonged to a gentleman from the county of Clare. Some disputes arose, the particulars of which I am not acquainted with; but there had been a good deal of litigation and outrage upon Mr. Bowen's property. There was also a middleman; he received the rent from the occupiers up to a particular day—this I know from being present at the trial, in which it was stated Mr. Bowen was the head landlord—the middle landlord, whose name I do not recollect, received the rent up to a particular gale day; he did not pay Mr. Bowen. The lands were evicted for non-payment of rent; and Mr. Bowen, when he came in, did not wish to have so many tenants, and though they had paid the rent to the middleman they lost their interest, and were turned out by Bowen's agent. They took forcible possession; there were several prosecutions and several outrages upon it, and it has continued in a disturbed state. I have always considered that that was the origin of the disturbances in the north riding. Dis-
 392 393 "Disease," he says, "and want, soon carry off the greater number of them. They die in a little time. He knew thirty families come into the town in which he lived from some such ejectment; in one twelvemonth twenty out of the thirty families,  i. e. 394 395 396 397
 MR. M. MILNES  thought an English Member would best discharge his duty by stating as shortly as possible the grounds for the course he felt called upon to take
 385 386 ad interim. 387
 MR. REDINGTON  remarked that there was nothing which the noble Lord who had just sat down had not alluded to in the course of his speech; but he should not be tempted to follow him through the various topics he had introduced. He should merely notice the minor portion of the noble Lord's speech which referred to the question before the House. The noble Lord had told the House of the danger and alarm which prevailed in Ireland, and had said that a great riband conspiracy—a sworn conspiracy he (Mr. Redington) believed that the noble Lord called it—was at the bottom of that danger and alarm. But was this a Bill calculated to meet any danger of that kind? He (Mr. Redington) believed that it was not. The noble Lord had attacked those formerly connected with the Irish Government for party predilections; but had not Lord Roden brought forward a party Motion for the purpose of fixing a stigma on the then Government. It was the great misfortune of Ireland that every measure connected with it was discussed in a party spirit. How had it been, for instance, with respect to Irish crime? Had it not been brought forward, in general, less with a view of eradicating it, than of casting a stigma on the party who happened to rule the destinies of Ireland? He wondered that Members connected with England and Scotland, who had long held seats in that House, did not say to themselves—Why is something not done to inquire into the source of this evil? He was sure that they
 403 404 s. 405 406
 MR. CHRISTIE  wished to put a question to the right hon. the Home Secretary, and hoped the right hon. Gentleman would be able to give a satisfactory reply. It was, whether, on a former day, when the right hon. Baronet answered a question relative to the administration of the Poor Law, he was informed of the existence of a letter, of which he made no mention, and which was completely opposed to his answer? He (Mr. Christie) had called the attention of the right hon. Baronet to two cases that had come before the public, regarding two women, the mothers of infants, who, on leaving the workhouses of the Wootton Bassett and Ledbury unions, had had their children stripped. The question he had put on a former day was this:—"Whether the attention of the Poor Law Commissioners had been directed to the case of Elizabeth Butcher, tried at Salisbury on the 12th day of March, for the murder of her infant child, and acquitted, the child having been stripped of its clothing on the mother's leaving the Cricklade and Wootton Bassett workhouse; and to the case of Harriett Bowkett, tried at Hereford on the 30th of March for the exposure of her infant child with intent to murder, and acquitted of the intention to murder, the child having been stripped of its clothing on the mother leaving the Ledbury workhouse; and whether the stripping infants
 379 "The Commissioners think it right to state to the guardians, that if a woman delivered in a workhouse of a bastard child desires to leave the workhouse, and has no provision of clothing for the child, she may apply to the board of guardians or to the relieving officer, and they may make her the necessary allowance as for a case of emergency under the first exception to Article 1 of the general prohibitory order. The guardians may likewise, if they think fit, empower the master of the workhouse to furnish clothing for the child in cases of this sort, where there is not time for the woman to make an application to the board of guardians or the relieving officer." "Poor Law Commission, Dec. 19, 1845. "Sir—I am directed by the Poor Law Commissioners to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 10th, reporting a resolution of the board of guardians of the Ledbury union, 'That a discretionary power be given to the master and mistress of the workhouse to clothe any child in quitting the workhouse which may have been born in the
 380 "To Mr. Hughes."
 SIR J. GRAHAM  began his answer by remonstrating against the interposition of questions after the Order of the Day had been read for resuming the adjourned debate. He could not give a categorical reply to what had been asked; but as to the first inquiry he had no hesitation in stating that at the time the hon. Gentleman put his former question, he (Sir J. Graham) had not directed his attention particularly to the correspondence with the Ledbury guardians. The hon. Member had stated a portion of that correspondence, which rendered it necessary that he (Sir J. Graham) should lay the whole of it before the House. As an illustration of the inconvenience of these interlocutory discussions, he might mention that a Motion had been made for the production of the whole of the correspondence with the Ledbury union; it had been granted, and it would be placed upon the Table entire in all its
 381
 SIR J. GRAHAM : The question put by the hon. Member was one of very great importance, and the subject to which he had referred one of very great consequences. The inquiry instituted by the Crown had closed, but the report had not yet been received by him. With regard to the other question, and the suggestions of the hon. Gentleman, he must observe that it was the duty of the registrar of deaths to receive from a householder an account of the death (with its cause) of an individual in his district, and to enter the statement so made; and positive instructions had been issued that the registrars should be satisfied as to the accuracy of the statement. But as to refuse to enter a sudden death when there should exist no suspicious circumstances to occasion a doubt as to its fairness, he thought such a proceeding would be most vexatious. He would take that opportunity of stating to the House what he believed to be a serious cause of the commission of these crimes. It was the infrequency of coroners' inquests throughout the country. In the case alluded to, it appeared that no less than twenty persons had lost their lives by poison, administered by one individual, without any inquiry having been held. Any person having reason to think that death had occurred under suspicious circumstances, had a right to call for an investigation. But he regretted to say that, during the last few years, so much jealousy had arisen at courts of quarter-session with regard to the charges consequent upon holding those inquiries, as to prevent their being holden; and in his opinion inquests had not been held in a great many instances in which they ought to have been. Some of the magistrates of Devonshire had
 376
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, one of my reasons for asking for this explanation was, that considering the judicial gravity of the right hon. Gentleman, together with the statement he had in the first instance made, I must confess I did not consider the observation of the right hon. Gentleman satisfactory, and I therefore thought it best to give him an opportunity of explaining himself. I now say, with perfect sincerity, that nothing could be further from my mind than to cast any reflection whatever on the conduct or motives of the right hon. and learned Gentleman— ne sit ancillætibi amor pudori! 419 "I find it almost impossible to get at the evidence. I have been engaged by the direction of the Crown in the investigation of three or four murders which were committed in Tipperary, and I have found it almost impossible to obtain the necessary evidence." He is asked, "Is it your opinion that many persons were witnesses or cognizant of these murders?" His answer is, "I do; but I attribute their indisposition to give information in some degree to fear, but, generally speaking, to the peculiar interest that is mixed up in these murders, and the feeling that is entertained against any person giving such evidence, such individual being looked upon as an enemy to the people." In answer to another question he says that "the peasantry will receive a man that is known to have been guilty of such a crime, and will harbour him." A person of this character is sure of being received wherever he goes, and he has the character of what they call a good boy." 420 421 l. l.; 422 corpus delicti 423 424 425 
 
 Total of 1845. Five months of 1846. 
 In Tipperary 814 368 
 Limerick 282 248 
 Clare 271 189 
 Roscommon 659 471 
 Leitrim 804 164 
 
 1845. 1846. 
 In Tipperary 814 833 
 Limerick 282 600 
 Clare 271 450 
 Roscommon 659 1130 
 Total 2026 3013 426 
 
 Five months of 1845. Five months of 1846. 
 Homicide 20 28 
 Firing at person 40 41 
 Aggravated assault 85 121 
 Assault endangering life 41 53 
 Firing into dwellings 46 68 
 
 In Tipperary 286 
 Clare 171 
 Roscommon 383 
 Limerick 210 
 Leitrim 138 427 428 429 430 431 "He was old enough to remember, and he remembered it with deep and heartfelt sorrow, that he (Sir R. Peel) chased and hunted an illustrious relative of his (Lord G. Bentinck's) to death, on the ground that, though he had changed no opinion, he was, from the station which he then held, likely to forward the question of Catholic Emancipation. He could recollect that such was the conduct of
 432 433 434 "In the beginning of the year 1822—(a distinction certainly unsought and unsolicited on my part)—I was appointed Secretary of State for the Home Department, with full notice, I admit, of the difficulties I might thereafter have to combat. If I retained office, it was not from personal motives, or from any desire of the distinction conferred; and in 1825, after I had been left in minorities on three different questions immediately connected with Ireland—the Catholic Question, the Elective Franchise, and the Payment of the Catholic Clergy (which I thought something very like the establishment of the Roman Catholic religion in Ireland)—I waited on my noble Friend, then at the head of the Government. I told him that, personally, it was painful for me to disconnect myself from those whom I esteemed and respected; but that, having been left in a minority in that branch of the Legislature of which I was a Member, I anxiously desired to be relieved from my situation. The reply of my noble Friend was, that my retirement would determine his own. I finally consented to remain in office, my noble Friend declaring that he deemed it of the highest importance that the Secretary of State for the Home Department should possess opinions as much as possible in accordance with those of the Prime Minister. He represented to me the difficulty he should experience in filling up the situation, and, in short, that my retirement must determine his own. I was thus induced to waive my wish for retirement, and to consent to remain until a new Parliament had pronounced an opinion upon the great question which interests and agitates Ireland. When last I addressed the House on the subject, on the resolutions of the hon. Baronet the Member for Westminster, I expected to have been again in a minority; and, had that expectation been realized, I should then have withdrawn from the service of His Majesty. Although I prefer no complaints—for I have always been treated with the most perfect good faith—yet it was no enviable situation at any time to be the single Minister in this House responsible for the administration of the affairs of Ireland—opposed by all my Colleagues, and daily seeing those very Colleagues, the Members of the Government, actively concerting measures with my political opponents. They were at perfect liberty to do so; for it was understood that every man might exert himself, either in opposition to, or in promotion of, the Roman Catholic claims. I make no complaint, I prefer no charge on this account; I can only state the fact, as the reason which made my situation extremely embarrassing. The support and assistance I received from my noble Friend (Lord Liverpool) certainly rendered my difficulties less; but if, in the place of him with whom I cordially concurred—with whom I entered into public life—and between whom and myself there never was a shadow of difference of opinion upon any subject;—if, I say, in his place, I find my right hon. Friend, with whom I had the misfortune at all times to differ upon that paramount question, it is obvious that it was impossible for me to retain the particular situation I held, of Secretary of State for the Home Department, connected as it was with the office of Prime Minister. Is there an hon. Gentleman who hears me who does not feel that if it was impossible for
 435 "To begin with the more agreeable part of my task, the speech of my right hon. Friend, I shall confirm the greater part of that speech. I can bear testimony that throughout the whole of the discussions that have taken place since Parliament was adjourned, I have kept up with my right hon. Friend the most constant and confidential intercourse; and throughout have I found in him the same candour and sincerity, and the expression of the same just feelings, and a uniform exhibition of the same high principle, to which he has laid claim in the address which he has this night delivered. I assure the House that they much mistake the position in which I have the honour to stand, who believe that position to be one of gratified ambition, or as conveying the feeling of unalloyed satisfaction. From the beginning of these discussions I foresaw—both of us foresaw—that they must terminate in a separation; which I hope to God may be only for a time! Had the question been merely between my right hon. Friend and myself, and had it been to be decided by his retirement or by mine, I do most solemnly declare it should have been decided by the latter alternative." 436 437
 SIR R. PEEL  said: Sir, the question which we shall have to decide, when a vote
 415 416 417
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  complained of the assertions which had been made in the course of the present and preceding debates against the landlords of Ireland—assertions which he was prepared to contend and prove were wholly at variance with, and made in ignorance of, the facts. It had been the great misfortune of Ireland, that in former days and under circumstances over which the present possessors of property in that country had no control, the lands had been greatly subdivided; but he believed that, taking the landlords of Ireland as a body, they had the same kindly feelings — the same anxious desire to benefit those whom Providence had committed to their care—to alleviate their necessities, and to minister to their wants, as those of any other part of the realm. In justice to the landlords of the county in which he resided—a county which comprised one-twelfth of the whole population of Ireland, he must be permitted to call attention to the words addressed to himself and the other grand jurors of that county by an authority which could not be questioned. Mr. Justice Burton, after congratulating them upon the peaceable state of their county, said—
 "He could not conceive how it could be in that condition, except from the knowledge that it was inhabited by gentlemen of rank and distinction, who knew how to do their duty, and were able as they were willing to keep their districts as they ought to be." 398 "We feel ourselves warranted in representing to your Excellency that during the summer and autumn, the number who joined the standard of the Repeal Association was very great, and that from time to time since the most alarming demonstrations have been made, and the terror of the loyal and peaceable inhabitants has been so great, that on the occasion of these signal fires, which lately blazed on every hill, they fled from their houses, and remained in the fields with their families during the whole night. If protection be not afforded, those who have the means of leaving the country must and will seek protection elsewhere. We shall rely on your prompt attention to this representation, which nothing but a paramount sense of our responsibility as magistrates, a strong feeling of the imminent danger to which the lives and properties of the loyal and peaceable
 399 "We feel convinced that unless such a regular force be supplied, the loyal will not, and can hardly be expected to remain unarmed in the midst of dangers to themselves and families." "Ireland was therefore left once more at the mercy of its prelates: they might now by a vote have almost atoned for the original baseness of their predecessors, and arrested the bloody progress of centuries of desolation. But the canon law was the only code which they desired to establish generally; and the law of England was even then too favourable to liberty, not to be viewed with alarm by men who aimed at despotic power. On the one hand, they wished for a continuance of the inequality between the races, because, in fact, it was only the gradations of servitude, and kept the ascendancy of the Church upon a higher pedestal. On the other hand, they could not tolerate a measure which, by diffusing through all classes a spirit of spontaneous attachment to the State, might diminish their own political importance. There was to be no loyalty of which they were not the mediators; and while overt acts of rebellion were occasionally restrained, a spirit was kept alive which would render their constant interference indispensable. It cannot be ascertained from any authentic record whether the counsel were met; one thing only is certain, that the bishops defeated the good intentions of the King." 400 401 "Their chairman, in speaking of the Judges of assize (Baron Lefroy and Judge Jackson), alluded to them in most complimentary terms; but they were only deserved, for since their arrival in the city they had dispensed justice as judges should do. One of the gentlemen was a stranger, the other Mr. Justice Jackson, was their fellow-citizen, and in his capacity of judge, or his station as a gentleman, was an honour to the city which could claim him as her own. He (the mayor) had the honour of knowing him for the first time in the position he then occupied, and from that position he had the means of observing and witnessing that gentleman's care and attention, his industry in noting down apparently the most unimportant facts, his ability and discrimination in detecting what many would not perceive." 402 "Quo res cunque cadent, unum et commune periclum Una salus ambobus erit."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  stated that Government having thought it necessary that there should be more frequent communication than heretofore between this country and North America, were about entering into a contract in order to the attainment of this object
 482
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  did not see on what principle the Halifax Company should have the monopoly of the passenger traffic between this country and America. The Great Western Steam Packet Company, who had launched the Great Britain steamboat, had strong claims on the public and Government; and why should they be overlooked? The contract should certainly be open to competition.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained the grounds on which the Government considered the claims of Messrs. Cunard paramount to others. In the year 1838 the Messrs. Cunard were the persons who took the contract for establishing steam communication between this country and North America. In that contract, which was to last for ten or twelve years, as well as he could recollect, provision was made for the ultimate establishment (if it should be found necessary) of weekly communications. Up to this time, however, the Government had been content with a fortnightly communication only; but now that it appeared desirable to establish the weekly system, the Government certainly did think that the claim of the Messrs. Cunard was superior to that of any other parties.
 MR. MILES  moved for the production of copies of the contract, and of all papers which had passed on this subject between the Government and Messrs. Cunard.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  hoped that, if the papers in question were to be laid on the Table, they would be accompanied by a statement of the manner in which the duties imposed by the contract had heretofore been performed by the Messrs. Cunard. He believed that it would be found that those duties had been performed in a very satisfactory manner.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I should conceive that I had a comparatively easy duty to perform, if I could at all reconcile my mind to the maxims for our Parliamentary conduct which have been laid down by my hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford. My hon. Friend is of opinion that if a measure is introduced on the responsibility of Her Majesty's Government for the protection of life and property—that being the assumption on the face of the Bill—it does not much matter what we are able to prove—that it does not much concern us what are the provisions of the Bill—that they may be irritating rather than consoling, and ineffective for any good purpose—but that still it is our duty, as a deliberate House of Parliament, to give our assent to that Bill. Sir, to such doctrines I can by no means assent. I can understand, indeed, that on Motion for leave to bring in a Bill, or on the first reading of a Bill brought down to us from the House of Lords, that so much is due to the authority of Her Majesty's Government or the other House of Parliament, that it may be right in this House to consent to the introduction of such a Bill, and to wait until a still further stage for its examination. But that we should altogether agree to such a Bill in all its stages—that we should impose upon the people an act
 497 "The very frequent instances in which the crime of deliberate assassination has been of late committed in Ireland," "To consider whether any measures can be devised calculated to give increased protection to life, and to bring to justice the perpetrators of so dreadful a crime." 498 499 500 501 502 503 "In Leitrim there is an overwhelming military force, which it would be impossible to spare for other places; and there have also been on the part of the magistrates, and of the stipendiary magistrates, the greatest exertions, which have caused this improvement." 504 "shall unlawfully compel, or by force or threats attempt to compel, any of Her Majesty's subjects to quit his habitation, farm, possession, or lawful employment, shall be guilty of felony, and suffer death." 505 "maliciously injure the habitation or goods of any person, or shall forcibly take away any gun or sword, or other offensive weapon, or money, or cause the same to be delivered by threats or menace, shall suffer death as a felon." "being arrested with any fire-arms, firelock' pistol, or any offensive weapon, or having his face or body disguised in any manner whatsoever, or wearing any particular badge, dress, or uniform not usually assumed by Her Majesty's subjects on their lawful occasions, shall use, assemble, or appear, by day or by night, to the terror of Her Majesty's subjects, guilty of a misdemeanour." 506 "That there being no manufactures in the country, the actual existence of the peasantry depends upon their having land; there are twenty persons to offer for every farm. The whole disturbances of the country depend upon the desire to keep it." "That it does not make a particle of difference whether the person put in is a Catholic or a Protestant; he is equally the object of their fury, and they would murder him equally." 507 "That there is great deal of misery in every shape among the poorer classes, whether they have land or not; that a poor man, turned out of his land without the means of maintaining his family, will endeavour to get it by crime if he cannot by other means; and that such a state of things must necessarily involve people in crime, when they are reduced to destitution by being turned out of their lands without having any means of subsistence." "That the great groundwork of all Whiteboy offences is connected with land; that the increase of crime is attributable more to social than political causes. Political agitation and religious differences appear only to increase crime by affecting the social condition of the people. Whatever affects the tenancy of land will instantly affect crime." "The general cause of outrages at all times in Ireland is anxiety to possess land; such has been the case since 1761. Whilst I have been Crown Solicitor (for twenty-five years) I could trace almost every outrage to some dispute about land." "That the prevailing cause of outrages is the letting and possession of land, and the dispossessing of the former tenants and occupiers." "That in Roscommon, Leitrim, and Sligo, the outrages arise from the taking of land." "That the murders and outrages that have lately happened in Galway have arisen from disputes about land, and that the principal and primary object of all associations among the peasantry is the taking and keeping of land." "That something about land is the cause of all murders in Ireland, and that ejectment is synonymous with reducing the cottier tenant to destitution and misery." "That on the Leinster Circuit outrages are mostly agrarian, committed neither on account of religion nor of politics." 508 "Famine is in thy cheeks, Need and oppression starveth in thine eyes, Upon thy back hangs ragged misery. The world is not thy friend nor the world's law; The world affords no law to make thee rich: Then be not poor, but break it." 509 d., d., d., 510 511 512 513 514 515 Nation, 516 517
 LORD WORSLEY  said, that the measure was one to which he should feel it his duty to offer his strenuous opposition. He did not think that it was consistent with wisdom, justice, or sound policy to continue to govern Ireland on a system of
 483 484 485 486
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, if the noble Lord has keenly felt the unjust attacks of those who supplanted him in power, he has at least the consolation of receiving a noble revenge; and each time his pupils rise before the red box to whose authority they have succeeded, the noble Lord must, I am sure, feel that though he has not yet recognized on their part that spontaneous gratitude which his generous sympathies might alike claim and yield, yet he must be conscious that he is receiving from right hon. Gentlemen and from noble Lords ample compensation for the injustice which the nation now universally acknowledges that he has received at their hands. Sir, the noble Lord has treated this subject with an eloquence habitual to him whenever he touches upon the subject of Ireland, the case now before us. I for one do regret, and I do not refrain from expressing my regret, that the fate of a Ministry is supposed to depend, after all that has occurred this Session, upon an Irish question. This, however, I feel, not only that it was not owing to any of the Gentlemen who sit upon these benches that the circumstances which now engage us have occurred, but that we have shown ourselves upon the earliest occasion, and on the first opportunity, ready to discuss the question now before us; and I think I may say that whatever may have been the policy of the Government with respect to other questions, and however enraged and outraged may have been the feelings of many on this side of the House as to the general policy pursued by Her Majesty's Ministers, I feel I am justified in stating, that from the very first, and on the earliest opportunity, we evinced a desire not to treat in a party fashion the measure now before us. Sir, it is impossible for us to forget at the end of June the circumstances under which this measure is brought forward. This measure is an unconstitutional measure, as is now universally acknowledged; and this measure is an unconstitutional measure with respect to the country which, of all others, requires to be treated with consideration and delicacy. Then I may ask the House whether the manner in which the subject was brought under consideration in another place; whether the manner in which this measure was there brought forward, origin-
 518 519 520 primâ facie The Times, 521 "The war against Indian meal has extended from the workhouse to the gaol of Limerick, and its introduction as an article of food had well nigh led to serious consequences. In pursuance of a resolution of the board of superintendence, sanctioned by the Court of Queen's Bench, the breakfast dietary of the prisoners has been changed from oatmeal to Indian meal stirabout. It was served out for the first time on Wednesday, when every prisoner, male and female, refused to use it. The number at present confined is 107, and, displeased at not having the former dietary to which they were accustomed, all refused to do the usual prison work, notwithstanding the remonstrance of the governor, Mr. Woodburne, and the Roman Catholic chaplain, the Rev. Mr. Bourke, whose advice they scoffed at. Shouting, yelling and whistling were heard in all the yards. On Thursday morning the prisoners evinced the same obstinate defiance, and would not work. The prisoners swore vengeance against those who introduced the new dietary, and said they would die to a man, sooner than use it." 522 523 524 "Sed tu oblitus es At Dî meminerint, meminit fides fides." 525 "If it is asserted that I wished to interfere in the settlement of this question by the noble Lord opposite, that is the foulest calumny which the
 526 "That the noble Lord had assumed, for the first time, a license in debate, a license that was injurious to the cause of legitimate debate." "We had been addressed in language never before used in Parliament, and which he hoped would never be made use of again." 527 a laugh "And once for all, let no man complain of strong language. Things have now arrived at such a crisis as renders it impossible to speak without warmth. Delicacy and reserve are criminal where the interests of England are at hazard." "The various points in dispute are such as strike to the heart, and it were unmanly and pusillanimous to wrap up in smooth and deceitful colours objects which, in their nature and consequences, are calculated to fill us with a mixture of indignation and horror." 528 "But for God's sake strangle us not in the very moment when we look for success and triumph by an infamous string of bedchamber janisaries." "The whole compass of language did not afford words sufficiently strong to mark the contempt he entertained for their conduct — their impudent avowal of political profligacy, as if that species of treachery were less infamous than any other. It was not only a degradation of a station which ought to be occupied only by the highest and most exemplary honour, but they forfeited by it all claim to the character of gentlemen, and were reduced to a level with the meanest and basest of the species." Laughter. 529 530 Hansard: "So far as my own course in this question is concerned, it is the same with that which suggested itself to my mind in 1825, when I was His Majesty's Principal Minister for the Home Department, and found myself in a minority of this House upon this question. When I then saw the numbers arrayed against me, I felt that my position as a Minister was untenable. The moment, Sir, that I, the Minister responsible for the government of Ireland, found that I was left in a minority on the question, which was of paramount interest and importance to that country, that moment I sought to be relieved from the duties and responsibility of office. I stated to the Earl of Liverpool, who was then at the head of the Administration, that in consequence of the decision given against me in this House, it was my anxious wish to be relieved from office." 531 Hansard, Mirror of Parliament, verbatim Mirror of Parliament, "So far as I am personally concerned, I beg to say, my own course is the same as that which suggested itself to my mind in 1825, when I was His Majesty's Principal Minister for the Home Department, and found myself in a minority upon the Catholic question in this House. I felt that, looking at the numbers arrayed against me, my position as a Minister was untenable. The moment that I found that I was in a minority on that question, I felt that it was no longer advisable that I should continue to be charged with the responsibility of Irish affairs. I stated to the Earl of Liverpool, who was then at the head of the Administration, that in consequence of the decision against me by the voices of the representatives of that country, the time was come when something respecting the Catholics ought, in my opinion, to be done, or that I should be relieved from the duties of the office I held, as it was my anxious wish to be." Hansard "I stated to the Earl of Liverpool, that in consequence of the decision against me by the voices of the representatives of Ireland, something respecting the Catholics, ought, in my opinion, to be done." 532 Hansard, Mirror of Parliament, Hansard, "If at that period the policy of conceding the Catholic question were clear to the right hon. Gentleman, I say that in justice to himself, in justice to his Friends, in justice to the country, in justice to Mr. Canning himself, who has always been the able, powerful, and consistent advocate of the Catholics, he ought not to have concealed it. If, as he now says, he had discovered in 1825 the necessity of passing this question, I ask why he did not say so in 1827, and give his support to Mr. Canning then, when the supposed difference between him and Mr. Canning obtained for him the support of many hon. Gentlemen who differed with him only on that, which I confess was the case with me?" nusquam tuta fides. Hansard, Hansard Mirror of Parliament 533 The Times "He stated to Lord Liverpool, then at the head of His Majesty's Government that in his opinion the time had come when something respecting the Catholics ought to be done, and that he must be relieved from the duties of his office." Quarterly Review, Edinburgh Review, Edinburgh Review, "Sir R. Peel at that time told Mr. Canning, in the House of Commons, that his unlooked-for opposition to Mr. Canning was grounded on a difference of opinion on the Catholic qaestion; yet at that very time he had in his writing-desk a letter in which two years before he had told Lord Liverpool that, in his opinion, the Catholic claims ought
 534 "I rejoice," said Mr. Canning, "I rejoice, Sir, however, that the standard of opposition is at length unfurled in this House. Such an act is, to me, worth a thousand professions of qualified neutrality. In whatever mind the feeling of opposition lurks, let it come boldly forth, and boldly will I meet it. I never have shrunk—I never will shrink—from explanation or defence, whether the charge preferred against me be conveyed in the avowed hostility of the open and manly foe, or in the not less dangerous insinuation of the disavowed opponent." 535 suppressio veri 536 a laugh 537
 COLONEL SIBTHORP : His hon Friend required a pledge; he would condescend to ask none; nor would he give credit to any pledge made by the Government. He had neither voted for nor against the Bill on a former occasion; but the speech of the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn, whom he was proud to call his friend, had induced him to alter his course. Never was there anything so wretchedly inefficient as the reply of the right hon. Baronet, whom he was not proud to call his right hon. Friend. The Lord deliver him from such friends! He was, therefore, prepared now to take the straightforward, manly course, of voting against the measure. He had no Irish property; but he knew Ireland well, and had never received harsh or unkind treatment from any of its people. He had never found it necessary to travel there with an escort; and he felt convinced that they had only to do their duty towards Ireland, and they might rely on being met with good feeling and good will, provided they were not restrained by their priesthood. Now what was this measure? Was it intended for the benefit of Ireland? If he could think so, he would be most ready to support it. But it was a most inefficient measure, and one which he could not support, emanating as it did from a weak Government, as incapable as they were unwilling to bring in any measure to promote the interests of Ireland. It was an old saying that a dog might bark and yet not bite; so it was by the right hon. Baronet, who had shrank from proposing any measure against the wishes of the hon. and learned Member for Cork.
 496
 MR. ROSS  took occasion to allude to a matter connected with the debate on
 481
 MR. HORSMAN  had come to the decision to vote against the measure, because he felt, on a review of all the circumstances under which it was proposed, he could not vote for the continuance of a system which had been productive of so much evil. He could not vote against this Bill on the ground of insufficiency of evidence as regarded the fearful extent of crime in Ireland, nor on the ground that the Government had not forwarded it more hurriedly. He opposed it on principle. Two measures of great consequence had been brought forward by the Government. The one was a great, large, aud bountiful measure—a measure calculated to cheer the hearts of the nation by the blessings it was about to confer on them. The other was a harsh measure—a measure of severity, imposing pains and penalties on a whole people, whose crimes were, after all, the offspring of misgovernment. He was willing to take the view that was not disparaging to the Minister. He believed he had addressed himself to the one task because his heart was with it; but that he required a spur to urge him to the other, because experience had made it as repugnant to his reason as to his feelings. The hon. Member for the University of Oxford had spoken of this as a mere police measure. If they were to look upon it in that light—if they were to look upon it as a mere isolated measure, brought forward by the Government of the day for a temporary purpose—they might
 489 490 491
 MR. COLQUHOUN  said, that if he found himself disposed to vote for the second reading of the Bill, it would not be on the grounds stated by the hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. H. Inglis); neither could he adopt the reason laid down by the noble Lord the Member for Lynn (Lord G. Bentinck), who said that he could not place unconstitutional powers in the hands of a Government in which he had no confidence; for if the noble Lord the Member for London had brought forward the same proofs in support of a measure as those that had been adduced by his right hon. Friend in his statement, he, although he had no confidence in the noble Lord, could not refuse Government such powers when they were asked for on its responsibility. His noble Friend said that there had been a diminution of crime within the last few months, therefore the case for the Government failed; but he thought the case of the Government, as stated to that House, was impregnable, and the proofs incontestable. Magistrates of different politics and religion, and of various counties, had petitioned in favour of the Bill, stating that crime was triumphant, and that there were no means of procuring evidence to convict its perpetrators; and if any one attempted to vindicate the law, or assert the rights of property, in some of the districts of Ireland, he incurred the most serious danger of his life. When the noble Member for London talked of remedial measures, as the hon. Member for Cockermouth had also done that evening, he would ask, were they to tell the people of Ireland that, although in some districts their lives were not worth a month's purchase, they must wait for a better state of things—until some arrangement was made on the subject of the Irish Church—until some measure with regard to the franchise was introduced, or, perhaps, until some addition to the number of Irish Members was made? He thought, however, that the House would be of opinion that they had quite Irish Members enough. They were a large and able body of Members; but he really did think there were enough of them. It was ridiculous to discuss such subjects when the question was whether they would let the farmers and landlords continue to suffer in a way which was a reflection upon the condition of the country. He agreed with his
 492 493 494 495
 COLONEL VERNER  remarked, that as he believed some measures were urgently required to protect life and property in
 488
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, the noble Lord had charged the Government with many things, but he had not charged them with anything more preposterous than with being answerable for the notice given by the hon.
 487
 SIR ROBERT INGLIS  inquired whether there was any objection on the part of Her Majesty's Government to lay upon the Table the Report of the Scientific Commissioners who had been appointed to take into consideration the question whether the works of the Croydon Railway were likely to interfere injuriously with the operations of the Observatory at Greenwich?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  replied that there could be no objection to lay on the Table select extracts from the document in question. It unfortunately happened that some excited feeling had been mutually manifested between the scientific men engaged in this inquiry, and he did not see what good end would be obtained by publishing mere matters of wrangling. Everything, however, of a scientific character—everything that was calculated to throw light on the merits of the question at issue, he would have much pleasure in laying before the House.
 SIR R. PEEL  was not conscious of having misrepresented the hon. Member; but if the fact were otherwise, he could only say be regretted it. He remembered having asked the hon. Member whether he was prepared to deny the allegation, that the state of Ireland was such as to require some extraordinary measure such as the Bill under consideration? and when the hon. Member replied that he was prepared to deny the proposition, he asked the hon. Member if he had not expressed some such sentiment as this, that if the adjustment of the landlord and tenant question were not to prove highly beneficial to Ireland in pacifying that country, and if, despite of such a measure, outrages were to be of as frequent recurrence in the winter of 1846 as in 1845 and 1844, he would advocate severe enactments, and would not even think the suspension of the Habeas Corpus too strong a measure? It was certainly his impression that the hon. Member had made a manifesto of opinion to this effect. He also understood the hon. Member to say, that if they were to violate the Constitution, they ought at least to take care that the violation would secure the object they had in view. That was his construction of what had fallen from the hon. Member, and if he had mistaken him he was sorry for it.
 SIR R. PEEL : I am aware, Sir, that the forms and usages of the House preclude me from making any reply to the hon. Gentleman; but still, in a matter purely personal, I dare say the House will do that which it has almost uniformly done, wave a rigid adherence to established usage, for the purpose not of enabling me to make a reply, but rather of desiring Gentlemen, in justice, to suspend their judgment till an opportunity for reply comes. The whole of this question turns upon this single fact—did I, or did I not, in 1825, state to Lord Liverpool that my opinion on the Catholic question was changed, and that a settlement should be made? The whole, I repeat, turns upon that fact. Well, then, I publicly assert, that the report of my speech of the 5th of March, 1829, is a correct statement of the truth; that I said to Lord Liverpool, in 1825, that my position as Secretary of State for the Home Department, the only one of the Government opposing the Catholic claims, yet responsible for the administration of Ireland, and seeing my Colleagues in constant concert with my opponents, made my position, being alone in that House, so intolerable, that I asked to resign my situation in the Ministry. In the course of the night I stated that, retaining my opinions, I was anxious to tender my resignation, but was prevented by Lord Liverpool, who induced me to remain. In 1825, I opposed the Roman Catholic claims. In 1825, Lord Liverpool made the strongest speech he had perhaps made on that subject; and I beg also to refer to what I said on the same subject, as utterly inconsistent with my having
 538 Edinburgh Review, Mirror of Parliament Edinburgh Review. 539 Review in extenso,
 SIR R. PRICE  expressed his satisfaction that the Board of Trade had laid down a proposition for preserving the broad gauge, and hoped that the principle would be extended hereafter.
 MR. ELLICE  said, some decision ought undoubtedly to be come to in reference to the rival gauges. A Committee over which he had the honour to preside were placed in considerable difficulty arising from this very question. A proposition had been submitted to the decision of this Committee on behalf of the Great Western Company, to purchase, or in some other way to absorb within their own management, nearly the whole line from Birmingham to Bristol; and they proposed to establish this line on the narrow gauge. The difficulty he felt was this, and he had adjourned the Committee in order to await the decision upon these Resolutions. The Midland Company proposed to alter the broad gauge from Stoneham to Bristol to the narrow. That would be entirely consistent with the Resolutions of the House, and he might recommend the Committee to accept the plan submitted by the Midland Company. But there would come such a host of objections from counsel. If, then, he proposed that a double line should be made, the parties might decline on the ground of expense. He therefore should like to have
 607
 MR. F. SCOTT  trusted that there would be no alteration in the resolutions without full time being given for their consideration; and he, therefore, wished to know
 612
 COLONEL ANSON  objected to the broad and narrow gauge lines being laid down on any railway unless the two lines were kept quite distinct.
 MR. HAWES  said, the resolutions were carefully prepared by the Board of Trade, and in such a way as to render them acceptable to both parties. It was, therefore, highly desirable, after the consideration they had received, they should be adopted as they stood. It was very remarkable no hon. Member had spoken in favour of the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montrose, who appeared on this question to have deserted his old friends, and to have taken a particularly narrow-gauge view of the subject. It was erroneous to suppose that no benefit had arisen from the existing difference in the gauges. Those differences had given rise to considerable competition between the lines on which the different gauges existed. The result had been, a very great improvement in the machinery, as well as a great increase in railway facilities generally. As to the suggestion which had been made for the appointment of a board to decide on the gauge question, he was not disposed to suggest to the House to relinquish the powers it at present possessed. He was of opinion that the Railway Department of the Board of Trade had proved a failure, inasmuch as their decisions, somehow or other, invariably were made public before they were even officially announced. He would contend that the evils which were supposed to arise from a break of gauge had been greatly exaggerated; for as great, perhaps greater, inconvenience existed in those parts of the country where the uniform gauge prevailed throughout. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, would adhere to the resolutions as prepared; for it would be impossible, if they debated till doomsday, to frame them so as to please everybody.
 MR. C. RUSSELL  declared his intention to support the Resolutions of the Government, and to oppose the Amendments of the hon. Member for Montrose. He felt bound, however, to state his opinion, that, as regarded the broad gauge companies, these Resolutions were in a high degree restrictive. The Government was, he admitted, beset with difficulties. They had to reconcile the conflicting claims of parties who had invested many millions under the sanction of the Legislature; they had to reconcile the conflicting opinions of engineers, and of speculative and practical men; they had also to deal with the Report of the Commission; and under all these circumstances, he thought that the Government had acted with great fairness. The Report of the Board of Trade was short, but it was plain and practical. It appeared to him to be founded on two principles—to mantain good faith with all, and to restrain within the narrowest possible limits the evils which must result from the break of gauge. He was not disposed to think that it was expedient to omit the second, third, and fourth resolutions. Those resolutions clearly pointed out the particular mode in which that principle should be carried out. When the Bills for those lines were passed, a condition was annexed by the Board of Trade, that the promoters of them would exercise the power of constructing an additional narrow gauge between Oxford and Rugby. The question had been started, whether the narrow-gauge line could be constructed with safety and propriety between the broad rails? He did not think any possible objection could be made to it. As far as the engineering portion of the question
 608 609 l. l. l.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  considered the question one of the most difficult and important that had ever been submitted by the Government to the House of Commons. He was happy to express his opinion, that in the course taken by the Government, they had upon the whole adopted
 602 603 ceteris paribus, 604
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he could not help thinking that great convenience would result by the temporary withdrawal of the resolutions, or the adjournment of the debate, because he thought in their present state they would fail in carrying out the intentions of Government. He was of opinion that it would be necessary somewhere to have a discretion lodged for special exceptions. He thought that the broad gauge should not be extended as a simple line, but in conjunction with the narrow gauge. He could not but think that some of the resolutions in the way they were drawn up were objectionable.
 DR. BOWRING  pointed out the inconveniences of two gauges in the South Wales district, where the broad gauge was now prevalent.
 MR. J. E. DENISON  said, there had been a clear understanding that, the first resolution being agreed to, the others should not be pressed. Many Gentlemen had gone away under that impression; he must, therefore, oppose proceeding further with them upon that occasion.
 MR. J. E. DENISON  thought there was much inconvenience suffered in consequence of this matter having been so long delayed. He was of opinion that the House should not separate without affirming the general principles on which the House should for the future proceed. He understood that the right hon. Gentleman proposed to withdraw the last three resolutions. In such case there would remain, of course, only the first two for present consideration. He thought the words "or the Board of Trade," ought to be inserted after the word "Legislature." With that slight alteration, he thought they might proceed to pass the first two resolutions; but if the last four only were to be proceeded with, he would affirm the principle contained in the first.
 MR. B. DENISON  expressed his wish that some resolution should be come to by Government for the decision of the Committee which was now sitting.
 MR. HUME  could not agree with the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. The Government had not adopted the great national principle which they ought to have adopted. It was admitted that railroads were in their infancy, and therefore the House should not interpose obstacles in the way of improvement. The Gauge Commission had been appointed in compliance with the public wish. He was at first strongly in favour of the broad gauge; it was only from perusing the evidence and report produced by the Commission, that he was led to alter his opinion, and to adopt the conclusion that, as regarded the community, politically, commercially, and individually, the line which had been generally adopted was the best. No step should be taken incompatible with the adoption of one general scale. The break of gauge was a great evil. But, while the proprietors of the broad gauge lines deserved great credit for the spirit they had
 605 l. l.
 MR. HUME  was happy that he had elicited so much information, and he would not give the House the trouble of going to a division; but, in order to have his opinion on the records of the House, he would not withdraw his Motion, but allow the House to deal with it as they thought proper.
 MR. M. GIBSON  hoped that no  ex post facto 610
 MR. W. R. COLLETT  said, that it was his intention to vote in favour of the Resolutions of the Government, as it was the wish of the railroad world that such resolutions should be passed. He hoped that Government would do something to settle the question of the gauges.
 MR. HAYTER  wished the resolutions to be carried out to their full effect, and hoped that the same attention would be bestowed on the same branch lines as had been given to grand trunk lines which had been constructed in the south part of the kingdom.
 SIR G. CLERK  stated that it was his intention to adhere to these resolutions.
 SIR G. CLERK  would rather be excused from giving a positive answer to the hon. Member for Manchester, as it involved a legal question, with which he was not competent to deal. In respect to the question of the right hon. Member for Coventry (Mr. Ellice), the right hon. Gentleman had better apply to the Board of Trade, as he had done on a former occasion.
 SIR G. CLERK  rose, pursuant to notice, to move adoption of the recommendations contained in the Minute of the Board of Trade of the 6th of June, 1846, on Report of Commissioners for Inquiring into the Gauge of Railways, as follows:—
 
 
 "1. That no line of railway shall hereafter be formed on any other than the four feet eight and a half inch gauge, excepting lines to the south of the existing line from London to Bristol, and excepting small branches of a few miles in length, in immediate connexion with the Great Western and South Western Railways; but that no such line, as above excepted, shall be sanctioned by Parliament, unless a special Report shall have been made by the Committee on the Bill, setting forth the reasons which have led the Committee to advise that such line should be formed on any other than the four feet eight and a half inch gauge. "2. That, unless by the consent of the Legislature, it shall not be permitted to the directors of any railway company to alter the gauge of such railway. "3. That, in order to complete the general chain of narrow gauge communication from the north of England to the southern coasts, and to
 596 "4. That the South Wales line, and its branches to Monmouth and Hereford, should be permitted to be formed on the broad gauge, as sanctioned by their Act. "5. That the Rugby and Oxford line, and the Oxford, Worcester, and Wolverhampton line, should be permitted to be formed on the broad gauge, as sanctioned by their acts; that the Lords of the Committee of the Privy Council for Trade shall exercise the powers conferred upon them by the several Acts, and shall require that additional narrow gauge rails shall forthwith be laid down from Rugby to Oxford, and from Wolverhampton to the junction with the Birmingham and Gloucester line; and that if it should hereafter appear that there is a traffic requiring accommodation on the narrow gauge from the Staffordshire districts to the southern coast, any suitable measure shall be promoted by Parliament to form a narrow gauge link from Oxford to the line of the Birmingham and Gloucester Railway." 597 l. 598 599 600 601
 SIR G. GREY  was of opinion that the hon. Member's Amendment would tend to increase the evil of which he complained. The difference between his Amendment and the Resolution was simply, that the Amendment admitted of no exceptions, and would declare that all future lines must be on the narrow gauge. The South
 606
 SIR R. PEEL  suggested that the resolution should run thus:—
 "It is the opinion of this House that provision ought to be made by law for preventing the directors of railway companies from altering the gauge of their railway without the consent of the Legislature." 614 "Motion made, and Question proposed, 'That it is the opinion of this House, that, in order to complete the general chain of narrow gauge communication from the north of England to the southern coasts, and to the Port of Bristol, any suitable measures should be promoted to form a narrow gauge link from Gloucester to Bristol, and also from Oxford to Basingstoke, or by any shorter route connecting the proposed Rugby and Oxford Line with the South Western Railway."
 SIR T. WILDE  was also of opinion that it would be better to withdraw the resolutions for more mature consideration. He thought that these resolutions were most inconsistent in themselves. By the second resolution it was proposed—
 "That, unless by the consent of the Legislature, it shall not be permitted to the directors of any railway company to alter the gauge of such railway." "That the South Wales line and its branches to Monmouth and Hereford, should be permitted to be formed on the broad gauge; as sanctioned by their Act." 611
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  objected to the wording of the second resolution. It was, and would be, inoperative; it could never carry out the object it was intended to effect, and, consequently, it would expose that House to the contempt of the public. The resolution would be wholly useless unless its provisions were carried out into an Act.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  called the attention of the right hon. Baronet the Vice President of the Board of Trade to a
 613
 MR. CORRY  said, that when the gallant
 624 625 Rattler
 CAPTAIN BERKELEY  begged to say, for his gallant Friend Captain Rous, that that gallant officer knew nothing of the Bill, and totally repudiated it.
 CAPTAIN PLUMRIDGE  said, that there was no finer ships than the  Vernon, Vanguard, Queen.
 MR. HAWES  suggested, that as it was near six o'clock, the debate had better be adjourned, and the rest of the Orders of the Day might then be disposed of.
 MR. CHARLES WOOD  opposed the Bill, because it proposed to undo a great deal of what had been done by the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) in abolishing the Navy Board.
 MR. ALLIX  moved the Second Reading of the Rating of Tenements Bill.
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, that this Bill would discourage the building of houses for the poorer classes. The effect of rendering the owners of small tenements liable for rates would be to discourage the investment of capital in the erection of houses for the labouring population. There was no doubt that the physical comforts and moral habits of the poorer classes depended, to a great extent, on the character of their habitations; and it appeared, from returns on this subject, that in this metropolis, and in large towns, as well as in the country, great numbers of the poor were crowded into small houses, and in many cases entire families occupied
 630 l. 631
 MR. R. PALMER  complained that the Bill should be forward at such a late hour, and expressed his opinion that it was a measure which ought not to be adopted without careful and mature consideration.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  replied: With regard to what had been said about Captain Rous, he begged to explain that he had spoken to the gallant Captain, when he was a Member of the House, upon the subject. The Speaker had asked him whose name was to appear on the back of the Bill, and he had at once spoken to Captain Rous, who, as it was a mere matter of form, gave permission to have his name placed upon it. Since that period, however, his gallant Friend had ceased to be a Member of the House; and as Captain Berkeley, now speaking for him, said he knew nothing about the Bill, and totally repudiated it, he (Sir Charles Napier) could only say that he was not surprised at that, inasmuch as the gallant
 628
 SIR C. NAPIER  called the attention of the House to the state of the administration of the Navy. He had repeatedly urged on the House the necessity of having naval men and not civilians at the Admiralty. He had also often called the attention of the House to the mode in which our ships were constructed; but he had always been met with an allegation that he was interfering with the Prerogative; and so they had gone on from bad to worse, because the Admiralty would not listen to the suggestions of any persons who were not in their own department. On foreign stations, where the interference of the Admiralty in petty details could not take effect, the ships were much better worked. The hon. and gallant Member proceeded to complain of the appointment of Surveyor of the Navy. His having built a ship the merits of which were very doubtful, was no qualification for that post. Indeed, unless a man had been bred in a dockyard, and was well acquainted with all the details, he would not be fit for such a position, however clever he might be as a scientific man. He denied that the experiments made in shipbuilding had been successful. He denied, too, that the late trials afforded any fair test of the relative merits of the old and new system of shipbuilding; for the ships were not fairly weighted, and their respective merits remained still an open question. He was very much disposed to question the accuracy of the returns which had been made on his Motion. The expense of docking at Devonport, for instance, was stated at 83 l.; 616 Penelope, Terrible Retribution Terrible. 617 Terrible Retribution, Vulture 618 619 l., l. 620 Fox Fox Amphion Fox; l., Amphion Fox. 621 Terrible, 622
 SIR G. COCKBURN , in reference to the complaint that the present Surveyor of the Navy was allowed to have so much power without interference on the part of the Admiralty, said that one of the earliest things done by the present Board of Admiralty was to have a committee of shipbuilders to meet at Woolwich, to take into consideration the present mode of building ships, and to give their opinion thereon. They had made a report, and the Surveyor had made his remarks on their report. The next thing done by the present Board of Admiralty was, to pick out three of the most distinguished persons in the School of Naval Architecture, who were to state in what respect the present form of shipbuilding was erroneous, and what improvements could be made. In reference to the observation, that they had made a committee of which the Surveyor of the Navy was not a member, he had to say that they had done everything to obtain every scientific information on the subject of vessels. With reference to the guard-ships, these ships had been prepared for the purpose of protecting the harbours at home.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  said, that the right hon. Gentleman, in moving his Amendment, must have forgotten that the measure had been sanctioned by the very high authority of Captain Rous, while filling the
 626
 VISCOUNT INGESTRE  said, he was desirous of seconding the Motion of his hon. and gallant Friend; for he considered that the measure now brought forward was one of very great importance. Since he enjoyed a seat in that House, he had to the best of his ability supported the interests of the navy, believing them to be inseparably connected with the true interests of the country. He took that course upon public grounds: he had always pursued it without reference to any party consideration whatever; and in giving his support to the present Bill, he begged it to be understood that he meant to cast no reflection whatever upon the Board of Admiralty. He entertained a great respect for those who composed that Board; and he doubted not that they were all truly anxious to do their duty. With reference to the Navy Board—which the Board of Admiralty found to be an  imperium in imperio 623 sine qua non
 SIR T. D. ACLAND  said, that he should support the resolution, on the ground that it was part of a series of resolutions which were proposed by the Board of Trade.
 MR. O. GORE  said, that the effect of this railway being constructed on the broad gauge would be to cause a break of gauge with the narrow gauge lines at Hereford; and as this should be avoided, the narrow gauge should be preferred.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am anxious to take this opportunity of stating to the House the course I intend to pursue with respect to the sugar duties. Owing to the length of time to which the debate has been protracted on the Bill for the Protection of Life in Ireland, a sufficient period does not remain to enter into a proper discussion of that (the sugar) question. The various Amendments which have been put upon the Paper clearly indicate that it will occupy a considerable period of time. It is, therefore, my intention on Monday to move a Resolution continuing the sugar duties for the period of a month from the 5th of July, that is until the 6th of August in the present year, Of course, I shall do so reserving all discussion on the subject until the question is satisfactorily opened, when the discussion shall take place upon it. I shall be desirous, if the House have no objection, to introduce the reduction for free-labour sugar, which was mentioned by my right hon. Friend at the early part of the Session; but if there shall be any objection felt to it, I shall also postpone it for the period of a month
 637
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It is better, then, say I will continue them for one month from the 5th of July.
 CAPTAIN FITZMAURICE  would support the measure, which he thought necessary for the preservation of life and property in Ireland. He had voted for the first reading for the same reason. He regretted that he should differ from the noble Lord the Member for Lynn; but such had been the change in parties, that an hon. Member on his side of the House could hardly say to which or to what party he belonged. It was an old saying, that it was a clover child who would know its own father; but he thought he would be an uncommonly clever man that would know his own party. One night he found himself in the same lobby with the noble Lord the Member for Lynn, another with the Government, and perhaps on another with the noble Lord opposite. However, he was of opinion that they could not permit the measure to stand still. Ireland would be greatly excited if it were rejected, indeed, he had no doubt but in that event there would be bonfires blazing from Connemara to the Hill of Howth. A great deal had been said about the inconvenience the Bill would cause to the industrious and well disposed; but he could not see how it would; and even if it did, it was an inconvenience every good subject and lover of peace and order ought to submit to for the purpose of repressing the frightful state of things which prevailed in many districts. The noble Lord the Member for the city of London had spoken of the expediency of sending a larger military force to Ireland for the purpose of patrolling and garrisoning the turbulent locali-
 654 655 "Though these concessions are acknowledged as a great benefit by the Parliament of Ireland, they are not followed by great improvements. The exertions of the Irish people themselves are wanted to give that good effect to them which the originators of them proposed."
 LORD F. EGERTON  had been told that by some combination of parties this Bill was to be rejected on the second reading. He did not suppose that he had any influence or authority in the House, which would entitle him to bring into question the justice or expediency of such a course of proceeding on the part of those who formerly considered some such measure
 659 660 661 662 663 664 665 666
 MR. HAWES  reminded the House that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had, in order to justify this measure, been obliged to go back to a case which occurred more than twenty years ago. He wished to know on what grounds this Bill was defended? Was it on account of the crime and outrages prevailing in particular parts of Ireland, or on the general state of crime in that country? The right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham), in proposing the Bill, had urged the first ground, while the noble Earl had more insisted on the second; and the papers the Government had produced lately on the subject of crime in Ireland seemed still further to favour the opinion that they were desirous of shifting the ground on which they asked the House to support the Bill. The statements of crime in Ireland were much exaggerated, and the returns inaccurate. The circular letter of the Clerk of the Crown to the magistrates of Ireland, desiring that witnesses should be examined in the presence of the prisoner, showed the carelessness and indifference which had prevailed in taking depositions; and there was an obvious distinction between an increase of crime and an increase of committals. Was there such an increase of crime in Ireland as to justify extraordi-
 656 657 "The Times 658 "The bulk of the people are not regularly either lodged, or clothed, or fed, and those things which in England are called necessaries of life are to us only accidents, and we do in many places without them. The estates have risen within these twenty years to near double value; but the condition of the occupiers of land is not better than it was before that increase." The Times
 MR. HAWES  thought, that if the objection of the right hon. Gentleman (Sir G. Grey) was merely technical, it could easily be got rid of by adopting the minute of the Board of Trade in the resolution; but it was not solely a technical objection. The previous resolutions were restrictive; the object of this resolution was to encourage the broad gauge in this particular locality; from this it might be supposed the House was not prepared to extinguish the broad gauge system, and hence the objection made by the right hon. Gentleman. A compromise had, in fact, been made between the contending parties. [Sir G. CLERK: There was no compromise.] It was through an arrangement, after hearing both sides; and in this arrangement, and in the resolution, the public interests had been wisely consulted.
 CAPTAIN LAYARD  quite agreed with the hon. Gentleman who just sat down, in giving a cordial opposition to the second reading of this Bill; but he could not agree in the arguments which the hon. Gentleman had addressed to the House. He did not think the hon. Gentleman was quite wise in introducing his quotation from Cobbett, showing the easy manner in which any rascal or scoundrel could do great damage to the country. The hon. Gentleman did not think that the Government had done enough to put down the agitation in Ireland; but if he recollected the trial that had been instituted against the leaders of that agitation—the jury that had been selected on the occasion—the judge who had been selected on the occasion—and many other circumstances which led to a strong suspicion that there had not been fair justice done to the parties tried, the hon. Gentleman could be scarcely justified in accusing the Government of not having used at least great energy in endeavouring to put down the agitation. Though an Englishman, he could say from his knowledge of Ireland that the people of that country, from their great patience and endurance under suffering, were not likely to be agitated unless great cause of discontent existed among them. When he had last the honour of addressing the House on this question, he said—speaking to his noble Friend the Member for Lynn—that he would be delighted if the noble Lord and his party would aid them in throwing out this Bill. He was happy to have that opportunity of expressing his thanks to the noble Lord and his Friends for the promise they had given. As that party might eventually take the reins of government, he would remind them that they must do justice to the people of Ireland if they wished to maintain the Union between the
 643 644 645
 MR. HUDSON  was sure that railway companies, generally speaking, would not stand in the way of carrying out any improvements that might be suggested in the construction and working of lines. But for his own part, he must say he had raised strong objections to the introduction of two gauges on one line. It was true that some eminent engineers had given opinions that there would be no difficulty in adopting the system; but from his own experience of railway matters he thought there would be imminent danger incurred by it, and that it would be the cause of great confusion, without at all serving the interests of the public. In fact he believed it would be impossible to carry it out on any long line.
 636
 SIR H. WINSTON BARRON  congratulated Ireland upon the excellent speech of the hon. Gentleman opposite, who had dis-
 651 652 653
 MR. LABOUCHERE  rose to call their attention to the advantage of a twofold gauge on the same line of railway. He observed, that they had had no experience of that system. But if they looked at the resolutions which had been submitted to the House by Her Majesty's Government, they would see that, in certain cases, it was proposed to introduce a twofold gauge, at the same time that, if hon. Members looked to some documentary evidence that had been laid before them, they would find that there existed some doubts as to the expediency or the safety of introducing such a change. For his part, he entertained strong doubts on the matter; but, upon the whole, he thought it best to assent to the proposition of the Government. He thought it better to take the resolution which had been proposed upon the responsibility of the Government. The opin-
 635
 MR. BENETT  would not have intruded on the House but that he was anxious to say a few words on the subject before it. If he had been in the House when the Bill was brought in, he might have put confidence enough in Government to have voted for that Bill without much inquiry. It was not, however, then in his power to be present. He had not then sufficient physical power to attend in his place, or he might have fallen into the error of taking it for granted that the Government were quite right in bringing in this measure, and have voted for it. He had since taken a great deal of pains, according to his own judgment, to consider what the effect of that Bill might be. He had first of all looked upon that Bill as an unconstitutional measure, and he felt that he should exercise a great deal of caution before he gave his sanction to a measure that was unconstitutional. He had felt strongly with respect to the condition of Ireland for a long time past. He felt that it was incumbent on the Government to adopt measures for the preservation of life and property in that country, and he would go a very great length to attain that object. But he should consider whether there was any necessity for an unconstitutional measure; and the delay that had taken place had destroyed, in his (Mr. Benett's) opinion, the immediate necessity for such a measure as this. A man, under the proposed law, would be liable to transportation for seven years on being out at night; and he should, before voting for it, be satisfied that such a law was justified by the circumstances of the country. He (Mr. Benett) had on consideration made up his mind that he could not support this Bill. He had made up his mind that conscientiously he had no right to support it. What, then, had he a right to do as an independent Member of Parliament having no regard to parties? Either to absent himself from his duties, or to vote against a measure which he thought was uncalled for? That was the position he was in. He would ask, why did they not attack the monster grievance of Ireland—the system of misleading the people by means of agitation? There appeared to be a difference among lawyers as to the illegality
 641 Registers "My beloved friends, these fires are very mischievous, and you are wrong in carrying them on. They do but little harm, though you think they do a great deal. These diabolical Whigs are watching me, and therefore I must be cautious in advising you. There are in Wiltshire and Dorsetshire immense fields of wheat, many of them of 500 acres each. Now these fields, just as they are turning yellow, are very inflammable; and they have, besides, generally public paths in them. You should be, therefore, cautious not to light your pipes on going into them, because you might accidentally set fire to them, and thus burn 500 acres at a time; for remember that these diabolical Whigs would hang you as they would hang me." 642
 MR. J. E. DENISON  resumed the debate by saying that he had no pecuniary interests in any railway, neither could he have any peculiar interests in favour of the one gauge beyond the other. He objected to that resolution which recommended that the narrow gauge should run inside the broad gauge from Rugby to Oxford. The more he looked at these resolutions, the more he thought that the Board of Trade
 632
 MR. HENLEY  observed that the Bill which was now before the House for a second reading had come down to that House so long back as the 16th March, and was then ordered to be printed. It was a Bill proposed to the Legislature, because in the Speech of Her Majesty it was said that deliberate assassinations were committed in Ireland; and the Speech was delivered on the 22nd January. He was one of those who thought that when any measure came down from the House, in consequence of a message from the Crown, that in common decency towards the Crown, and courtesy to the other House, that Bill ought to be read a first time, in order that they might give to it their full consideration. This was the consideration that induced him to vote for the first reading of the Bill, even though at the same moment the usual criminal returns made annually to Parliament did not tend to show the necessity for it. Having paid some attention to the statistics of this subject, he was surprised to find that such a Bill was asked for, when the criminal returns tended to show that there was a diminution of crime in Ireland, as there had been in England for the last three or four years. In 1842, the number of committals for various crimes in Ireland was 21,186, and in 1845 16,696 were committed for trial. Committals might not give an exact idea of the true state of crime; but still it showed that a certain number of persons were arrested, and were to be brought to trial. He took these as a test which was adopted in this country. It was satisfactory to know that in four years there had been a diminution from 21,000 to 16,000. That was, he thought, a desirable state of things; and notwithstanding that he had thought it to be his duty to vote for the first reading of the Bill. Before any such
 646 647
 MR. HUME  thought it would be better to take the duties as they then were for one month.
 MR. HUME  thought it was a prudent course to leave the parties in Wales to construct this line on that principle to which they were most favourable.
 SIR A. ARMSTRONG  said: I shall occupy the time of the House for a very short period; but as an Irish representative I cannot reconcile it to myself to give a silent vote upon the present occasion. I have to congratulate Her Majesty's Ministers upon the improved feeling, temper, and tone in which measures affecting Ireland have lately been submitted to this House; more particularly when I recollect that a noble Lord—a late Secretary for Ireland—claimed credit for himself and the Government for that, after having been upwards of two years Secretary for Ireland, he had coifed three Irish barristers. Certainly the same noble Lord gave us a commission of inquiry into the tenure of land in Ireland. Now, Sir, no doubt there is room for essential improvement in the relations between landlord and tenant in Ireland; but the right hon. Baronet must be aware—every hon. Member in this House, who is in the least acquainted with the state of Ireland, must be aware—that three-fourths of the outrages which disgrace that country, which are a disgrace to human nature itself, are perpetrated for the possession of land; and does any hon. Member in this House suppose that making that possession more eligible, and therefore more to be coveted, will cure the malady? I fear not. Sir, the right hon. Baronet on a former occasion appealed to the Irish Members at this side of the House if it would not be more for their advantage, more for the honour, glory, and happiness of their country, that the fate and fortunes of Ireland should be bound up with the great English nation, than to think of separation. Sir, I, for one, reciprocate most cordially those sentiments of the right hon. Baronet; but I never can be satisfied with that binding up, except upon terms of perfect civil and religious equality. I never can be satisfied
 638 639 s. d. s. d.; s. d. s. d.; s. d. s.; s. s. s.; s.; s.; s. d.; 640
 SIR G. CLERK  said, that of course it would be necessary to bring in a Bill to carry into effect the second resolution; but at present he could not say whether he would introduce a Bill specially for that purpose, or whether it might not be included in some other Bill for the regulation of railways.
 SIR G. CLERK  proceeded to observe, that an Act of Parliament was obtained last year, authorizing the formation of a railway to South Wales, running for a considerable distance along the coast. It was, no doubt, the object of the promoters that this should be a broad gauge line; but there were no terms in the Act expressly requiring such to be the case. After the best consideration which could be given to the subject, looking at this line as the great line of communication with the south of Ireland, and a continuous line from London to the establishments at Pembroke Dockyard, it was considered expedient that it should be considered on the broad gauge.
 SIR G. CLERK  thought that it would be premature for the House to come to a final decision as to the two gauges. All that was proposed in the present case was merely to ensure the fulfilment of the promise of the clauses in the two Bills of last year, enabling the Board of Trade to lay down rails in the two gauges, so that they might try the experiment of double lines. If this should succeed, there was nothing to prevent its being more generally adopted.
 SIR G. GREY  inquired if it were the intention of the right hon. Gentleman (Sir G. Clerk) to bring in any Bill founded upon those resolutions?
 SIR G. GREY  said, that he should withdraw his Amendment and divide against the resolution altogether. He should oppose the resolution on the ground that it proposed to amend an Act of Parliament by a resolution of the House.
 SIR G. GREY  had no objection as the gauge on which the South Wales line ought to be formed; but he renewed the objection which he had made to the former of these resolutions—viz., that it was to amend an Act of Parliament by a resolution of the House, and that the House of Lords might pass a resolution directly contrary to that of the Commons. If they meant to found an Act upon the resolution, then his opposition was withdrawn; but if not, the proceeding must be considered
 633
 SIR T. WILDE  said, that it was very generally understood that it had been the original intention of the parties who projected the South Wales line and its branches to Monmouth and Hereford to adopt the broad gauge principle; and, inasmuch as it was well known that the Gauge Commissioners had reported against that principle and in favour of the narrow gauge, the object of the present resolution, as he understood it, was to do away with that uncertainty, alarm, and wild speculation to which the project was liable as long as it was not distinctly understood how far the Legislature might think fit to interfere with the intentions of the directors, or whether
 634
 VISCOUNT SANDON : It was important to know whether, in passing this resolution, the House expressed an opinion that the broad gauge was best, or that merely it was not wished to impose upon the company the narrow, after an Act had been obtained for the broad gauge.
 SIR W. JAMES  said: I rise to order, and ask whether it is correct to refer to what occurred in former years, and to declare that the hon. Member has altered the evidence?
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, I had hoped my noble Friend the Member for Lynn would have relieved me from the necessity of saying a word on this occasion. I trusted my noble Friend would have taken a course which would at once have put an end to any discussion on the subject before the House. Sir, I am not one of those who, as a general question, are disposed to blame any Member of this House for going back even twenty years to find matter of censure against a Minister — still less if he entertained a strong feeling on the subject. Nor am I prepared to say, that the great differences which have existed in this House on subjects vitally interesting to the country, are not reason and cause enough for the most excited language from Members of
 733 734 Mirror of Parliament Mirror of Parliament Mirror Mirror, Hansard, 735
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I think the time has arrived when it is desirable on every ground that the debate should be brought to a close, and therefore I don't rise to reply to the renewed assertions of the hon. Member for Shrewsbury (Mr. Disraeli), or to point out to the House how easy it is, by culling extracts from particular speeches, to give to those paragraphs a representation which the reading of the entire speech would dispel. I have read those debates; I was present during the whole course of those debates; and I rise, therefore, rather as a witness in the cause, than as one about to enter on the argument. I was present at the debates upon the Roman Catholic question, and I have no recollection whatever of any such expression of opinion on the part of Sir E. Knatchbull as that to which the hon. Gentleman referred as a confirmatory circumstance. I know that my non-recollection on this point can avail very little, in comparison with any positive recollection which could be pleaded as to what Sir E. Knatchbull may have said. But I think, considering the interest I took in the subject, that such a statement could not have been made without fixing itself in my memory. But the question is, did my right hon. Friend entertain such an opinion, and was he then prepared to make concessions on the Catholic question? On that point I conceive myself the best witness that can be called upon to give his testimony. I have been from the earliest period of my political life connected with the right hon. Baronet. I sympathized with him in political opinion. I acted in unison with him on every public question. There existed between us the most unreserved communication of sentiments and opinions; and at no time has he taken any important step in politics without my being privy to, and fully acquainted with, the circumstance which regulated his conduct. At the time, too, when these transactions took place, I was Chief Secretary for Ireland, my right hon. Friend being Secretary of State under whose directions I acted. We concerted together the opposition to the Roman Catholic
 745
 MR. VILLIERS  said, as the character and opinions of Mr. Canning had been most irrelevantly intruded on the debate, he could not help asking the House to consider on which side they thought Mr. Canning would have been arrayed on the real cause of quarrel between the different parties in this House—namely, free trade and monopoly. Why, he did not scruple to assert that the chief reason of that persecution which followed Mr. Canning to the grave, was, that he was known to be favourable to the principles of free trade; and that it was known to every friend of Mr. Canning, to every contemporary, and to every man who was watching public affairs at the time, that the men who were really the enemies of Mr. Canning, who, if
 752 753 754 755 Cries of 756 757 Cries of Morning Post, 758
 MR. STAFFORD O'BRIEN  said, the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken had sought to vindicate the right hon. Baronet from the charge brought against him, with great truth, of having unwisely, and to the disadvantage of his party, changed his opinions as to the system of protection. The hon. Gentleman then proceeded to make a severe attack on a noble Lord (Lord Stanley) who was not in that House to defend himself; had he been, he would have needed no one to stand up in his defence; no one knew better how to justify himself, or to repay with interest the attacks of the hon. Gentleman. The gravamen of the charge of the hon. Gentleman against the noble Lord was, not his consistency, but his inconsistency—an inconsistency which had assisted in advancing the cause the hon. Gentleman had so much at heart. He had attacked the noble Lord, not so much for having been the persevering, unflinching friend of protection, but because he had so far swerved from the principle as to have introduced the Canada Corn Bill. In one part of his speech he had attacked the noble Lord for his inconsistency, and in another had exculpated the right hon. Baronet from the same charge. He understood the hon. Member to say that the opposition Mr. Canning met with in the latter part of his life, did not all arise from his support of Catholic emancipation, but from his endeavours to promote free trade. The noble Lord the Member for Liverpool, the Member for Winchester, and the Member for Wolverhampton, had all charged those who opposed the
 759
 MR. VILLIERS  repeated that the opposition of the great landed aristocracy to Mr. Canning, sprang from his advocacy of free-trade principles during the last three years of his life, and not from his support of the Catholic claims alone.
 MR. HODGSON  moved the Second Reading of the Churches Bill. In the present state of the law, no power existed to make a church rate, except for the repair of the old churches; and each parish could only be charged for the maintenance and repair of its own church; so that where two or three parishes had been formed into an ecclesiastical district, having only one church, a rate could only be made in the parish where the church was situated. In cases where funds had been left for the building or repair of churches, the funds of one parish in a consolidated district could not be applied to repair the church of another parish. In order to remedy these anomalies, he had introduced the present Bill; and he proposed that, for ecclesiastical purposes, the consolidated districts should constitute one parish. He did not intend to interfere, in any manner, with the rating for the relief of the poor; but the Bill merely gave power to churchwardens, in the consolidated parishes, to equalize the church rates. He was ready, in Clauses 3 and 4, to strike out the word "overseers" wherever it had been inserted.
 The EARL of LINCOLN  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to provide that the office of Clerk of the Peace and Clerk of the Crown in Ireland be hereafter filled by the same person. On the ground of economy the Bill had its recommendations, and it would ensure to the counties of Ireland more efficient officers than obtained under the present system. The Custos Rotulorum at present appointed the clerks of the peace; the present Bill proposed that the nomination to both offices should be in the Government. He did not propose to consolidate the two offices, though he proposed that they should both be held by the same person.
 SIR R. FERGUSON  wished to know if
 762
 The EARL of LINCOLN : Yes.
 MR. W. O. STANLEY  rose for the purpose of asking a question of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, with respect to an allegation contained in a petition from Dr. Roberts, of Bangor, as to a lunatic asylum, called Haydock Lodge. The allegation of that petition was, that the establishment in question was under the influence or control, and established by, parties connected with the Poor Law Commissioners; and that Mr. Mott, the ex-Poor Law Commissioner, was president of the asylum.
 686
 MR. W. O. STANLEY  said, from the way in which the right hon. Baronet had referred to  The Times, The Times,
 LORD G. BENTINCK : The right hon. Baronet has acknowledged that he corrected
 721 722 s. 723 724 725
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said: Sir, the charges which have been preferred against the right hon. Baronet were made by the humble individual who now addresses you, and not by my hon. Friend the Member
 712 Hansard's Mirror of Parliament, Mirror of Parliament, Hansard "So far as I am personally concerned, I beg to say that my own course on this question is the same as that which suggested itself to me in 1825." Hansard, "So far as my own course on this question is concerned, it is the same with that which suggested itself to my mind in 1825." 713 Mirror of Parliament, Mirror of Parliament. Mirror of Parliament, "After the House of Commons came to a decision, I stated in 1828 I was prepared to take the course I had been prepared to take in 1825." "I intimated to the noble Duke at the head of His Majesty's Government, that I was not only prepared and anxious to retire from office, but that seeing that the current of public opinion was setting in favour of the Catholic claims—in whatever station I might find myself, I could no longer feel justified in opposing them." "For this great object I was prepared to make a sacrifice of consistency and friendship. By whatever parties the settlement of the question was taken up, I for one was prepared, in whatever post I might be, to support any measure for that purpose, which I might consider compatible with the safety of the Protestant establishment. "The noble Lord has asked why, in 1827, I did not take the course which I took in 1828; and why I did not consent, in 1827, to assist Mr. Canning either in carrying on the Government, or in an adjustment of the Catholic question? To that question I reply, that between the circumstances in 1827 and 1828 there was this material difference: in 1827, when Mr. Canning made that proposal to me, the subject had been discussed
 714 "The time is now come—a new House of Commons having decided in favour of the claims of the Catholics, and the House of Lords being opposed to concession—when an attempt must be made to settle this question, and to that attempt I bend myself." "The right hon. Baronet stated, that in the summer of 1828, at least in the latter end of the
 715 716 717 Mirror of Parliament, "With reference to the occasion he alluded to, he asked the right hon. Gentleman if the state of Ireland and the country were the reason of his present policy, ought not the measure to have been, in justice to the country, conceded in the time of Mr. Canning? If the same grounds of argument, the same necessity, from the state of Ireland, existed then, as at present, why did not the right hon. Gentleman support it when it received the aid and countenance of Mr. Canning? If the right hon. Gentleman had not then discovered the necessity of concessions, why did he oppose Mr. Canning on other grounds, which he has since abandoned? Mr. Canning was the powerful, the consistent, the eloquent advocate of the Catholics; and if the right hon. Gentleman, in 1829, saw reason for adopting the line of policy invariably maintained by that distinguished statesman, why did he not as readily see it in 1827, when Mr. Canning was alive?" 718 Hansard Mirror of Parliament; "'Long-winded orations, passages which lead to nothing,' can never set this matter in an honest light before the people of England. They can comprehend it as little as the question of emancipation, on which they are declared to be so ignorant and besotted. They were, however, beguiled by these explanations—I was one of them. I thought the conduct of the noble and right hon. individuals concerned, a sacrifice to principle and consistency—what it was it is not now worth while to inquire, since it was anything rather than that. It is now too late to rectify the error; all that remains is to regret most deeply that, faithfully following those who have so secretly, suddenly, and unceremoniously deserted us, we were taught to regard a highly gifted individual unhappily now no more, as one who ought not to serve his King and country as the head of the Government, because he was favourable to the measures now so indecently forced upon the country. I do heartily repent of my share in the too successful attempt of hunting down so noble a victim—a man whom England and the world could not fail to recognize as its ornament—whose eloquence was, in these days at least, unrivalled—the energies of whose capacious mind, stored with knowledge and elevated by genius, were devoted to the service of his country. As to the qualities of his generous heart, let those speak to them who felt the warmth of his friendship, which, I believe, could only be equalled by its stability. Had I had the honour of a seat in this House at that time, and could I have anticipated present events, I should have conscientiously opposed him on this vital question, it is true; but with feelings very different from those with which I now approach it. This was the man with whom the present Ministers could not act, and for a reason which vitiates their present doings. Coupling, therefore, that transaction with the present—if the annals of our country furnish so disgraceful a page—I have very imperfectly consulted them. But, peace to his memory! My humble tribute is paid, when it can be no longer heard or regarded—when it is drowned by the voice of interested adulation, poured only into the ears of the living. He fell; but his character
 719 Mirror of Parliament Hansard, Hansard Mirror of Parliament Edinburgh Review 720 Hansard Mirror of Parliament. The Times
 MR. DISRAELI : I am not desirous of availing myself of the privilege to which from the manner in which this question is again brought before the House, I am entitled to abuse its indulgence. I shall confine myself to the statement of facts, and to an examination of the allegations in answer to them; and I will scarcely even argue on them, but indicate only the inferences which to my own mind it seems impossible should not be accepted, and on which the House will decide. I need hardly notice what has fallen from the hon. Member for Bath. There will, no doubt, be other opportunities; and we all know he never prepares his speeches. The hon. Member seems much disturbed by what he called the vituperation indulged in by myself and my noble Friend towards the right hon. Baronet. It is not for me to suppose what has been the effect of it; but this I can say, that however inconvenient it may have been to the Minister, it can scarcely have been so nauseous as the panegyric of the hon. Member for Bath. The hon. Member says I was once a Radical; and he says he is a Radical too; but if he be a Radical, it is impossible that I could have been one. I will leave him in the hands of those presumptuous and ignorant youths to whom he referred in language so decorous and parliamentary. This only I will say, that I know enough of them to be sure that, if they were placed in contact with the hon. Member, whether morally, intellectually, or physically, they would be able to give a very good account of themselves. I will now, Sir, endeavour to address myself to the matter before the House, with a view sincerely and anxiously to place the matter fairly before the House. There runs through the speech of the right hon. Baronet a remarkable but consistent fallacy. He says that we who have made this charge have been hunting out extracts from journals and newspapers in order to prove it. The case is exactly the reverse. The charge was made against the right hon. Baronet without any reference to journals and newspapers; and it was he who appealed to the records of Parliament, and said this is what I said in 1827, and this is what I said in 1829; they are the same, and your charge is groundless. Sir, we did not make the charge on what we found in newspapers. We made it on grounds and on convictions to which I will advert afterwards.
 737 Hansard, Mirror of Parliament, Edinburgh Review. Edinburgh Review 738 Mirror of Parliament; Mirror of Parliament 739 Mirror of Parliament The Times The Times Mirror of Parliament 740 "In 1828, when the question was brought forward, and when he found himself again in a minority, he had said 'the time is now come when a new Parliament has decided against me, and when the House of Lords are in a state of division upon the question; the time has arrived when an attempt to settle the question must be made, and to that attempt I will lend my aid.'" Hansard, Hansard "To that question he (Sir R. Peel) replied, that there was a material difference in his situation in 1827, and his situation in 1828. In 1827, a new House of Commons decided against concession, but in 1828 it decided in favour of it. He then took the course which he adopted in 1825, when Lord Liverpool was at the head of the Government." Hansard, "In 1828, however, the House took a different view of the matter, and though it did not pass a Bill, it agreed to a Resolution favourable to the principle of adjustment. That Resolution being passed, I was again in the situation in which I
 741 and cheers. The Times Edinburgh Review, 742 Edinburgh Review The Times Edinburgh Reviews 743 Edinburgh Review, Arabian Nights Entertainments 744
 MR. B. ESCOTT  thought the question between the right hon. Gentleman (Sir R. Peel) and the noble Lord (Lord George Bentinck) already disposed of by the unanimous verdict of the House. All, except a few, actuated by party motives, appreciated the justice and truth of the defence; and they all knew it was true the right hon. Gentleman might have served his party more if he had kept them together; but that in serving his party more, he would have served his country less. If the noble Lord the Member for Lynn chose perpetually to attack with his vituperations an humble Member of that House, whose only
 746 747
 MR. NEWDEGATE  trusted he might be allowed, as an independent Member of Parliament, to state what was his verdict on this question. He saw the documents on which the noble Lord founded his statement, before they were produced to the House; and he could not think that any impartial man would have hesitated on such concurrent testimony, not only collected from the individual passages, but from the tenor of the debate, to re-assert the opinion which the noble Lord had formed, particularly when that opinion was justified by means of information obtained at the time of the occurrences, which could scarcely be equalled by that of any other Member. No doubt, the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer was an important witness; but the noble Lord who spoke last had no right to say that this charge had been brought forward on a collection of loose and detached paragraphs in papers. He could not account for the insertion of such a paragraph as that upon which this debate had turned concurrently in two records, and for the pointed allusion to it by a distinguished Member of the House, if there was no foundation at all for it. The paragraph might have misrepresented what the right hon. Baronet said; but there must have been ground for some such statement or representation. The right hon. Baronet
 750
 MR. SPEAKER : The noble Lord has not said anything that is out of order.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he was a plain man, and used to plain language, and being a plain person he was utterly at a loss to understand the precise position in which the noble Lord and the hon. Member for Shrewsbury placed themselves. He understood the noble Lord to say that he was not simply related to, but the friend of one whom he was pleased to call an illustrious statesman of this country—he was the friend and relation of Mr. Canning; he watched his career; stood by him when he was Minister of this country, harassed and borne down by the weight of office, and he saw him hunted to death; he watched his career—he saw his end; he watched the shaft that struck his noble heart; he saw the bow whence the fatal weapon came; he saw the hand that launched it; and yet that hand and that man who launched that fatal shaft had, since that fatal moment, up to a late period, been designated by the noble Lord as his right hon. Friend. He was a plain man. Had he seen his friend hunted to death—had he watched his noble career, and looked upon him as a type of the greatness and glory of the country—had he seen him hunted by inferior men to death—what would have been his feelings as a plain and honest man against those who had done it? Could he ever, even in Parliamentary phraseology, have called him his friend? Could he ever in any mere formal phrase have given him that epithet; and would he have ever joined him in any private social converse, or in any way whatsoever treated him but as his enemy? He said, that as a plain man who was accustomed to use plain language—and let him now ask this question still with all the same plainness of speech—how was it that Mr. Canning, being hunted to death some nineteen years ago, the noble Lord had never had—should he say the courage—he used a plain term; he would be quite frank; he was going to say what he thought of the
 728 729 730 731 732
 MR. HENLEY  said, that if this Bill introduced no new mode or power of levying church rates with regard to the new ecclesiastical districts, beyond that which now existed, and if it did not interfere with the poor rates, he would not oppose it.
 MR. HUME  objected to the measure on the ground that thirteen Church Building Acts were recited in the preamble, which were neither repealed nor re-enacted, and that the Bill would enable three-fourths of the inhabitants of a district to sanction a rate for building or repairing churches, though the remaining one-fourth of the
 761
 MR. HUME  had witnessed with deep regret the whole course of these attacks on the right hon. Baronet, and particularly the conduct of the party in persevering, notwithstanding the triumphant answer of the right hon. Baronet. How the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, could deliver the opinion he had, was to him a matter of astonishment. For his own part he (Mr. Hume) was satisfied that what was charged by the noble Lord could not have taken place, because in 1829 when the Duke of Wellington determined to propose Catholic Emancipation, the right hon. Baronet tendered his resignation, and addressed a letter to the Duke, from which it appeared—and it had often been brought forward as a charge — that he carried through the measure, although he had never altered his opinion. He (Mr. Hume) should have hailed with the greatest pleasure at the time any such change of opinion. But only the strongest party motive could induce this perseverance in the attack. Many opponents of the right hon. Baronet must and did consider it inexcusable; after its triumphant refutation, the noble Member for Lynn should have risen and confessed his sorrow for having made the imputation. As a witness to the whole proceeding, he (Mr. Hume) must say that he never understood the right hon. Baronet to have changed his opinion, as was pretended; and that it was so distinctly stated in 1829, when the wish of the Duke of Wellington prevailed.
 MR. BORTHWICK  said, that in however humble a position he might stand, he could not think that even his dignity, however small, would be added to by mingling in the squabbles which he had witnessed that night. He rose, therefore, not to continue the present discussion, but to tender his thanks to the hon. Gentleman opposite for exempting him from the sordid motives which he had imputed to others; but he could not accept the compliment, for if his domains were as broad as the hon. Gentleman's—if his acres were as numerous, and his rents as large—he should nevertheless have pursued the same course
 760
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, the most material part of the question of the hon. Member had not been answered, which was, whether any parties connected with the Poor Law Commission had had any speculation with Mr. Mott in connexion with this lunatic asylum. It could not require
 688
 MR. CHRISTIE  inquired whether Mr. Mott, who was the master of the asylum, did not hold office under the Poor Law Commissioners, as district auditor; and whether the Poor Law Commissioners, from their connexion with him, had not been cognizant of all the circumstances?
 SIR G. GREY  moved for leave to bring in a Bill for promoting the voluntary establishment in boroughs and parishes in England and Wales of public baths and washhouses. The object of this Bill was intimately connected with the comfort, and indeed, with the health of a large portion of the working population, particularly those residing in large towns. Institutions of this kind had been established by voluntary subscription in one or two places, and the greatest desire was expressed to participate in the advantages they afforded. He might take Liverpool as an instance, where the plan had been brought into operation, and where, although a low rate of charge was made, it became self-supporting. The object of this Bill was to enable parishes, where there was a desire to have an institution of this kind, to obtain the first cost of the building out of the poor rate, and for this purpose to borrow money, which was to be paid off in a certain number of years. The Bill gave a purely permissive power to parishes and town councils, authorizing them to raise money, or borrow it for the purpose, if they wished to carry out the object of the Bill. He hoped the House would allow the Bill to be brought in. The merits of the measure might be discussed afterwards.
 SIR H. ELPHINSTONE  said, the object of the Bill was simply to consolidate ecclesiastical districts, and to place them in the same position with other parishes in this country. He admitted that funds for repairing churches were at present raised under a very bad system; and if the hon. Member for Montrose would bring forward a measure for the abolition of church rates, he would support it. But he considered that as long as they had an Established Church, they should provide for its repairs; and certainly such an alteration of the law as was proposed by this Bill, with regard to the new ecclesiastical districts, was necessary.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that his attention had not previously been called to the Bill. It appeared to him to have three objects, the first of which was already effected by the existing law. He was not aware that the measure proposed to remedy any specific grievance, or to meet any complaint. If there had been ground for complaint, such complaint might have been brought before the Ecclesiastical Commissioners. He should only, in addition, observe that the Bill did not carry the power of building churches any further than the existing law went. Upon the whole, he recommended that the Bill should be altered, so as merely to effect that which was really necessary.
 SIR J. GRAHAM : The last part of the question will be easily answered by the letter of the Commissioners, which I am prepared to lay on the Table. In answer to the first part, I beg to state that I understand Mr. Mott is auditor of a certain district, being chosen under the Act of Parliament, of which the hon. Member must be cognizant, whereby the choice of auditors rests with the chairman and deputy-chairman of the board of guardians of a district.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  had already stated that he had addressed a letter to the Poor Law Commissioners. On the day but one following he received an answer, informing him that Mr. Coode no longer held office under them. [Mr. T. DUNCOMBE: Why?] I think Mr. Coode was connected with the establishment of Haydock-lodge in a manner not inconsistent with the due performance of the duties of his office.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said: Sir, when I saw the petition to which the hon. Gentleman refers, I had received no previous communication on the subject of it; but, in consequence of the statements contained in that petition, I wrote an official letter to the Poor Law Commissioners, desiring them to communicate to me officially the inquiries which they had made on the subject. The result is, that I have received an official answer to that letter, which contains a memorandum as to the conduct of Mr. Coode, and information that Mr. Coode is no longer an Assistant Secretary to the Commission. I shall have no difficulty whatever in laying on the Table of the House copies of my letter to the Poor Law Commissioners and their answer. I have not yet received a full answer on the subject from the Lunacy Commissioners. I expect one in the course of a few days; and as soon as I receive it, I shall be ready to lay before Parliament the whole of the correspondence. Sir, I will now trouble the House with an explanation which is personal to myself, with reference to Mr. Mott, formerly an Assistant Poor Law Commissioner, who has been mentioned by the hon. Gentleman.  The Times "Mr. Mott became, we believe, the editor of an unsuccessful journal in Sir James Graham's neighbourhood, and under his especial patronage." Poor Law Guide, 687 Union Gazette, The Times
 SIR J. HANMER  wished to say a few words, which were more pertinent to the question than the observations of the noble Lord; and he would try to prove, by the words of the noble Lord, who told them that he lived in the hearts of the English people—["No, no!"]—or at any rate said he spoke a language which would find a response in the English people, that any allusion to Mr. Fox was not well founded; for if Mr. Fox had accused any other Member of hunting an illustrious individual to death, he would have been the last to support such a Member, though he were a Minister. The noble Lord had said that he had never done anything to make the right hon. Baronet his leader; but that he had done so at a time which was most important, the noble Lord could not be in a condition to deny. He said that the noble Lord, and he could prove it, had spoken at an election as a supporter of the right hon. Baronet. He assured the House that he very rarely, unless they were of great importance, or that he had not been present at the debates, read the speeches that were made in that House. Of course he read the speeches of the Ministers and of their chief opponents. Yes, he read one
 726 Mirror of Parliament Hansard. Norfolk Chronicle and Norwich Gazette, "It was then six years ago since His late Majesty King William IV. had called to his councils a Conservative Administration. At that period he appeared before them (the electors) and claimed their suffrages upon the ground that a fair trial was proposed to be given to the Conservative Minister of the late King. It was then their pleasure upon that occasion to send him to Parliament to give his support to the Ministers of that day in upholding and supporting the vast and important institutions of the country." 727
 SIR R. PEEL : Mr. Speaker, in rising, Sir, to move the Order of the Day for resuming the debate on the Bill for the Prevention of Murder in Ireland, I deeply regret that it should be necessary for me to obstruct, even for a short time, the progress of public business by any explanation of a personal nature. I deeply regret that it should be necessary for me to avail myself of the privilege (perhaps a doubtful one, as I have spoken in the course of the debate), of making any observations upon the Motion for reading the Order of the Day; but, Sir, I greatly doubt whether there be any Gentleman, however deeply impressed with the importance of proceeding with the public business, however he may regret the obstruction of that business by personal explanations, however rigid his adherence to the forms of this House—I greatly doubt whether there be any Member who now hears me, in whose estimation I should not suffer were I not to avail myself of the earliest opportunity of noticing that
 689 690 691 "That was the conduct of the right hon. Baronet in 1827; but in 1829 the right hon. Baronet told the House that he had changed his opinions on that subject (the Catholic question) in 1825, and had communicated that change of opinion to the Earl of Liverpool. That, however, did not prevent the right hon. Baronet, in 1827, from getting up in his place, and stating that he had severed himself from Mr. Canning's Government because he could not support a Government of which the Chief Minister was then favourable to the measure, which it appeared afterwards the right hon. Baronet had approved of two years before." 692 Edinburgh Review, 693 Mirror of Parliament Mirror of Parliament Mirror of Parliament Mirror of Parliament The Times Mirror of Parliament. Mirror of Parliament." Mirror of Parliament, 694 suppressio veri Mirror of Parliament. "Without dwelling on the objections as to the time at which this Motion was proposed, or its present expediency, he openly announced his objection to its principle. He should, therefore, pursue the course which hitherto he had uniformly persisted in, and give his decided opposition to the measurc." "He thanked the right hon. Gentleman (meaning me) for the candid manner in which he had declared that his objection went to the principle, and not to the details of the question of Catholic emancipation." 695 "Mr. Secretary Peel said, he had heard, and with the most perfect conviction of his sincerity, the avowal of the hon. Member for Armagh, that he had changed his opinions upon it. If he (Mr. Peel) had changed his own opinion, he should have been most ready to avow it; but, as he had not changed it, he trusted that his hon. Friends would give him the same credit for purity of motive in retaining it, that he gave to the hon. Member for Armagh in abandoning it." "If the Legislature and the chief executive offices of the State were reserved, and all others opened to the Roman Catholics, I did not consider there would be just ground of complaint." "Believing as I did that those exceptions and this exclusion ought still to be continued, and the conviction of my mind remaining unaltered by any of the arguments I had heard, I felt it to be my duty to that conviction, and to the Crown, of which I was a Minister, to persevere in the course I had adopted." 696 "His hon. Friend now seemed to expect an apology from him for continuing of the same opinion. His hon. Friend thought it necessary to call upon him to explain why he too was not converted by the evidence of Dr. Doyle, telling him that the cause was hollow, that the ground was utterly untenable. Now, he admitted that if his hon. Friend felt the ground untenable, that was a sufficient reason for his abandoning it. He admired his hon. Friend's sincerity; and, if he himself had felt the same motives, he would have followed the example of his hon. Friend, and defied all attacks for so doing. But he would beg to be allowed still to occupy ground which he did not feel untenable. He would beg to be allowed, with those who thought with him, to continue of the same mind, seeing that the same light had not broken in upon them which had broken in upon his hon. Friend." 697 "He (Sir R. Peel) should still retain his opinions as to what was the system which the country and the Legislature ought to enforce. He thought it ought to retain all the existing disabilities, as far as related to admitting Roman Catholics to the Legislature and to offices of State. "If his opinions were unpopular"—observe, the death of the Duke of York had then taken place—"he had now the opportunity of showing that he stood by them still, when the influence and authority that might have given them currency were gone, and when it was impossible that he could be suspected of adhering to them with any view to favour or personal aggrandizement." 698 "After I had been left in minorities on three different questions immediately connected with Ireland—the Catholic Question, the Elective Franchise, and the Payment of the Catholic Clergy—I waited on my noble Friend then at the head of the Government. I told him that I anxiously desired to be relieved from my situation. The reply of my noble Friend was, that my retirement would determine his own." 699 in extenso
 VISCOUNT CLEMENTS  complained of the whole system under which public prosecutions were carried on in Ireland. Gentlemen totally inefficient to discharge their duties were placed by the Crown in the offices, and assumed the title of Counsel for the Crown and Solicitors to the Crown.
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  happened to come
 751
 VISCOUNT SANDON  must confess that it was with great regret that he had seen the noble Lord the Member for Lynn (Lord G. Bentinck) involve himself in personal controversy. But the manner in which that controversy had been conducted was still more subject for regret. Some hasty words, such as fell from the noble Lord at first, were not much to be wondered at; but it was surprising that he, the head of a great country party, should think he raised the character of his party by picking matter for invective out of old newspapers. Could the noble Lord think that he would raise his own character, or that of the great party he represented, by an attempt to eke out and sustain an accusation, so gross and so degrading if it were true, against a Minister engaged in great political operations, by picking out from reports a piece here and a piece there, now a bit from the  Mirror of Parliament, Hansard, The Times, 748 The Times 749
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that on Thursday last, in consideration of the circumstances of the Session, and the time occupied in deliberation upon other measures, he had stated to the House it was his intention, in order that every opportunity should be given for that full discussion which seemed desired on the sugar duties, to propose this day that they be renewed for one month only. He had, at the same time, stated that he would take a course which would not interrupt the progress of that temporary Bill; and, on one hon. Gentleman taking an objection in some measure to his proposal, he had consented to the withdrawal of the objectionable notice, with respect to the reduction in duty, and had contented himself with a notice to renew the duties for a limited period. This notice had been given on Thursday, with a view that if any hon. Gentleman had any other notice to give on the subject, the House might be fully informed of any such intention. It was not, however, until late yesterday evening, at 7 o'clock—that he had received an intimation from the noble Lord the Member for
 812 "That the House was of opinion that the introduction of a Sugar Duties Bill for the short period of one month was calculated injuriously to affect the commercial interests of the country, and that it was the duty of Her Majesty's Ministers to have brought it forward at the usual period, and in sufficient time to pass through both Houses of Parliament before the expiration of those duties." 813
 MR. JAMES  said, it was most desirable that the question of the sugar duties should be placed on a permanent footing, for the different Colonies had suffered greatly from uncertainty, and from having their interests affected, year by year, by the casualties of legislative enactments, or, as he might call it, the lottery of legislation. They had been the bone of contention in party politics, and he hoped this state of things would be put an end to. Under a general system of free trade, our West India connexions could not expect to be eventually an exception to the rule; but considering the alteration which had been made in their affairs by the abolition of slavery, for which they had received only an inadequate remuneration, he thought exemption ought to be made in their favour till the disabilities under which they laboured should be removed.
 MR. BERNAL  complained of the injury to trade occasioned by this delay, and the extreme uncertainty as to when the subject would come under discussion. It would not be brought before a Committee of Ways and Means before Friday next, and the Bill could certainly not be passed before the 5th of July.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  suggested that the wishes of the noble Lord might be accomplished as well at a later day as on the first proposition of the sugar duties in a Committee of Ways and Means. They might allow the House to go into a Committee of Ways and Means, and take the discussion at a future stage of the proceedings.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said that, whatever case the noble Lord might make out as to the censure of Ministers, the noble Lord could not reasonably object to a Motion continuing the sugar duties for the present. They might, he thought, now go into a Committee of Ways and Means, and proceed with the Motion at once, which would not take long. The full discussion of the question they might go into at a future time. If the present proposition were postponed till after the discussion on the Protection of Life Bill, there might be danger of not getting into it today; and, considering the notice that had been given, no one could say that he had been taken by surprise. It was unnecessary at that time for him to state his opinion with regard to the censure suggested by the noble Lord or with respect to the sugar duties; but he was very much of the same opinion with the hon. Member for Montrose: they had had two alterations in these duties proposed by Her Majesty's Government; they were about to have a third; and he thought the time was come when they ought to have a permanent arrangement.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was perfectly willing, if it was understood that there would be no opposition, to go into a Committee of Ways and Means to pass the preliminary vote. If the House were prepared to adopt the resolution without discussion under present circumstonces, the noble Lord might upon another day enter upon the discussion of which he had given notice.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  would take the vote after the discussion on the adjourned debate. ["No, no:" "Move, move."] Well, then, he would move the Order of the Day on the Committee of Ways and Means.
 The EARL of LINCOLN  moved the Order of the Day for the resumption of this debate.
 MR. V. STUART  did not rise to deny the existence of crime to a very fearful extent in Ireland. He admitted the existence of crime, and the necessity of punishing the criminals; but he would not be carried away by what was nothing more than a panic, and heedlessly vote for a measure, the effect of which would and must be to increase the evils which it was intended to put down. The policy of the present Government, as of too many other Governments, had been to bring the common law into disrepute, to teach the people to rely for aid and protection on violent remedies. The object should be to inculcate a feeling in favour of the ordinary law, where it was not to be found; and where such a feeling did operate, to leave the people to themselves. It was not to be wondered at that
 834
 LORD G. BENTINCK  thought he had made himself fully understood when he had stated that he would not be a party to risking the public revenue. He had thought the suggestion he had thrown out might have been adopted by all parties; but if it were not, it was not the intention of himself, or of his Friend the hon. Member for Westmoreland, to interpose the Motion of which he had given notice on any stage of the Sugar Duties Bill; he would not be the cause of any delay, but he would take a future opportunity of proposing a direct vote of the character to which he had referred.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  was quite ready to assure the right hon. Gentleman that neither he, nor any of the Friends with whom he acted, had the least wish to see the sugar duties expire on the 5th of July; and the Chancellor of the Exchequer was quite right when he took for granted that the purpose of the resolution, of which a draught had just been read to the House, was to pronounce a censure upon the Queen's Government. The intention and wish was to censure them for leaving to so late a period of the Session the proposed Motion respecting the sugar duties. In his opinion they were greatly to blame for thus putting to hazard three or four millions of the public revenue. The sugar duties appeared to him to be a matter of very great importance; and he certainly should not interpose any obstacle whatever to the continuance of those duties; and he believed that he could answer for his Friends around him that they were quite ready to support any renewal Bill which yielded the existing protection, or to take the duties as they now stood, unaccompanied by the modifications which four or five months ago the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government had shadowed forth to the House. If the responsible advisers of the Crown thought proper to propose a measure for one year, the course which he should take would be wholly different. They would then have his cordial support, and he doubted not the support also of the Friends by whom he was surrounded, for they, true to the principles which they put forth in 1841, when they turned out the Whig Government, were prepared to protect the produce
 814 l. l., 815 l.
 LORD J. MANNERS  said: I wish, Sir, it were in my power to dissipate one tithe of the fears and suspicions which so oppress the hon. and learned Member for Bath, or to clear up one tithe of the mysterious and contradictory circumstances of
 840 l.; 841 842 843 844
 MR. CALEB POWELL  never heard a speech which showed more utter ignorance of the condition of Ireland and the Irish people than that which had just been delivered. The speech of the hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) the other evening, was, however, one which it was much more gratifying to turn to. It was, in his opinion, one of the ablest that he had ever heard in that House. The hon. Gentleman had dissected the returns which had been laid on the Table, and on which the present measure was supported. He had shown that out of 2,000 offences, there were no less than 805 under the head of "threatening notices," and of these only three had been followed by the commission of outrage. He was,
 828 829
 MR. C. BULLER  rose to put a question to the First Lord of the Treasury, of which he had given notice on Friday. Some time since the right hon. Baronet had been pleased to say that he would give ample notice of the intentions of Government with respect to New Zealand; and he would now perhaps fully acquit him (Mr. C. Buller) of exceeding the limits of his duty when he asked whether it was the intention of Ministers, in the present Session, to bring forward any measure for the government of New Zealand?
 MR. BANKES  denied that the farmers would disapprove of protection. As long as he and his friends acted upon the principles which they professed, the farmers would support them, even though the
 816
 MR. BARKLY  said, that the time had arrived when the sugar duties ought to be settled on a comprehensive footing, and he therefore hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would carry the Motion of which he had given notice.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  found himself, by the observations that had been made, called upon unexpectedly to take part in this discussion. He could, not, however, permit the observations made by the right hon. Gentleman to remain for a moment unanswered. He had been attacked—unjustly attacked by the right hon. Baronet. This was not the first time an unjust attack had come from the same quarter. Some years ago the same attack had been made; and he had had the opportunity of meeting and disposing of it, of refuting it. And now it was revived by the right hon. Baronet, who had at the same time thought proper to give him—what he thought he should never hear from him—a lesson on consistency! Undoubtedly consistency was a great public virtue; but then he did not think it, and this he wished to say to the right hon. Baronet, as a matter of utter indifference, whether a person might say and unsay the same thing, for never until now had they heard as if it were a matter of indifference, undertaking the defence of measures and then defending them; and never until now did they find a public man, and never before now a statesman saying in a single sentence that he disposed of all his former principles. Humble a Member of Parliament as he was, he could not find himself thus attacked for a want of consistency and not at least attempt to show that the attack was not deserved—not that he meant to say that in the twenty years which he had been in Parliament, one was
 866 867 868
 MR. RICH : I wish to ask the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government whether, when he made a recent appointment to the deanery of Windsor, considering the various Acts which within the last ten years have been passed for the repression of non-residence and pluralities amongst the clergy, and more especially considering the Act of the 3rd and 4th of Victoria, for carrying into effect the Report of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners respecting deans and deaneries, as well as heads of colleges and professors in our universities—I ask the right hon. Baronet whether he has considered those
 810
 MR. SEYMER  said, that the noble Lord the Member for the city of London, with the skill of a tactician, having supported the first reading of this Bill, concluded that the period had now arrived when, by mustering his own party, and calculating upon the support of hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House, he might succeed in placing Her Majesty's Ministers in a minority, and his own party upon their seats on the Treasury bench. He would therefore inquire what was the nature of the Bill on which this great party division was to take place? Had hon. Members opposite read the Bill? They argued as if all Ireland were to be placed by it for all time in a state of coercion. But the Bill was temporary, and its powers would expire in 1849, while its operation was local and partial, and under the control of the Lord Lieutenant. Neither did it follow because the Bill was to be enacted, that it was ever to be enforced against any county, parish, or person in Ireland. Such a Bill he was willing to concede to the present Ministry, because its government of Ireland seemed to be dictated by a just and generous spirit. That, at least, was the opinion entertained as to the Maynooth Bill, and which was so expressed by the hon. Member for Cork, and other hon. Members. He then had no fear that they would abuse the powers given to them by this Bill. He would adopt the language of the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, and say, that as long as parts of Ireland remained in their present state, he would give the powers confered under this Bill to any Government that obtained the confidence of Her Majesty, because if they abused those powers the people of England and Scotland would not allow a week to elapse without driving that oppressive Government from office. They would naturally conclude that what was the fate of Ireland this week, might be their own the next. He found hon. Members fond of talking of "justice to Ireland;" but he asked such persons had they no sense of the denial of justice to the families of those persons who were murdered in the open day, by the murderers receiving refuge in the districts in which they committed the crime, and whose claim to the hospitality of neighbours and strangers was that they were murderers? He had heard these things said in the presence of Irish Members, and
 824 825 826 odium theologicum, 827 Decipit exemplar vitiis imitabile;
 MR. ROEBUCK , in accordance with all the principles which had hitherto directed his political career, should give his vote against this Bill. All modes of legislation, all Bills and Acts of this description, were mischievous: first, because they were inefficacious; and, next, because if efficacious in some measure, they were much more efficacious for evil than good. And when he looked to the state of the people of Ireland, and also to the past history of that country, his feeling became stronger as to the injustice and folly of such a measure as the present. For, was this a novel experiment in
 835 836 837 "That this Bill was calculated to meet an exceeding great evil, in the suppression of disturbances which at present disfigured the whole face of society in that country. What he alluded to were the agrarian disturbances, which, although they generally originated in some acts of local oppression, spread with the force and rapidity of infection, bringing within their vortex many who would willingly keep themselves aloof if they could. The Bill introduced by the noble Lord dispensed with the old system of special commissions, than which nothing in his opinion could be more objectionable. Those Commissions inquired into cases of outrage, of the perpetration of which, unhappily, there could be no doubt. The only doubt was as to the perpetrator; and in detecting this, these tribunals were most defective. He verily believed that the special commissions retaliated by day the blood shed by night, and that in very many instances innocent parties suffered. The present Bill, if he had rightly understood it, directed the meeting of the magistrates at sessions to deal with actual cases of offences against the
 838 "It was impossible for His Majesty's Government to allow things to go on as at present in the north of Ireland, where there was not security either for life or property. [ Cheers. 839
 MR. HUME  thought it would be better to settle the sugar duties once for all; but for the present it would be better to pass the duties for one month, and leave the full discussion of them to a future day. If they were to have a differential duty, which he feared must be the case for some short time, he hoped that the Government would let the trade know what they had to expect as soon as possible.
 MR. M. GIBSON  said, he should prefer the duty of 19 s. d.
 MR. HALSEY  said: Sir, I will not trespass long upon the patience of the House; but I wish to state the reasons which induce me to oppose this measure. I gave my vote in support of the first reading, not because I acquiesced in the principle of the Bill, but because I felt that courtesy and justice demanded that we should not refuse to take into consideration a measure recommended to our deliberation in a Speech from the Throne, and handed down to us from another House of Parliament; but I did this, feeling that it remained open to us afterwards to form our
 832 833
 MR. W. R. COLLETT  said, he should give his decided support to the Bill. He would be no party to any political move. The state of Ireland had not changed since the first reading of this Bill, to which he had given his support. No doubt the introduction of the measure had had the effect of producing a temporary lull, but no real change had taken place in the disposition of those lawless individuals by whom the outrages were perpetrated. He was the owner of some slate quarries in the worst part of Tipperary, where nearly a thousand persons were either directly or indirectly employed; and he knew that robberies and outrages accompanied with violence were constantly perpetrated in that district by ruffians with their faces blackened. He only wished that he were at the head of a troop of cavalry or a body of police, that he might have the opportunity of hunting them down. It was in reference to such districts as this that the Lord Lieutenant ought to be invested with the powers conferred by this Bill; and if hon. Members who opposed the Bill knew as much of Ireland as he did, they would see the necessity which existed for such an enactment. It was idle to say that the Bill was directed against the Irish people—it was directed solely against these bands of lawless marauders; and he maintained that the Government were as much justified in resorting to it, as the Governments of Rome or Naples were justified in taking measures to capture the bands of robbers by which their territories were infested. He knew that the outrages in Ireland amounted to 365 in a year; in fact, that twenty-four hours never passed without the occurrence of some robbery or assassination in the district from the silver mines and the quarries down to the Shannon, and this had gone on for the last eight years. He thought that if the police had the power to take into custody suspicious looking characters, it would have a great effect in repressing the commission of these outrages. How such criminals could meet with any sympathy amongst their fellow countrymen surpassed his comprehension; but the fact was undoubted, that these murderers and assassins were shielded from the consequences of their crimes. Why, he knew the exact price of robbery and assassination in Tipperary. He knew that 2 l. s. l. s. 831
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  rose to oppose the Bill, though he was concerned to vote in opposition to the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government at a time when, in his judgment, he had been unjustly assailed and unnecessarily persecuted. He congratulated the right hon. Gentleman, however, on the triumphant manner in which he had disposed of these most undeserved attacks. He should, indeed, go into the same lobby with several hon. Gentlemen opposite; but he had not any feeling in common with them, who had upon every occasion supported measures which he deemed oppressive to Ireland, who had always opposed any enlargement of the rights of the Irish people, and who, failing to damage the measures of the Prime Minister, had tried to damage the man. The people of England, however, would protect a man unjustly attacked alike from open assaults and from treacherous assailants, who blamed the Government for the delay they had themselves interposed. He hoped and trusted that he should give a fair and not a factious opposition to this Bill. He must say that it was not fit for the purpose for which it was intended. He would, in the first place, point out its defects; and, secondly, state what measures he thought would be useful for the suppression of crime. He would ask hon. Members to consider well the real embarrassments which must arise from such regulations as these. The peasants were to be confined in their houses for an hour after sunset to sunrise; and it would be impossible for them to carry on their business as farmers without subjecting them to the chance of transportation imposed as the punishment for this offence. The Bill prevented the parties from going to the farm offices outside their dwellings, though the care of cattle required the peasant to be out at all hours of the night, and cows and sheep required constant attention. Again, if the peasant worked out for hire, how was it possible for him to attend to his duty, which required him to be out long after and before the hours mentioned
 819 820 821 l. l. s. 822 823
 SIR J. GRAHAM : I did not rise immediately after the hon. and learned Member for Bath, thinking that some hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House would probably have been disposed to take that opportunity of replying to him; and I can sincerely say that I gave up that opportunity of addressing the House with some reluctance, when I remembered that, since the noble Lord the Member for London had spoken upon the present question, no Member of Her Majesty's Government had addressed this House in defence or vindication of the measure now under discussion. It is therefore on this account, as well as for other reasons, which cannot fail very readily to suggest themselves to the minds of hon. Members, that I now rise, under some danger, I fear, of wearying the House; but I beg to say, that I
 845 846 847 848 849 850 "I have to state that on last night, about the hour of one o'clock, two men came to the house of Patrick Hill, of Bolay, demanded admittance, and asked for something to eat. Hill was in the act of getting some bread for them, when they broke in the door, and told him they wanted to speak with him outside. Hill requested they would allow him time to put on his smallclothes. They replied that they would not detain him many minutes. When they got him outside, they brought him a distance of about forty yards from his house, and there inflicted several bayonet wounds on his body; his wife (who remained in the house with a young child) heard his screams, and ran to his assistance. When she came to where her husband was, he was prostrate on the ground; one of the party knocked her down; after which the unfortunate man (Hill) received a stroke of a stone on the chest which almost immediately deprived him of life. I can furnish no further particulars at present. Deceased's wife is in a state of distraction, and no other person has come forward as yet." 851 852 "Currestona, March 13, 1846. "My dear Wray—Having dined at Mr. Harry Browne's, at Leabeg, last night, and having previously received several threatening notices to be on my guard, I ordered a patrol of three men—viz., Constable Baskaville, Sub-constable Geoghagan, and Sub-constable Gorman, to be at my house about nine o'clock, to watch the neighbourhood; and as Leabeg road was one upon which it was necessary to patrol, I requested they would call at Mr. Browne's for me, and escort me home; they did call as desired, about ten o'clock, and I accompanied them back towards my home. At about a quarter of a mile from my residence, and as we were proceeding quietly along, we heard the sound of footsteps, as if a party of men were running, and in about half a minute we came up with four men, armed with long guns and a piece of a scythe, whom we challenged; they immediately stopped, and we made them prisoners, each of us taking one and their arms. While endeavouring to secure them, they attempted to rescue themselves; two succeeded by knocking me down, and made off to their party that was on before them, which, to the best of our opinion and what we could learn from the neighbours, numbered at least 200 men, and in the meantime the other two escaped; Sub-constable Gorman having followed one of them by my orders, came up with the main body, who immediately cried out, 'Come on, boys? Will you see our men taken? They are only four' (we were four). We then retreated, the whole body following, and having attempted to make an entry into the house of a man named Luke Cowen, the party cried out to surround us, and to come in our rear, in which they succeeded, and whilst I and the police were endeavouring to force an entry, there were several shots fired at us, which happily did not take effect beyond breaking the windows and furniture of the house. Having made our entry, we placed a man at each door, and one at a window with bayonets fixed. We remained quiet, and in a few moments we thought we saw the end of the house on fire, which proved to be true; and lighted sods of turf being placed in each corner of the thatch of the house, we momentarily expected to be either burnt to death or suffocated, and at the same time knowing that if we left the house we should be shot as we came out. Most fortunately the man of the house opened the door and called the neighbours, and commenced putting out his furniture.
 853 854 855 minimum. l., l. 856 "At what seasons are the poor rates generally collected?—In May and August; in a very bad time of the year. I think the farmers shelter those people guilty of outrages through the country, under the fear that if the intimidation was not to continue, they would be ejected and turned out. I have not a doubt that that is the fact. I have remonstrated with the people, and spoken to them about harbouring them, and making free with bad characters; and that is what they told me. "Do you conceive that that was the real reason, or if it was from fear of them?—No; they are not in dread of them by any means; but they wish the system to go on, that they may be kept in their farms, and they open their doors and give them protection. If there were a hundred police after them, it would be of no use; the people will come upon the road and meet the men, and mix with them. The police will start after them; the four men will divide; they run after them; and, if they catch any one, it is the wrong man. They say, 'That is him!' or 'That is him!' and they get hold of the wrong man. That is quite common." 857 858 859 maximum 860 "I must express my regret that His Majesty's Ministers cannot reconcile it with their sense of duty to assent to the Motion of the hon. Gentleman at this time. The House will recollect, that in 1833 and 1834 the state of Ireland was such that the House felt itself bound to pass two laws of a very stringent and coercive character. I will not now discuss the propriety of those measures, or inquire as to the sufficiency of the grounds on which they were submitted to Parliament. In the year 1835, my noble Friend (Lord Melbourne) thought he was justified in proposing a measure of a less severe and stringent character, and which, by extending over a larger period of time, would avoid the objection of frequent renewal. His enactment, then, was for a period of five years; and Parliament having taken all the circumstances into consideration, I think it would be exceedingly inconvenient and improper, instead of waiting for the expiration of that period, to go into the question with a view to the cancelling the arrangements which were then made. I admit that my hon. Friend did express his dissent from the measure at the time it was introduced; but I think I may add, that it passed through both Houses of Parliament, his being almost the only dissentient voice. My hon. Friend has told us that the measure has been a dead letter. I am happy to say that the Government has not been called on to act upon it. Yet, though I trust I am warranted in thinking that there is nothing in the present state of Ireland of a very menacing or dangerous character, I cannot flatter myself that things have quite attained to such an extraordinary degree of improvement, that, considering what changes might possibly occur, the House would be disposed to dispense with the powers which the Act in question has created. Seeing, then, that no practical inconvenience has resulted from the law, and that it was passed with a perfect understanding as to the period of its duration, I hope that my hon. Friend will not press his Motion while there are other important practical measures awaiting the consideration of the House." 861 "The object of the Act in question is to prevent rather than to punish. It does not take away trial by jury; but it allows barristers of a certain standing to be called in to try the cases which may arise. I am ready to take my share of any odium that may attach to the continuance of this Act—it protects the people of Ireland against the poorer class of disturbers. I, for one, should be exceedingly sorry were His Majesty's Government to consent to its repeal." 862 863 864 maximum 865
 SIR J. GRAHAM  explained: He had been misunderstood as to what he had said with respect to persons voting for the first reading. All he had said was this, that those who voted for the first reading, and remained, in their conscience and judgment, satisfied of the necessity for this measure, were bound to vote for the second reading, and not to give a vote on grounds extraneous of its merits.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  requested his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer to avail himself of the encouragement afforded to him by both sides of the House, and not to delay the preliminary vote on the temporary renewal of these duties.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that the hon. Gentleman had asked him a question with by far the most complicated preamble, and, although it was contained in one sentence, by far the longest sentence he had ever heard. He did not think it at all desirable
 811
 SIR R. PEEL  replied, that since the subject had been mentioned formerly, his right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Colonies had given a good deal of consideration to the subject. His difficulty in giving a positive answer was now materially diminished by the contents of the recent accounts from New Zealand. On the last occasion he had not been able to give any pledge, because the British troops were then in chase of the enemy; but now there was good reason to hope that the authority of the British Crown had been established. Under these altered circumstances, he had no hesitation in stating his opinion that it would be highly desirable, in the course of the present Session, to bring forward a legislative measure for the government of New Zealand. As to the particular character of the measure, he abstained from giving any opinion. Whether it should be an enacting or an enabling measure, he would not say; but it was the intention of Ministers to introduce some legislative measure before the expiration of the Session.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that proceedings had already been instituted against the sureties of the defaulting party, and that the sum for which they had rendered themselves liable by bond had been recovered. As for the payment of the charge which might devolve upon the Colony, that was a question of colonial revenue, to be determined in New South Wales.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had postponed the reduction alluded to entirely from considerations of convenience, in respect to the peculiar circumstances in which he had found himself, and thinking it would be more advisable to have the general question discussed altogether at one time; he did not at all agree with the hon. Member for Montrose on the subject.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought it would be inexpedient to adopt the suggestions of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Montgomeryshire; but the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard appeared to him to be one, the object of which was exceedingly desirable, and he would accordingly have great pleasure in supporting it. The question of how far it was desirable that all the records should be brought together into one building, or distributed through various departments, was one which he trusted would engage the especial attention of the Committee, who, he hoped, would come to a satisfactory determination, and take care to make proper provision for the preservation of the documents, at the same time that they avoided involving the country in unnecessary expense. Especial care should be taken that no building should be erected that was not in all respects properly adapted for the purpose which was in view, for otherwise unnecessary expenditure to a very large amount would be the result.
 An HON. MEMBER  moved that the House be counted, and there being only thirty Members present,
 MR. B. ESCOTT  called the attention of the House to a subject on which there had been a misunderstanding in the House and in the country. The Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed to make a reduction of the duties on sugar to the amount of 3 s. d. s. d. 905 s. d., s. d.; s. d.
 MR. C. BULLER  observed that the work which the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Wynn) proposed to be done by the Committee was not only alien to its duties, but it was hardly a work to be left to a Committee of that House at all. It was a matter of literary judgment and knowledge, and required to be conducted with the greatest amount of literary and historical taste. He thought a selection should be made of those historical works, and that the public would be better satisfied if the matter were referred to some
 909
 MR. CHARLES BULLER , in bringing forward the Motion of which he had given notice, respecting the Record Office, said
 906 907
 MR. PROTHEROE  fully approved of the Motion of the hon. and learned Member, and hoped that the Government would perceive the necessity of setting about building a proper Record Office at once. It was little less that a reproach to the state of civilization in this country that so little attention should be paid to this matter. No nation that had a history, and valued it, would be careless or negligent of such documents. They were, in fact, its history. A building should be erected specially and exclusively for the reception of these documents, and they ought to be classified with the utmost care. Something ought, certainly, to be done in this matter, and that too without delay; for the present state of things was positively disgraceful. It might not perhaps be within the knowledge of every hon. Member who
 908
 MR. HUME  explained, that his motive in making the suggestion, in which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had acquiesced, was to avoid having a topic introduced which would necessarily open the door for a long discussion on the sugar duties, before the general question had been formally submitted to their consideration. It appeared to be the general desire that there should be but one debate on this question, and that when it arose all the Amendments which were on the book on the subject should be discussed together. With respect to the proposed reduction of 3 s. d.
 MR. HUME  inquired whether any further information had been received from New South Wales respecting the defalcation of Mr. Manning, the registrar of the court there, and whether the Government had taken any means to repay the creditors on the funds in that court?
 MR. SPOONER  rose to move, pursuant to the notice he had given, for leave to introduce a Bill for the suppression of trading in seduction and prostitution, and for the better protection of females. He believed the Secretary of State for the Home Department did not intend to make any objection to the introduction of the Bill; and as he dared say no hon. Member would object to the introduction of it, he thought it unnecessary to detain the House by entering into the question. He was sorry to understand from the hon. Member for Montrose that it was necessary to explain the measure to the House, and also to explain why it was that he had presumed to bring forward this Bill. The hon. Gentleman was proceeding with his statement, when
 MR. WILLIAMS WYNN  expressed his concurrence in the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard, and suggested that the additional duty should be assigned to the Committee of providing for the classifying the records and procuring the publication of such of them as possessed historical interest. This was a task which had been undertaken, in compliance with a vote of that House agreed to as far back (as well as he could recollect) as the year 1821 or 1822; but it was very much to be regretted that the project had not been completed, but remained still in abeyance. It was very little to the honour of the country that such an undertaking should not have been prosecuted to completion; and he trusted that the House would take measures to have the reproach removed. The Scottish Acts of Parliament had been carefully collated, and were published under the authority of the Commission, with the exception of the first volume, which was to contain the introduction; but the work had been suspended for the last ten or fifteen years, which could not but be a matter of regret. He trusted, however, that the publication would be soon resumed, and that the general task of supervising the publication of such of the records as possessed an historic interest would be committed to the charge of some persons of taste and erudition, and in all respects qualified for the task.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  felt bound to offer his opposition, and opposition too of a strenuous nature, to the second reading of the Bill. He was not aware that the sanction of the House of Commons had been given (as was asserted by the hon. and gallant Member) to any measure similar in principle to the present. On the contrary, the sanction of the Legislature had been given to an Act which was in its principle essentially dissimilar to the present Bill—he meant the Reform Act. Although the present Bill was a short one, it was an important one, and appeared to him to make a very formidable inroad on the Reform Act, which provided that no party could be registered unless he had occupied his house (value 10 l. 912 l. 913
 MR. WILLIAMS  objected as much as the hon. Member for Montrose to the payment of taxes being connected with the exercise of the franchise. He thought the franchise was limited enough already, and the principle of making it dependent on the payment of taxes was decidedly objectionable. He should have great pleasure in supporting the Bill of the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster, and he could not understand on what grounds hon. Members could object to its principle, which was simply that of extending the period of paying the taxes from three to six months.
 MR. BERNAL  supported the Bill. The extension of the period of credit would be very beneficial in this way: the tax collectors had very arduous duties to perform, and it often happened that persons whose solvency could not be doubted were not called upon within the three months. It was a very hard case that the only alternative which such persons had, was either to run about the town after the collector and pay him, or to have their names omitted from the register.
 VISCOUNT CLIVE  reminded the House that the objectionable part of the first clause had been removed by the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Watson), who had charge of the Bill; and as he had also promised to remove, in Committee, that portion of the clause having reference to the Roman Catholic hierarchy assuming the titles of archbishops and bishops of certain sees, those causes of objection had fallen to the ground;
 927
 MR. COWPER  said, if this were a question of toleration, he should vote in favour of the Bill, because the character of this country for toleration stood higher than that of any other in Europe. If the regular clergy having peculiar religious opinions confined themselves merely to the inculcation of religion and morality, he should feel no alarm; but he believed them to be a religious body aiming at political objects. England ought not to be the only country in Europe in which the Jesuits were acknowledged. He did not say this as a Protestant; but by almost the whole Roman Catholic world the Jesuits were held to be an intriguing political body, inculcating bad morality. This had been officially declared by almost every country in Europe. The Jesuits had been the objects of thirty-nine edicts; they had been banished from France, Spain, Naples, Bohemia, and from several Italian States; and they had been censured and suppressed by the Pope himself. The opinion of other Governments was, that they were a dangerous body, having dangerous objects, and attempting to attain these objects in a dangerous manner. They were so mysterious a body that it was difficult to know what was the truth respecting them; but when Roman Catholic States, which ought to know more about the Jesuits than that House could pretend do, charged them with corrupting the youth of the country committed to their charge, the House might very well take Roman Catholic Governments as their guide. There were other religious orders against whom these accusations were not made, and who spent their lives in doing good. He wanted to see a distinction drawn between the Jesuits and the other orders that might obtain the sanction of the Government. He should vote with the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, in the belief that provisions had yet to be
 929
 LORD SEYMOUR  thought that too much stress had been laid upon the flimsy security which would be afforded to the Protestant Establishment by the continuance of those paltry penalties upon Roman Catholics. He trusted that his faith was grounded upon a more secure foundation, and sustained by some better security. As to the argument which had been so strongly urged against the admission of the Jesuits to public toleration, he could not see the object of restraining and compelling them to privacy. The right hon. Baronet had admitted that there was no possibility of preventing their living in the country at present; and if they could come and live in it, without the knowledge or consent of the authorities, of what use was it to keep up the semblance of prevention, and to preserve those odious clauses on the Statute-book?
 LORD J. MANNERS  trusted the House would allow him to make a few observations upon the present subject. He would first direct their attention to the concluding portion of the speech of the hon. Member for Newcastle-under-Lyme. That hon. Gentleman, in his anxiety to defend every interest of the Anglican Church, told the House that this Bill was in violation of its rights, and likely to deprive that Church of its proper authority. Now, he must be permitted to differ from the hon. Gentleman. The hon. Member (Mr. Colquhoun) seemed to think that unless they prevented Roman Catholic ecclesiastics appearing in their dresses, they would endanger the safety of the Anglican Church. But he would refer to one who was a great maintainer of the English Church, Archbishop Laud. There were Jesuits in the kingdom in that day; but instead of pains and penalties, Archbishop Laud did not hesitate to meet them in argument, even in the presence of the King; and the result of those arguments had come down to us with as entire a vindication of the English Church as our English literature possessed. The right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Graham), in arguing his case, had said that the penalty it was proposed to repeal, was of immense importance to the English Church. Now, he would put this argument to a practical test. Unless he was much mistaken, during the existence of the present Government, an application was made from certain people in Dublin, or some other part of Ireland, calling upon the Ministry to put this clause in the Roman Catholic Bill in force against Archbishop M'Hale. They distinctly refused, however, to put it in operation. He
 934
 MR. B. ESCOTT  begged to explain. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Newcastle-under-Lyme had entirely misrepresented his words. What he had said, he maintained—that penalties of 100 l.
 Mr. B. ESCOTT  considered that the entire question was, should these penalties, or should they not, he allowed to continue on their Statutes? He certainly thought it a most absurd thing to say, that they were not to be put in force, but they should be continued as the law of the land. It was said, that the abolition of these penalties would weaken the securities of the Established Church; but surely such an argumont could not be upheld at this time of day. And if these pains and penalties were not useful in strengthening the Protestant Church, what on earth were they useful for, and why should they be suffered to disgrace the Statute-book? He knew that there was a class which conscientiously maintained these restrictions—with these men it was useless to argue—but their number was comparatively small, and the great mass of public opinion in this country was in favour of their removal. The time was ripe for that which the Legislature was about to effect, and he hoped before long these last remnants of intolerance would be quite swept away.
 MR. ESCOTT  supported the Bill. He thought the present system afforded great opportunity for the exercise of bribery, and he objected to it accordingly. He hoped the House would not object to going into Committee on the Bill.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the opponents of this Bill were most unjustly accused of intolerance towards the Roman Catholics generally, because they opposed the farther legalization of the order of the Jesuits. He did not oppose the removal of such antiquated statutes as were no longer applicable; but he did oppose the removal of those clauses of the Bill of 1829, restricting the institution of the Jesuits in this country; for all history, aye, that of the present day, proved them a most dangerous society. But the advocates of the Jesuits urged, that the order had divested itself of its  quondam 935
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, this was a very late period of the Session for entering into any discussion as to alterations in the Reform Bill. He could not consent to any such alteration just now, and he should therefore be compelled once more to go into the same lobby with Her Majesty's Ministers. He didn't think the Bill at all necessary. It tended to increase the borough voters. He considered that a 10 l. l.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the question, in the form which it had assumed, was tantamount to whether or not they should proceed with the Bill at all; and whether or not the matter was one which deserved consideration at the present time. He thought that all parties seomed to admit the affirmative of the latter question. Gentlemen at his side of the House affirmed it boldly; and hon. Members at the other appeared to admit it likewise. The hon. Member for Newcastle-under-Lyme admitted that the present state of the law as regarded the religious orders of Roman Catholics was most unsatisfactory—that there was a law upon the Statute-book which was daily violated, and the provisions of which no Government would dare to put in execution. On the other hand, it was urged that those laws were framed in a spirit quite inconsistent with the tolerant principle of the present time. He felt sure that such was the extent of that tolerant principle, that if, for example, a distinguished foreign Jesuit or other distinguished person, a member of a religious order, were to come over to England in ignorance of the law, and that law being put in force, were banished from the country, the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford would be the very first person to call for its repeal. The whole question undoubtedly deserved mature consideration. It should be considered carefully and calmly. He denied that odious and persecuting enactments had any thing to do with the support of the Church of England: one hon. Member would not persecute any man for his religious opinions; but he had one little exception—he only begged to be allowed to persecute the Jesuits. Let him only persecute the Jesuits, and he would tolerate everybody else. That outcry against the Jesuits was all a delusion.
 933
 MR. COLQUHOUN  said, that his hon. Friend at the opposite side of the House had alleged that the law, as relating to religious orders in these countries, was not in a satisfactory condition; but what was the account given him (Mr. Colquhoun) by a gentleman who wrote to him from Dublin
 930 931
 MR. HENLEY  opposed the Bill. He thought that no benefit at all would result to the poorer classes by extending the period of credit. On the contrary, it would only tend to embarrass them, and to get them into difficulties.
 MR. HUME  expressed a hope that the House would affirm the principle of the Bill introduced by the hon. and gallant Member, and permit it to go into Committee, in order that the alterations of detail that might be deemed essential might be inserted. He for one went further than many in that House, and objected altogether to the payment of taxes as the ground upon which a party should claim the right to exercise the franchise. But on this he need not now enter. The whole question in the Bill was whether they would enlarge the time for the payment of the taxes from three to six months, and that did not appear to him an unreasonable demand. He hoped, therefore, that the House would assent to the second reading.
 MR. P. HOWARD  thought that the proposed Bill would tend materially to complicate the present law. It was the duty of householders to assist their poorer brethren by the prompt payment of the poor rates, and he considered that they might fairly hold out the Parliamentary franchise as a reward for their punctual payment.
 MR. FITZGERALD  deprecated the production of acts or words of isolated individuals, either bishops or clergymen, as proofs of general religious belief. If such were to be done he could give instances in abundance of improper conduct on the part of clergymen of the Established Church. He would mention one, of a clergyman who from his pulpit in a country church told his congregation, who, by the way, were chiefly persons of the higher classes, that their salvation would not be safe unless they compelled their Roman Catholie servants to conform to the Protestant faith. And so much did the address disgust his congregation, that a relative of his (Mr. Fitzgerald), who was a colonel in the army, and several other gentlemen connected with the army, who happened to have been quartered in the neighbourhood at the time, rose and retired from the church. Yet so far were the clergyman's superiors from censuring his conduct, that he was shortly afterwards made a rector. He had no objection to name the individual. He was
 928
 MR. WALPOLE  was understood to say that the tendency of the Bill would be to change the principles of borough voting.
 MR. ESTCOURT  said, that the clauses which had been introduced into the Roman Catholic Relief Bill for the regulation of the religious orders of Roman Catholics, had formed part of the compact entered into at the time of the passing of that measure. The Catholics had agreed to accept them, and the Protestants looked upon them as safeguards to themselves. As such they had been introduced, and many Protestants had given their support and countenance to the Relief Bill in consequence of their insertion, who otherwise would certainly not have consented to its enactment. Yet, after the lapse of seventeen years, they were called upon to repeal them. He should support the Amendment.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, as he had the honour to represent the parish of St. Giles, he must say a word with respect to the last observation of the gallant Colonel opposite. Perhaps the gallant Colonel did did not know what the parish of St. Giles was. He would tell the gallant Colonel, then, that it included part of Lincoln's-inn Fields, the principal inns of court, and the chambers of many eminent lawyers. Did that make the gallant Colonel think any higher of it? Perhaps, then, the gallant Colonel had been so unfortunate as to be acquainted only with the lowest purlieus of St. Giles's. He had never had the honour of seeing a Lincoln ten-pounder; but if he might judge of them by their representative, he must say that from one end of Finsbury to the other, from St. Giles's to St. Luke's, he had never seen anything, whether as regarded mental accomplishments, elegance of diction, or personal adornment, the least like a Lincoln
 916 l. l.
 MR. REDINGTON  said, that hon. Gentleman had called upon the House to follow the example of Catholic States, in persecuting the Jesuits, and driving them forth from their territories; but he would suggest to them rather to follow the example of a Protestant State. He would suggest to them the example of Prussia, the king of which, Frederick the Great, had given an asylum to the Jesuits when they were driven forth by persecution from Catholic countries.
 MR. WYSE  begged also to be permitted to explain. What he had stated respecting the Christian Brothers he had stated from immediate and accurate personal knowledge and experience. He did not, like the hon. Member for Newcastle-under-Lyme,
 932
 MR. WYSE  thought, that if every one treated the question in so temperate and dispassionate a tone as the right hon. Baronet opposite, this was a most fitting period for its discussion; and for his part he had scarcely a doubt that there was little difference between the manner in which the right hon. Baronet had spoken on the subject, and that which would be adopted out of doors. Indeed, he had no doubt that the minds of a large portion of the public were made up as to the propriety of repealing those provisions which had been so frequently alluded to. In this country the subject of the descent of the bishoprics had been a subject of much controversy, and Catholic bishops had been appointed bishops  in partibus infidelium; 926
 MR. WATSON  said, he had no objection to test the Bill by another division. It had already been tested three times, and he was rather desirous to see its principle again tested. He maintained that the Bill was called for, inasmuch as the provisions which it was intended to repeal, were provisions which ought not to be
 919
 MR. WATSON  briefly replied.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  moved the Second Reading of the Parliamentary Electors and Freemen Bill, and stated that the principle affirmed in the first clause had, on a former occasion, received the sanction of the House. One of the clauses of the Reform Bill required the payment, before the 20th day of July, of all rates and assessed taxes due on the
 910 911
 SIR G. GREY  agreed with the hon. Member for Winchester, that there was no question of principle involved in this Bill, but that it was merely a question of degree. It professed to meet a practical evil, which no doubt existed, for it could not be denied that many persons were not placed upon the register because they had not paid their intermediate rates, but of whose solvency there could be no doubt, and who had not been called upon to pay up perhaps on this very account, that the collector knew them to be responsible persons. Others, again, might be absent from town, and, being known to be absent, might not be called upon, so that the consequence was, that they also would be omitted from the register. The question was, whether or not they were to affirm that there never
 915
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that if any alteration in the details of this Bill could remove his objections to it he would not oppose the second reading, but at once assent to the House going into Committee on it; but his great objection to the measure was one of principle, and under these circumstances he could not support the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster. He objected to any enlargement of the time fixed by the rating clauses of the Reform Bill with reference to the credit to be given for the payment of rates and taxes. He did not mean to contend that the clauses in question afforded an infallible test of the intelligence and independence of voters; but they afforded the best test that under all circumstances
 914 l., l.
 SIR J. GRAHAM : Sir, I, in common with the hon. and learned Gentleman, have laboured under a misapprehension as to the course which would be taken by the hon. Member for the University of Oxford. I had understood that before the Speaker left the Chair, the hon. Member would have
 920 921 in pontificalibus 922 923 924 925
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said it was very true that the Bill was so altered from what it was when he had first urged his objections against it, that its parent could hardly recognise his own child. Bad, however, as it originally was, and mutilated as it now was, it still retained sufficient substance to justify him in continuing his opposition to it. The very first clause of it recited the expediency of repealing almost all those provisions which in the Roman Catholic
 918
 MR. STAFFORD O'BRIEN  would make a few observations upon the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department. The right hon. Baronet had stated, and stated fairly, that those hon. Members who were opposed to the Coercion Bill need not stay away or vote in favour of the Bill out of gratitude to the Ministry for the free-trade measures it had brought in. Nothing could be more reasonable or fair than such a position. It was stated by hon. Gentlemen on the other side, as a broad rule, that whatever might be the state of society or the necessity for some protection to life, the only means of meeting it would be by remedial measures, and not by any infringement on the constitutional laws of the country. It had been alleged that there were hon. Members on his own side of the House who had always voted for coercion. Now, he had yet to learn that any hon. Member would stand up in that House and express his determination to vote for the present measure, because he had always voted in favour of coercive measures for Ireland, totally irrespective of the condition of the people, and of the credit of the Ministers who brought it in, and their claims upon the confidence of the country. He maintained that the Bill was pre-eminently a question of confidence in the Ministry, as it invested them with extraordinary powers to be used at their discretion. To take an illustration from events familiar to them all: if the Government, instead of having come down with measures of free trade as they had done at the beginning of the Session, had come down to ask for discretionary powers as to the opening of the ports, it must be clear that in so doing they would have asked for larger powers and more confidence than in proposing the enactments they had submitted to the House. He could draw no difference in the questions of confidence in the measures of the Government relating to the quantity of food, and in that which proposed restrictions upon the liberties of the Irish people. As they said they were not prepared to invest the Government with the powers they asked for in the one case, neither were they prepared to
 967 'Quæ luctantem animam nexosque resolverit artus." 968 969 970 971 972
 LORD CLAUDE HAMILTON,  as an Irish Member, confessed it gave him great pain to vote in favour of the measure before the House; still, the necessity of the case demanded that in favour of it he should record his vote. Had he in the whole course of the lengthened discussion which had taken place, heard any argument to convince him that he should adopt a different line of conduct, he would have gladly done so; but the statement made by the Government, and the documents which had been laid before the House, were quite sufficient to show that the state of Ireland demanded a measure which would repress crime, which would put a stop to murder and outrage. It had been affirmed that the employment of a large military power, and the patroling of the police, would have the desired effect. He thought otherwise; and he also thought that such a course, such a military display, would be even more unconstitutional than the Bill which had been introduced by Her Majesty's Government. It had been said, that remedial measures should have been first tried; but on that point he could safely say, that the present Administration had done a great deal in the introduction of measures which were calculated greatly to benefit that people. It might be considered unconstitutional, and it was so stated, to allow people out of their houses in proclaimed districts from sunset to sunrise; but was not such a restriction absolutely necessary for the protection of the lives and properties of the peaceable and the Indus-
 979 980
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  (who was inaudible during the greater portion of his speech) said he would appeal to the House, if he could show that many portions of the population of Ireland, the peaceable, the loyal, and the well-disposed, were destitute of that protection to which the subject was entitled, to record their decision in favour of this Bill. Was the law, as it now stood, adequate to redress crimes of the peculiar character of those which now unhappily disturbed the peace of Ireland? The history of the measures taken in former years for the purpose of repressing crime, fully showed the necessity of having recourse to the present Bill. In 1833 crimes of an agrarian character were very prevalent, and the peaceable part of the population throughout the country called loudly for protection. A Bill was then passed by the Legislature of a more rigorous character than the present, and powers almost unbounded were committed to the Government. Crime at that time prevailed to a fearful and alarming extent throughout the greater part of Ireland, to such an extent as to show that the existing law was utterly inadequate to check it. The effect produced by the passing of the new Act was immediate; and though it existed for only sixteen months all crimes of
 1015 1016 1017 1018
 The MARQUESS of CHANDOS,  amidst cries of "Divide," stated his intention of recording his vote in favour of the measure. Whether he did or did not vote with a portion of that party sitting on the same side of the House with himself, he should be sorry that it should be thought he concurred in the language which had been directed by that party towards the Government, and particularly towards the right hon. Baronet at the head of it. With regard to the reasons on which he had supported the measure, he might offer ample grounds to the House why he should do so. He had heard the statements of the right hon. Baronet, upon the introduction of the Bill, and he had found those statements borne out by the large amount of crime committed in Ireland. No doubt existed in his mind that the existing law was inadequate for the protection of life and property in the sister kingdom. Could it be otherwise, when he found a thousand offences committed—a thousand offences not inclusive either of murder or homicide. Indeed, the very arguments adduced on the other side of the House had convinced him that a new measure was imperative. He had heard that night that the present law was systematically violated, and yet those who admitted this fact affected to say that no new law was necessary. A noble Lord on the other side of the House had asked for the rejection of the Bill on the ground that two-thirds of the people of Ireland were opposed to it. He should be willing, of course, to yield to this opinion were it founded upon a proper basis; but it was too shallow to be followed, and it ought not to weigh with any man who had the faculty of judging between necessity and non-necessity. But he had been told that if he voted against the Bill, he should be voting against the present Government, which, it was also said by some, was to be desired. Was it supposed, then, that the Government would abuse the powers placed in their hands? He thought not. Had they shown any inclination to act in
 1019
 The EARL of LINCOLN  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to regulate the valuation of rateable property in Ireland. It would be within the recollection of the House that last year a Bill had been introduced into the House to amend the system of valuing land in Ireland, but it was considered defective, and had been accordingly dropped. The present measure, he hoped, would obviate the evils which had proved fatal to the Bill of last year. He would propose that evening to lay the Bill on the Table without further comment, believing that he would best consult the convenience of the House to reserve details for a future occasion. It was his intention to propose the second reading on a distant day, in order to give time for due consideration.
 COLONEL D. DAMER,  Comptroller of the Household, appeared at the bar, and announced that Her Majesty had received the Address of the House of the 25th of May, and had returned the following answer:—
 "I have received with satisfaction your loyal and dutiful Address. "I thank you for this proof of your attachment to Me and to My Family."
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  defended the noble Lord the Member for Lynn from the charge of inconsistency with regard to this measure. He confessed the evidence of outrage committed with impunity was so strong when it had first been laid before them, that, believing some measure was required for the suppression of crime, he voted for the first reading. But he would ask any Member in this House whether this measure was not wholly inefficient and impracticable? Few of them, by the way, had the Bill in their hands: he did not believe that the noble Lord who lately spoke (the Marquess of Chandos) had ever read the Bill; he talked of protection to property, while the fact was, that there was not a word about property in the Bill. The most stringent clause in the Bill was one that was directed against the well-disposed; it shut them up in their houses at night, thus leaving a clear field for those who were bent on mischief. It put him in mind of a schoolmaster, who, when a boy was riotous in his room at night, gave him a black dose the next morning; but when he could not ascertain the offender amongst several boys in the same room, he proclaimed the district and dosed them all round. He confessed he had not much knowledge of Ireland; but he did not think that Coercion Bills formed the best mode of governing that or any other country. With regard to the question of confidence in the Government, which had been mooted, he must say that he had no confidence in Her Majesty's Ministers. He believed that if the right hon. Baronet remained in office, other measures of a dangerous tendency would be more likely to be carried than by the noble Lord opposite, as he thought that many Members would support the right hon. Baronet, who would vote against the same measures if brought forward by the noble Lord the Member for London. With respect to the right hon. Baronet, who in his own person represented the Government, he thought that he had committed an enormous mistake—that he had mistaken the character and genius of his countrymen. The right hon. Baronet endeavoured by stratagem and surprise to carry a measure of vital importance to the country. He thought that success would justify the means, but he was now undeceived; and he would tell the right hon. Baronet that his political reputation, as well as the confidence which the best and most independent men in the coun-
 1024
 MR. VESEY  concurred in the praise of the right hon. Baronet for his measures for the relief of Ireland. The present Bill he would consider under two heads, the necessity for it, and its expediency. He argued that it was necessary from this fact, that notwithstanding the time the Bill had been before the House, the prestige and influence which, being before the House, it might be supposed to have had, the season of the year, and the extensive employment of the people, life was still as insecure, and the law was as little respected as ever. The public officers were intimidated, and public prosecutions could with difficulty be proceeded with, from the unwillingness resulting from the fear of witnesses to come forward. He was ready to admit, and he believed no one could deny, that the greater proportion of the evils with which Ireland was afflicted were evils dependent alone upon the social system which was found to have existence there. Those evils had been acknowledged by the Government; and he rejoiced in the hope that the Bills which had recently been brought in would tend greatly to alleviate the sufferings of the poorer agriculturists in Ireland, and to give protection to the occupiers of land from all injustice and every oppression. To such diseases the appropriate remedy had been found: to the removing the insecurity to life there I must be measures of a totally different kind. Great crimes could not be suppressed by light measures; and he was convinced that the commission of the crime now sought to be prevented in Ireland would cease immediately upon their putting in force such a Bill as that now before the House. It had been said that these crimes were committed in almost every instance in the day, and that, therefore, this Bill, which applied only to precautions in the night time, would prove useless; but it was forgotten that, according to the testimony of police-officers and others familiar with the facts, in the disturbed districts, the conspiracies were all formed, the arrangements were all made, at dusk or in the night time. Many persons, it was well known, were compelled, against their will, to become parties in those nefarious associations; but this would no longer be the case if, by vigilance, they made it impossible that the meetings alluded to could be held. Why, asked many hon. Gentlemen, resort to an unconstitu-
 973 imperium in imperio,
 MR. ADDERLEY  observed, that this measure would afford some Members an opportunity of giving a party vote in retaliation. But it should afford no opportunity of this character if the House did not think it unsafe to entrust large powers in the hands of the Government. In the votes given it should be shown that all were interested by a due sense of the importance of the question as it stood, and that only.
 MR. C. BULLER  deprecated the tone of the speech which they had just heard. With all deference to the noble Lord, he adopted a somewhat childish mode of going into the moral state of the people, and into an inquiry into the extent of the moral condition of the country, to see why such crimes were committed, and which did not seem to be against public opinion. It was not to any moral obliquity in the people that they should look—not to something peculiar in their situation, but to legislation, to ascertain what were the causes of this state of things. He rose the other night to address the House, and he was sorry that he had not an opportunity of making an answer to some parts of the speech, and in some respects the sound speech, of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Bath. In the year 1833, when he had not been three years a Member of that House, and when he entered for the first time on his political life, he opposed Lord Grey's Government, and the party with whom he usually acted, on the question of the Coercion Bill. Experience since had shown him the wisdom, or rather the correctness, of the course he then pursued. He had hoped that his hon. and learned Friend and himself, when they pursued the same course with respect to that Bill, did so on the same ground; but his hon. Friend, at the end of his speech the other evening, left some doubt on his mind as to the way in which his hon. Friend would vote, for there was something like ambiguity in the terms that he made use of in his argument as to the policy of the course pursued with respect to this Coercion Bill. His hon. and learned Friend said, he was about to take a peculiar view of the question. He thought that his hon. and learned Friend in the course of his speech said, they should legislate for the good feelings and affections of the people of Ireland; but it seemed to him—and he said it with all respect to his hon. and learned—that he most pitiably narrowed the great question, when he
 981 982 983 984 post hoc ergo propter hoc. 985 986 The Times 987 988 989 990 991 The hon. Member was here interrupted by Messengers from the Lords returning with the Corn Bill, agreed to. 992
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the hon. Member for Dungarvon had alluded to the cloud which had fallen upon the prospects of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government; and he (Mr. Newdegate) could not help fearing that the darkness of that cloud had fallen upon the intellect of some hon. Members with whom he had had the honour of acting for some time past, and that it precluded their perception of the effect of the vote they were about to give in support of the present unconstitutional measure. He feared that the light which the right hon. Member for Dungarvon said tinged that cloud, had not reached the hon. Members to whom he alluded, when they impugned the motives of the hon. Members around him, who now opposed the measure; that light was derived from the anticipations the right hon. Member entertained that the right hon. Baronet would pursue a policy towards Ireland which was that very policy which many hon. Members feared, as tending to give a triumph to the Repealers. Was it not that the right hon. Member for Dungarvon hoped—and he was supported in that hope by the opinion of the hon. Member for Cork—that the right hon. Baronet would pursue such a line of policy, was it not this confident expectation that made him eulogize the
 1022
 MR. BANKES  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down
 993 994 995 996 997 998
 MR. HUME  had not anticipated that he should speak on this question. He had no doubt whatever that, ere this, the right hon. Baronet would have withdrawn the Bill. The right hon. Baronet must be convinced that it could never pass into law, and that every successive prolongation of the discussion had the effect of aggravating the evils and the mischief which the right hon. Baronet deprecated. He congratulated the House upon the new tone which was now taken towards Ireland. He could remember, at a former period, when a Coercion Bill was introduced, that out of a House of 550 Members, only 89 Members, Scotch and Irish together, could be found to vote against it. Opinion upon these matters was now altered, and altered for the better, and he very sincerely congratulated the House upon the fact. He saw, however, a subject for regret in what he might term the broken pledges of the right hon. Baronet. The right hon. Baronet had, a short time ago, distinctly stated that, as he had found coercion and oppression fail, it was his intention to make a trial of conciliation; yet now, from some unknown cause, the right hon. Baronet insisted upon the necessity of a Bill which no one could doubt was a Bill of coercion. He contended that it was unnecessary, and that, if necessary, it was useless. He would admit all that had been alleged as regarded the character of the outrages, the extent of the insecurity of life and property—all this he would admit; and yet he would deny that such a Bill as this could, by any possibility, restore tranquillity and security. In 1823, when plans similar to the present were proposed for the pacification of Ireland, he said then
 974 975 976 
 
 The four Counties where the average proportion of proportion of mud hovels as habitations is lowest — Down, Wexford, Kilkenny, and Monaghan. The four Counties where the average proportion of mud hovels as habitations is highest — Kerry, Mayo, Clare, and Cork. 
 Proportion per cent of families occupying habitations which are mud cabins having only one room 20 61 
 Proportion of deaths from epidemic disease to every 10,000 of the population 35·5 47·8 
 Average age of all who have died during 10 years ending June 6, 1841 33·4 26·8 
 Average age of all the living in 1841 24·11 23·5 
 Proportion of births to population 1 in 33·4 1 in 29·9 
 Increase per cent of the population since 1831 5·0 8·7 
 Per cent of the population 15 years and under 38·8 41·9 
 Above 50 years 11·6 9·5 
 Proportion per cent of male and female, married 43¼ 39 
 Population 17 years and upwards, unmarried 47¾ 52 
 Per cent of the population 5 years old and upwards who can neither read nor write 42·8 69·7
 MR. BORTHWICK,  amidst much uproar said, he would content himself with remarking that, as the division list to-morrow would show how each Member voted, all he should say was, that the vote he meant to give would be given exclusively on the merits of the Bill, and on no other consideration.
 MR. COBDEN  said: I am not going to argue the question; but I wish to say one or two words as to the spirit of the votes we are going to give. I shall find myself in the lobby to-night—and probably in a majority—with three classes of voters. The first class are those Gentlemen who with myself voted against the first reading, because they were opposed to the principles of legislation for Ireland which the measure involves; the next are those hon. Members on this side of the House who voted for the first reading; and the third, to my great surprise, are a large number of Gentlemen below the gangway who also voted for the first reading. Now, I don't intend to offer one word in the way of putting a construction upon the motives of hon. Gentlemen who are to vote differently upon this occasion; but as such a combination may seem rather odd, and may be looked upon by the country with some suspicion, I wish to clear myself at all events—and probably in doing so, I may also render some service to other hon. Members—by showing that the construction which may be put upon the vote about to be given by the noble Lord the Member for Lynn, at all events does not apply to us. The
 1025 1026 1027
 MR. SHEIL : Sir, necessity is sometimes the best plea of a good Government—of a bad Government it is very frequently the very worst pretence; and that it is in the present instance a pretence, and not an argument, I have risen for the purpose of proving; for it is my thorough persuasion that the criminalities of Ireland ought to be attributed to that moral distemper of which a Government utterly destitute of the confidence and support of the people, never fails to be productive. I shall have occasion, in following up this view of the question, to animadvert upon the policy pursued by the present Prime Minister in reference to Ireland. It has often been my misfortune to have thought it my duty to do so; but, in doing so, I have never forgotten that it is to the right hon. Gentleman himself that I am indebted for the privilege of pronouncing his condemnation to his face; and that, from this lofty level, where the Irish Catholic and the English Protestant are placed in an imperial parity together; and as, in his highest and most palmy state, when he stood at the head of that great Conservative party which it cost him so many years to construct, and which, in a few months, he has reduced to such utter dilapidation, I have always endeavoured to avoid, and I hope I have suc-
 1001 1002 1003 1004 1005 1006 "Lord Normanby was appointed Lord Lieutenant of Ireland; and, notwithstanding the abuse and attempts at ridicule which have been so unsparingly heaped upon his Administration, I believe that Ireland never saw one more fearless, honest, and useful. It may suit party purposes to accuse him of hunting after popularity, or of making undue concessions to O'Connell and the Catholics; but he has the undeniable fact to plead in reply to all charges and sneers, that Ireland never made more rapid improvement than during the four years of his vice-royalty. He went there determined to govern in a spirit of justice, impartiality, and firmness; and the confidence he inspired did more than any coercive measures had ever been able to effect towards reducing the country to a state of order and peace. For the first time the Irish Catholics began to feel that the Government really cared for their interests, and was disposed to make the welfare and prosperity of Ireland the principal object of its solicitude. Under his Administration the amount of crime largely decreased, prædial outrages became less frequent, the fierce feuds of the peasantry were discontinued, and the mass of the people grew more civilized and humane. Catholics and Protestants were employed without distinction of religion, and between 1835 and 1839 the repeal of the Union seemed to be almost entirely forgotten or discarded." "A very remarkable address was presented to Lord Normanby from the town of Mallow. 'We stand before you,' they said, 'in number amounting to above one hundred thousand—the greater part of us own ourselves to have belonged to that party who advocate the repeal of the Union. We thought the only remedy for Irish evils was a recurrence to a domestic Legislature; but the experience we have had of your Excellency's wise, just, and paternal Government has taught us otherwise, and we tender to your Excellency our solemn abjuration of the question of the repeal of the legislative Union, and of any other question calculated to produce an alienation of feeling between the inhabitants of Great Britain and Ireland.'" 1007 impromptu improvisatores 1008 animus 1009 Hansard 1010 "What were the circumstances which put an end to the riots? The circumstances which put an end to the riots were the superior administration of justice in regard to those affairs, and also the disposition which was created among the people, in consequence of a feeling to co-operate with the Government then in power, and not to embarrass it by continuing those disturbances." 1011 1012 Annual Register, 1013 merus Hibernicus 1014
 MR. SPOONER  said, as the hon. Member had made an appeal to him, he could assure him he felt no difficuity whatever in answering it. The hon. Gentleman thought he had placed him in a dilemma. He did not consider that he was placed in any such dilemma. He asked him whether he was prepared to vote in favour of a want of confidence against the Government, and afterwards to intrust the same Ministers with these unconstitutional powers? He did not rest his support of the present measure on the statements of Ministers. If his hon. Friend the Member for Dorsetshire appealed to the want of energy or zeal displayed by the Government, or their delay in carrying this measure, as his evidence of its non-necessity, he would appeal to the documents on the Table of the House as proofs that this measure was essentially necessary for the preservation of life and property in Ireland. His hon. Friend said that the Irish Members had declared this measure not to be necessary. But there were Irish Members on the Conservative side of the House who said that it was necessary, and who told them that the effect of refusing that measure would be most disastrous; that it would be an encouragement to crime; and that, in fact, they dreaded much the consequences of such a refusal. An hon. Member representing a place in Ireland had lately told him that the consternation felt amongst the well-disposed and orderly portion of the population of that country in the event of the rejection of that Bill could not be described. They believed it would afford a triumph to one party in Ireland, at the same time that it would strike another with dismay, and that the consequences would be such as they could not anticipate. The Irish Conservative Members who had supported them in their struggles for the protection of native industry, and who had a just claim to their consideration, were struck with amazement when they heard the noble Lord the Member for London announce his intention of voting against this measure. For his own part, he had given to the present measure his calm and deliberate consideration; he had seen the attention of Parliament called to it in the Speech from the Throne; he had seen it introduced into the House of Lords, and come down to them sanctioned
 999 1000
 CAPTAIN JONES,  amidst much uproar, defended the measure, as being similar to that which the Whigs passed, with the approbation of Mr. O'Connell, in 1835.
 MAJOR BERESFORD  said, that the noble Lord who had just addressed the House, had argued that the law in Ireland had been frequently violated, He had argued that the existing law was not sufficiently powerful to enforce its object; but the noble Lord had not proved the second part of the proposition, namely, that this Bill would be efficient to gain the object which he had in view. The hon. Member for Birmingham had argued in the same way; but he had left the argument where he began it, and had not proved that the Bill would be effective or advantageous in any respect. A far abler debater, however, than either the noble Lord or the Member for Birmingham, Her Majesty's Prime Minister, had argued much in the same way, in favour of affording protection for life and security for property in Ireland. He agreed in many of the excellent arguments used by the right hon. Baronet on the subject; but the right hon. Gentleman stopped short where he ought to have pushed forward his argument: he did not enter into any proof to show the Bill would be effective for the objects for which it had been brought forward. The right hon. Baronet had said, that one of the greatest difficulties they had to encounter in Ireland, was the utter inability to procure evidence to convict offenders. Would confining the population in certain districts to their houses at night, assist in procuring such evidence? The right hon. Baronet further had stated, that frequent murders were committed; but no trace or clue could be had of those who committed them. Would the chief feature of the Bill, the curfew clause, hunt out and bring to justice these flagrant offenders? If he believed that that Bill would put an end to assassination and outrage, and would bring the people of Ireland into calm obe-
 1020 1021
 VISCOUNT INGESTRE  thought that life and property were insecure in Ireland, and he had been inclined to support this measure as a remedy for the evil; but when he saw this measure sacrificed, and put behind another measure which was admitted to be of less importance, he felt that he could not conscientiously vote in its favour; and, therefore, he should abstain from voting at all. He was the more inclined to take that course, because rumours were rife that there were divisions in the Government itself with respect to certain measures of a fiscal nature; and he, therefore, did not think the Government was in that state to be entrusted with powers of such an unconstitutional character.
 VISCOUNT NEWPORT  said, that ever since his first perusal of this Bill his opinion had been that it was of an irritating and exasperating nature. He found that the Irish Members on the other side were quite unanimous in their opposition to it. They rightly considered it to be an attempt to govern Ireland on a wrong principle, and not at all calculated to allay and diminish the number of those present outrages which they deplored in common with himself, and they considered it to be an insult to the feelings of the Irish people. The Irish Members on the Government side of the House, he believed, were prepared to vote for the second reading of this Bill; but he thought it was more with a view of doing what the magistrates and their constituents thought would add strength to the laws and rigour to the enforcement and to the administration of justice, than from other motives. It was not that they thought any benefit was to be derived from the
 978
 MR. F. MAULE  said, that although he found he could not, with any prospect of advantage, attempt to proceed further with this Bill, he was happy to observe that its introduction had not been without good effect, for since the measure had been under the consideration of the House, two noble Lords—the Earl of Cawdor and another—had given sites for places of worship, and he hoped their example would be followed. He now moved that the Order of the Day for the Adjourned Debate
 1037
 SIR J. GRAHAM  expressed his satisfaction at the information communicated by the right hon. Gentleman, who, he thought, exercised a wise discretion in not pressing the Bill under the circumstances. He joined with the right hon. Gentleman in the hope that the example of the two noble Lords to whom he had referred would be imitated, and that the measure would be rendered unnecessary.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  intended to make two Motions: the first was, that Committees should sit, notwithstanding the adjournment of the House; and that all reports for Private Bills, fixed for Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday, should be postponed until Friday. He thought that the objection of the right hon. Gentleman was one of a very serious nature. He did not think that the delay from Tuesday to Friday, in the report of a Bill, could be of any serious consequence.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  thought that the adoption of the suggestion would be attended with inconvenience. It would hardly be possible to secure a full attendance for private business, and few would be present besides those in some way interested. The business, therefore, would not be conducted in a satisfactory manner. If this suggestion was adopted, he would recommend the Vice President of the Board of Trade to attend when the private business was being conducted, and use his influence and give his advice as to the proceedings.
 MR. HUME  was anxious as a humble individual not to let the conversation close without saying one or two words. He had been long opposed to the right hon. Baronet; but he must congratulate the country on the right hon. Baronet's having brought his great measure to a successful termination. He had brought this country, by removing restrictions from our commercial code, to a situation to which the whole world would anxiously aspire. He considered that the right hon. Gentleman had rendered such a service to his country as would redound for ever to the honour of his name. When he came into office he found the country engaged in war, and he was sure that no consolation would be greater to the right hon. Baronet than that when he left office, he left it at peace with all the world. He had also by his great measure afforded fair and ample scope for the employment of capital and industry, and for which he deserved as much or more credit than any predecessor in office. He was satisfied when this measure was properly carried out that it would confer the greatest benefits on the civilized world; he therefore regretted that at this moment circumstances should compel the right hon. Baronet to resign the helm of power; and he was sure that his retirement was the source of regret and a matter of sympathy with millions. No one ever left power carrying with him so much of the sympathy of the people. He would venture to say that those hon. Gentlemen who were now opposed to him on this great question, would before many years elapsed regret the course which they had taken, and would become coverts to the system which he advocated. He individually felt the greatest gratitude to the right hon. Baronet for the manner in which he had carried out this great measure.
 MR. GREENE  suggested that no opposed question should be brought forward. This would get over the difficulty.
 SIR G. CLERK  should feel it to be his duty to attend, but he trusted that he should have the assistance of the right hon. Gentleman and other Members opposite.
 SIR R. INGLIS  merely wished to make one observation with, reference to the adjournment, although many passages in the speech of the right hon. Baronet, and, above all, the peroration of it, might tempt him into observations from which, however, he would abstain. He wished to know whether an adjournment would not be attended with inconvenience to private business. To-morrow was a day to receive reports on Private Bills; he therefore would appeal to the Speaker whether they might not meet at twelve o'clock each day merely for private business.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that he had made the Motion for adjournment in compliance with the wish of the noble Lord; and in assenting to this he had suggested to the noble Lord that this adjournment might be attended with some inconvenience as far as regarded private business: he therefore had asked the noble Lord, whether he would object to the House meeting for private business, on the understanding that no public business snould be taken. Since that he had received a note from the noble Lord, in which the noble Lord stated that he had no objection to private business being proceeded with.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Mr. Speaker, I feel it to be my duty to avail myself of the earliest opportunity of notifying to this House, that in consequence of the position of Her Majesty's Government, and especially in consequence of the vote to which the House came on the night of Thursday last, refusing to give to Her Majesty's servants those powers which they deemed necessary for the repression of outrage and the protection of life in Ireland, they have felt it to be their duty to tender their resignation to a gracious Sovereign. The resolution to tender that resignation was unanimously agreed to by Her Majesty's servants, and adopted without hesita-
 1041 1042 1043 1044 1045 1046 per se 1047 1048 1049 1050 "From the point on the 49th parallel of north latitude, where the boundary laid down in existing
 1051 "From the point at which the 49th parallel of north latitude shall be found to intersect the great northern branch of the Columbia river, the navigation of the said branch shall be free and open to the Hudson's Bay Company, and to all British subjects trading with the same, to the point where the said branch meets the main stream of the Columbia, and thence down the said main stream to the ocean, with free access into and through the said river or rivers, it being understood that all the usual portages along the line thus described shall in like manner be free and open. In navigating the said river or rivers, British subjects, with their goods and produce, shall be treated on the same footing as citizens of the United States, it being, however, always understood that nothing in this article shall be coustrued as preventing, or intended to prevent, the Government of the United States from making any regulations respecting the navigation of the said river, or rivers, not inconsistent with the present Treaty."
 SIR R. PEEL  said: I have received a communication from the noble Lord whose services have been required by Her Majesty; and I trust, in conformity with his wish, the House will unanimously support the Motion I shall now make, namely, that the House at its rising do adjourn till Friday next.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I do not rise, Sir, for the purpose of opposing the recommendation of the right hon. Baronet, that this House, at its rising, should adjourn to Friday next; neither do I at all differ from him in thinking that upon the present important occasion we should abstain from entering upon any topics likely to produce discussion. I entirely concur with him in thinking that we should, just at this moment, do nothing to renew party difficulties or revive past differences. Although that was the language held by the light hon. Baronet himself at the commencement of his speech, yet there can be no doubt that in the subsequent part of his observations, led away excusably by his own feelings, he did advert to topics which might have led some hon. Members who sit at this side of the House into a discussion of a different character from that which ought to characterize the present proceedings. I do wish, Sir, to state to the House, that if I abstain from following the right hon. Baronet through any of those topics which he has touched upon connected with his five years' Administration, I beg it to be understood that I am not thereby abandoning or retracting any of the opinions which I may have expressed, and which others may have expressed in this House on many occasions, with respect to the policy of the Government, and that our silence may not be construed into an acquiescence in that—I may say—general
 1056 1057 1058
 MR. V. SMITH  suggested to the right hon. Baronet whether, instead of withdrawing the Highways Bill, he could not proceed with parts of the Bill which were not objected to, and which might pass with the consent of the House. It was a measure very much wanted. There was one provision making it compulsory on districts instead of parishes, which was a valuable arrangement, as well as the putting highway rates under a more effectual audit. The right hon. Baronet had earned so much honour by this measure, that he hoped he would not cast off a Bill which was so beneficial, and parts of which he had an opportunity of passing without any difficulty whatever.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : After what has passed, it may be convenient that I should state to the House the intentions of Her Majesty's Government with regard to the Poor Removal Bill, which may tend, in some degree, to remove the suspicions of
 1070 1071
 MR. WILLIAMS  wished to make a few observations before the Speaker left the chair. The Estimates about to be moved showed a large increase. Now, as our differences with America were happily settled, the necessity for a large naval and
 1098 l. l., l.; l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the hon. Member for Coventry had called the attention of the House to the naval and military expenditure, and to the amount of the expenses of the collection of the revenue. As to the first observation of the hon. Gentleman that the whole increase of expenditure in those branches of public service was to be attributed to the apprehensions
 1100 1101
 LORD J. RUSSELL  replied, that he did not propose that the Estimates should be framed by any Committee, but suggested that it was worthy of consideration whether or not the Estimates might not be submitted to a Committee of Inquiry. His hon. Friend must be aware that there were frequently Finance Committees appointed by the House, and that if he (Lord J. Russell) were to propose such a Committee, he should not be adopting anything new in principle. He should not consider it advisable to continue such a course from year to year; but thought it might be advantageous to appoint a Committee at the end of nine or ten years.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  thought it unnecessary to discuss now the voluntary principle, which he understood to mean that the State was not to pay persons for teaching a particular kind of religion. This vote was asked for to pay a secretary and clerks employed on the business of a Commission, whose office it was to distribute among the parochial clergy, when their stipends were low, certain funds saved from various prebends and sinecure offices; the persons whose salaries were thus to be provided, were no more engaged in teaching, or attempting to teach religion, than if they were clerks at the Admiralty or in the War-office.
 SIR R. FERGUSON  would not resist the vote, but he thought it highly desirable that an inquiry should be instituted into the expense of working the Commission in Ireland; and most ardently did he hope that the matter would engage the serious consideration of Her Majesty's Government. The expense amounted, as he was informed? to between 13,000 l. l.
 MR. WILLIAMS  agreed with the hon. Member for Montrose, and thought that great responsibility rested on the Government with respect to this matter. It was undeniable that mismanagement and maladministration of the Poor Laws existed to a scandalous extent, and that the present system of things could not be endured any longer. Such evidence had been brought before the Committees as showed the total incompetence of those who were at the head of the Commission, and their total inadequacy to discharge their duty. The country, he was convinced, would not much longer tolerate the present system, and the sooner the Government looked to it the better.
 SIR R. FERGUSON  wished to know whether it had been the intention of the late Government that the plan of increased allowances to schoolmasters and schoolmistresses in workhouses, auditors, and medical officers should be extended to Ireland, and whether they had intended to relieve the county rate in Ireland from the expenses of paying medical officers for the poorhouses?
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  observed that the subject was one to which his noble Friend the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland would not fail to direct his serious attention. He expected to have some account from his noble Friend ere long on the question, together with an exposition of his (the Lord Lieutenant's) views as to what ought to be done; and if it should be deemed advisable to come down to Parliament to seek for new powers in reference to the subject, he (Lord John Russell) would be prepared to do so.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was now too late in the Session to give to the general question of the Poor Laws as  minute
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER (Mr. C. Wood) , hoped his noble Friend would withdraw the Motion. All Captain Warner asked for was a fair opportunity of proving the value of the invention before persons appointed by the Government, and in whom the Government had confidence; and the Government were perfectly prepared to appoint impartial officers, to whom there could be no objection, to investigate the merits of the inventions, and a thorough consideration would be given to whatever report might be made by those officers. Captain Warner had offered objections to the last Commission on account of some individual Member of it; but the Government would endeavour to avoid any such difficulty.
 MR. E. DENISON  said, that one half of the Commissioners never attended the Board at all; and that those who did at-
 1102
 MR. CARDWELL  thought it should be borne in mind, when hon. Gentlemen were talking of the increase of expenditure, that within the last eighteen months a reduction of the expenses of collection had been effected in the Excise alone to the extent of 52,000 l.,
 DR. BOWRING  called the attention of the House to a most important subject, which would, as he believed, prove a great means of relieving the public from a considerable burden, and render a great public service. The noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government had been a member of a Commission to inquire into the public accounts, which had issued a report wherein certain principles had been laid down for the public accounts, the chief of which had been that the whole of the gross revenue should be paid into the Exchequer, and that all sums should be paid out of it in like manner. At present, however, there was no less than from 6,700,000 l. l.
 DR. BOWRING  asked, why Dissenters were to pay in this instance for the better distribution of money in which they had no interest among a particular body?
 MR. J. PARKER  could not see any sort of reason for refusing this vote. When the allegations that had been made, with the proofs of them, were regularly before the House, then they would be in a condition to go into them; but without the proofs before them, to take the step proposed by the hon. Gentleman would be quite unusual, and might lead to very considerable difficulties.
 MR. J. STUART  thought the hon. Member for Finsbury ought first to complain of the wealth of the Church of Scotland, which was greater than that of the Church of England, in proportion to the number of the Clergy. The present vote was not for the purposes of the Church, but
 1104
 MR. TRELAWNY  regarded all taxation of this kind as unjust, and advocated the voluntary principle.
 MR. BROTHERTON  believed that, some years ago, an opportunity had been presented to Captain Warner by Colonel Sir C. Shaw, in Portugal, of putting his inventions to the test; but various excuses were then made, no eagerness was exhibited to seize the offer, and the gallant Colonel then stated, that such had been the conduct of Captain Warner, he had lost all faith in him and his vaunted invention. It had been said that  The Times The Times, The Times l.,
 MR. HENLEY  thought, that after what the hon. Member for Finsbury had stated respecting the diet table of the Bromley union, the hon. Member could not do less than move for a return of that diet table; for when it was stated that the allowance in that union-house was 4 oz. of meat per week for an able-bodied man, with 13 oz. of bread daily and 1½ oz. of cheese, it was obvious that was too little for human sustenance. With respect to the vote, it must be remembered that the vote was to defray the expenses of the Commission only till the 5th of April next; and that being the case, he did not consider that any sufficient reason had been offered for its postponement. Till the report of the evidence alluded to had been laid on the Table, they could not properly act, and there could not be time this Session to examine all the allegations that had been made, or come to any satisfactory determination on the subject. The effect of the Motion would be to stop the Commission at once, and the whole of the unions throughout the country would be at a standstill if the Commission were suddenly stopped. To that, therefore, he could not consent, for it would throw the relief of the poor into confusion, and he should certainly divide against the Motion, if the hon. Member pressed it to a division.
 MR. HENLEY  observed the sum of 30,000 l. 1115
 MR. HUME  did not wish to embarrass the Government, and also, and principally,
 1111
 MR. HUME  reminded the hon. Baronet that Parliament took the Church property from the Catholics, and gave it to the Protestants; and Parliament which gave, had a right to take when it thought fit. The complaint of the hon. Baronet was very ungrateful, for the object was to reform and purify the Church by getting rid of its sinecures. As to the vote being necessary to give Parliament a control, Parliament could call for an account at any time without this being in the Estimates.
 MR. HUME  thought it was exceedingly desirable that this vote should, in part at least, be deferred until a statement of the evidence which had been taken before the Committees above stairs had been laid upon the Table. He had always on principle supported the Poor Laws; and it was with extreme sorrow and distress that he was led by every day's experience to the conclusion that the administration of those laws had been very much misdirected. It was impossible to overstate or exaggerate the amount of the evils which had been inflicted on the country by the present Poor Law Commissioners, who he believed to be totolly incompetent and unfit for their situ-
 1105 l.,
 MR. HUME  submitted, that the House had every right to stop the pay of the Commissioners, if they had not discharged their duty towards the community in a creditable and becoming manner. No less a sum than 6,000 l.
 MR. HUME : No, no. I have stated that I have ever been favourable to the principle of the Poor Laws, but I object to the manner in which they are administered, and to the conduct of the Commissioners.
 MR. HUME  bogged to call the attention of the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government to the course which had been adopted with respect to the salaries of public officers by Lord Grey's Government, of which the noble Lord had been a member. A Committee had been appointed to revise all the salaries of public officers, from the Secretary of State downwards; and the country had looked upon that appointment as an earnest of the determination of Lord Grey's Government to practise strict economy in every branch
 1099
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he understood
 1068 pari passu. 1069
 MR. WAKLEY  thought, that, whether the long range succeeded or did not succeed, the question ought to be settled. They were wasting hours every Session in discussing the subject, and it had now become a perfect farce. They heard all sorts of recriminations, all sorts of charges and counter-charges, and nothing would satisfy the public but a trial. The right
 1097
 MR. WAKLEY  had heard with great satisfaction the statement of the noble Lord. He had taken the right course on a subject which was of great importance, and had attracted great attention in the country. The noble Lord had promised an inquiry into the whole subject; and he, therefore, trusted that the Committee would be appointed early in the next Session, and that nothing further would now be done than giving the poor the protection of relief after a residence for a certain time. He believed the noble Lord to have proposed the best course, and he hoped it would receive the sanction of the House.
 MR. WAKLEY  asked, was it right that the public should pay 3,340 l.
 MR. WAKLEY  would give his most cordial support to the proposition of the hon. Member for Montrose, who, he thought, was bound to divide the House on the question. The time had fully arrived when that House should show, in a manner not to be misunderstood, their opinion of the Commission itself, and of the conduct of the Commissioners; and he knew of no better or more emphatic manner whereby to signify their opinion than by withholding from those functionaries their salaries. If only for one week, it should be done, not through a feeling of vindictiveness, but to testify the displeasure and just indignation of the House. He would not attribute unworthy motives to the Commissioners; but he would not hesitate to affirm that the manner in which they administered to the necessities of the poor was most unfortunate, if not most cruel. They received a salary of 2,000 l. per diem 1108 l. diem. s. s. d. 1109 s. s. s. s.
 MR. WAKLEY  would follow the example that had been set him, and give way upon the present occasion, hoping that the discussion would be productive of good. Perceiving that it was proposed to vote 70,000 l. 1112 s. s. 1113
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  contended, that the cost of the Commission ought to be paid out of the revenues of the Church, and not from the public funds.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  declared that he was not now so very anxious for economy in military expenditure as he had been on former occasions. He hoped that, whatever measures might be adopted by Government, they would recollect that, if the military department was unduly diminished, very great extravagance, instead of economy, might be the result. Considering the large expenditure of France in constructing fortifications, and in the support of her army, he thought a necessity was clearly shown to Government for being cautious on this point.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  also supported the vote. He would do so irrespectively of the consideration whether the Poor Laws were mal-administered. Even though misconduct were hereafter to be established against the Poor Law Commissioners, and that on a future occasion they were to be dismissed in consequence, other Commissioners would be appointed in their stead, and the money now voted would be available for the remuneration of their successors.
 MR. F. BARING  considered that the bringing the vote annually before Parliament gave the Legislature a practical superintendence.
 SIR G. GREY  said, the hon. Member who had just spoken was quite correct in his statement of his (Sir G. Grey's) opinion given on a late occasion. He thought the constitution of that body, looking to the business they had to transact, and to the increase in that business which had lately taken place, was not satisfactory. Many members of the Commission, who were public officers, were unable to attend the Board. He did not think it would be right to dispense with their services altogether, for though they might not be able to attend regularly, yet they could give their assistance on special occasions, when it might be valuable. What he conceived to be the defect in the constitution of the Commission was, that no one person was responsible for his attendance, nor could be called on to account for the proceedings of the Board. He had already expressed his opinion that there should be some paid person responsible for attendance on the Commissioners; and to whom the House should look for the discharge of the duties of the Board. The subject deserved the serious consideration of Government, and he should be happy to give it his earliest attention.
 SIR G. GREY  had never stated that the Commisioners had performed their duties badly; but had objected to the Commission as defectively constructed, since there was a mass of business cast upon its members,
 1103
 SIR G. GREY : I think the principle of the Bill is a good one; but, looking at the opposition it has met with in various quarters, the postponement of it, I think, will tend rather to advance than retard the measure.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  seconded the Motion for the sake of investigation, but said he had no faith in the inventions. The hon. and gallant Officer ridiculed the experiments which had been hitherto made, and recommended the noble Lord to turn his attention to the promotion of free trade and the extension of commerce, rather than to the introduction of inventions which he firmly believed were not required.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  cordially concurred in the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose. He had himself told the Secretary of the Treasury that he was prepared to move the reduction of this vote. Though the Members of the Andover Committee were precluded by a vote of the House from tak-
 1110
 SIR HOWARD DOUGLAS : Having in common with both my gallant associates, first, Vice Admiral Sir Edward Owen, and then Admiral Sir Byam Martin, declined having any thing more to do with this affair, unless positively ordered upon it, as a duty which we could not disobey, I should be too happy to escape from taking any part in this discussion, had not the noble Lord the Member for Staffordshire reflected upon the spirit and character of the Commission to which I had the honour to belong, in terms which, I think the House will admit, impose upon me the obligation of defending my gallant Colleagues and myself from the imputations which the noble Lord has cast upon our proceedings. The noble Lord, premeditating, as it now appears, this attack, and intending to refer particularly to my name, ought, I think, to have given me notice of such an intention, as due in courtesy. But I am too much of a tactician to be taken by surprise. I could not, indeed, have expected from
 1077 "The duties of the commission will certainly be difficult, and highly responsible; but I undertake this as a duty, from which I feel that I ought not to shrink; and it affords me great satisfaction to learn that I am to be associated with such a person as Vice-Admiral Sir Edward Owen." I submitted "the necessity of coming to a clear and distinct understanding with Mr. Warner, in writing, as to the nature and extent of the preliminary experiments, and the locality where they are to be carried on; and that these be on a scale so extensive, as to ascertain, positively, the real service powers and effects of the invention." I stated that I should decidedly "object to anything short of experiments upon a large scale, to which, as they were to be made at the public expense, Capt.
 1078 "1st. To agree upon a series of experiments to be made under Mr. Warner's directions, in the presence of Sir H. Douglas and Sir Edward Owen. "2nd. To frame an estimate of the expense which will attend these experiments that it may be submitted to the Treasury previously to any expense being incurred. "3rd. That when the expense has been sanctioned by the Treasury, the experiments should proceed. "4th. That detailed minutes should be kept of every step of the investigation,  i. e. "5th. That Sir E. Owen and Sir H. Douglas should draw up a report as to the result of their observations to be submitted to the Prime Minister, and to which they will be pleased to annex, as an appendix, the minutes above mentioned. "6th. Sir H. Douglas and Sir E. Owen will be
 1079 14th January, 1842. "Sir—I beg to acknowledge the receipt of your note of the 12th instant. "Any day after Wednesday next that may be convenient to Sir Howard Douglas, Sir Edward Owen, and yourself, I shall hold myself disengaged, and shall be most happy to attend upon you at the Ordnance, as you propose. "I would have named an earlier day, but I have some plans and drawings to replace that I have destroyed, for the sake of security. "From the character I have heard both of Sir Howard Douglas and Sir Edward Owen, I am highly gratified with the choice the Government has made in those distinguished officers.—I am, &c. (Signed) "S. A. WARNER." "That all communications with Mr. Warner should be made in writing; and minutes kept of all that took place in our meetings with that gentleman, in conformity with articles 4 and 5 of the Master General's Memorandum. "That no attempt should be made to obtain any part of Mr. Warner's secret. "That he should be forbidden to answer any question that might in the slightest degree tend, if answered, to disclose his alleged discoveries. "That he would be required to exhibit the practical efficacy of his inventions, on a scale sufficient to enable the Commission to ascertain and report upon their practical efficacy, and utility to the public service. "That we attached by far the greatest importance
 1080 "That we were strongly disposed to proceed at once to witness any experiments he might exhibit of the astounding powers which he attributed to that alleged discovery. "That we were likewise ready to witness the powers of his invisible shells, if tried in an open sea-way, and in strong tides. "That we should not report separately on the two branches of his alleged discoveries, but wait until we should have witnessed experiments, on a scale sufficient to enable us to ascertain, with certainty, the applicability, efficacy, and value, of the 'long range' to the public service. "That these experiments should be tried in the most retired locality, and conducted with every possible regard to the retention and safety of his secret. "That these experiments should be conducted at the public expense." "That the experiments with the invisible shells should be such as to test their power and applicability with safety to the users, the value of the invention to us, the use to an enemy if neglected by us; the power of control, management, and direction, which the inventor possessed over these astounding powers; what reasonable certainty or seeurity there might be of our retaining the exclusive use of the invention, should it be proved to possess the powers which Mr. Warner asserted; or whether, should the Government purchase his secret, there was any probability that the philanthropic and humane purpose of protecting the human race from so desolating and destructive an agent, could be accomplished. "That for the trials with the invisible shells we should provide two vessels of considerable strength and magnitude; that we should cause them to be taken to some retired bay; that Mr. Warner should have due notice to prepare his means of destruction; that the hulks should remain in our charge to the last; that he should never be permitted to visit or have any communication with them; that he should have every facility for attempting to destroy them, but not allowed to do this under circumstances which the ordinary precautions of real service would not permit. "The trials to be made: first, against a vessel at anchor, and then against a vessel in motion; Mr. Warner having nothing to do with the traction or movement of the vessel whose destruction he was to attempt. "The effects of the 'long range' to be tried at the full distance of what Mr. Warner states to be the powers of his 'long range,' namely, six miles. "First, against a hulk at anchor; then against a vessel in motion; under such circumstances of wind and weather, &c. as the Commission might propose. 1081 "That the 'long range' should be tried against a fort or other building or erection to represent a fort situated on a hill, at the full distance of the 'long range.' "Against a real fort of considerable magnitude, which we were prepared to indicate to Mr. Warner, at the full distance of the 'long range,' and not much elevated above the position of the assailant. "That the experiments with the 'long range' should be made from a vessel in a sea-way—first, to leeward of the hulk, and afterwards directly to windward of the vessel to be destroyed. "That experiments should likewise be made, to enable the Commission to ascertain how far bodies, which, immersed in in the sea, or used at a 'long range,' would explode on the slightest concussion can be safely handled and applied, or resist, as in the case of the 'long range,' the percussive force of so powerful an agent." 1082 "Sir Howard Douglas has represented that there was a concurrence of opinion with respect to my inventions between himself and Sir Edward Owen. I will take the present opportunity of declaring that this is a misapprehension on Sir Howard's part. For when Sir Howard made light of some naval operations, which as a soldier officer he probably did not understand, Sir Edward Owen came forward in my defence, and expressed his belief that I could carry my plans into effect; and when to save time I offered to go down to a secluded part of the coast, and enter into some operations before Sir E. Owen, during Sir H. Douglas's canvass at Liverpool, Sir Howard would not permit a single explanation to be entered into during his absence, though Admiral Owen reminded him with a smile, that he felt himself competent to form a judgment of any naval movements, without the gallant General's assistance. I regret, to this hour, Sir Edward Owen's departure for the Mediterranean, for I believe that his knowledge of seamanship and candid disposition would have brought my affairs to a different termination than has befallen them." "Decidedly no such conversation ever passed between us. There was no difference of opinion. We both considered Mr. Warner to be trifling with the inquiry. The invisible shell is an acquaintance of forty years standing. You wished to get at once to the long range, in which I heartily concurred, and consented to go into the invisible shells as a footpath to the long range. I was prepared for the  finale 1083 1084 "As Sir Byam Martin's health is happily restored, and the apprehension of delay on that account has ceased, the motive for Mr. Warner's suggestion ceases also; for it must be obvious to every one, that it is both for the interest of the public, and fair towards Mr. Warner, that the investigation should be continuous, and that it should be begun and finished by the same Commission, if that can possibly be effected." "That we are ready to proceed in the investigation of your discoveries with as little delay as may be consistent with our instructions—that it is our intention, first, to have your 'long range' exhibited, and afterwards a practical illustration, of the effect of the 'invisible shells;' in both cases the materials to be prepared on such a scale as you may deem to be necessary for real service." "You express a desire to see an exhibition of the powers of my 'long range' first, and then some practical illustration of the efficacy of my 'invisible shells.' "With regard to the reversal of the order in which the investigation was commenced, I do not think it advisable. As I have already commenced my explanations, with reference to the 'invisible shells,' to Admiral Sir Edward Owen and Sir Howard Douglas, I think it better to complete that investigation first, and then proceed to the 'long range.' If an experiment is insisted upon, I am quite prepared to make one, and enclose, according to your request, an estimate of the probable expense as well as I can, in the absence of any specification of what you require to be done. I, however, submit to your consideration whether this expense might not be avoided, when I can refer, as eye-witnesses, to the following Gentlemen now holding high offices of State — the First Lord of the Treasury, the Master General of the
 1085 "With such testimony as to the actual power of explosion under my control, it may be a question worthy the consideration of Government, whether a repetition of an experiment of an explosive character may not incur unnecessary expense and loss of time, besides the risk of attracting public notice, which to a certain extent is unavoidable, whatever precautions may be taken. "But I must here stipulate that in the event of the experiments (with the invisible shells) proving successful, I have to be paid the sum finally agreed upon, and on the receipt of the money for the invisible shells, will forthwith proceed to demonstrate the power of the long range." "We therefore readily assent to your wish that the invisible shells may be first tried; but our report must embrace both classes of experiments, and cannot be made until both have been concluded. "You say in your letter now before us, 'I, however, submit to your consideration whether this expense might not be avoided, when I can refer, as eye-witnesses of an experiment, to the first Lord of the Treasury, the Master General of the Ordnance, the Senior Naval Lord of the Admiralty, the Secretary at War, Lord Hardwicke, and Lord Ingestre.' "If we were to be satisfied with the opinions of others, our commission would be an absurdity; and we frankly tell you we cannot permit ourselves to be influenced by any thing which has hitherto occurred. "To us, it does not appear that any experiments have been made either on a scale, or under circumstances, or in a manner, to warrant a conclusion that the power, whatever it may be, which you call invisible shells, is applicable, or practicable, under all the conditions and circumstances of real service; and with respect to the long range, to which we attach, from your own assertions of its prodigious powers, a degree of importance in-
 1086 (Signed)" T. BYAM MARTIN, "HOWARD DOUGLAS." "Sir Howard, in a very peremptory manner, told me I must disclose my secret agent, and explain its nature, properties, and composition, as well as exhibit and explain my mode of operation. This I at once declined, when Sir Howard said, without such disclosure he could not recommend my inventions to Her Majesty's Government."—Extract of a Statement which appeared in  The Times, Morning Post, Naval Military Gazette. "Present: — Admiral Sir T. Byam Martin, Lieutenant General Sir Howard Douglas. 1087 "Having at our last meeting, on the 16th instant, decided upon the answer to be given to Mr. Warner's letter of the 11th, he was appointed to meet us, this day, at three o'clock. "Mr. Warner was called in, and the two following paragraphs read to him: "You have desired in your letter of the 11th instant to stipulate for a reward for the disclosure of your secret, and remuneration of your expenses, if your inventions are proved to our satisfaction. "The letter now about to be delivered to you is in answer to yours, in which you are informed that we have no authority to entertain any such proposition. We think it right to tell you this before we ask any questions, in order that you may exercise your own discretion as to whether or not you will answer them. "Mr. Warner made no objection to the questions being put. "We then read to him this paragraph, viz., 'Before we proceed to ask any questions respecting the practical application of your inventions, we think it right again to warn you not to impart to us any part of what you term your secret; if you do so, it will be your own fault, and contrary to our wishes. You will therefore decline to answer any questions you may think objectionable.'" "As I made this the basis of my offer to Her Majesty's Government, I feel it impossible to proceed any further until you have received authority to promise me, on the part of the Government, the remuneration I ask, in the event of my proving to your satisfaction my ability to effect what I have unfolded in the document to which you have done me the honour to refer." "Our functions having ceased by your 'finally' declining to proceed to the experiments upon which we were prepared to enter (unless under a guarantee, which we are not authorized to give), we should have confined ourselves simply to an intimation of the transmission of your letter to the Master General of the Ordnance, were it not for that passage in it wherein you say, 'I put it to your candour, whether I have not already made many important disclosures to yourselves.' "To this appeal we give a decided negative, not
 1088 Nautilus, Nautilus. l. 1089 "Mr. Warner has been treated with great favour and indulgence; and if all the sanguine projectors who may be expected to present their contrivances, are to have them proved at the public expense, and with stipulated promises of reward, the national revenue would scarcely be sufficient to meet their demands. "T. B. M." "During the time I had the satisfaction to be joined with you in that duty, I can safely say that no conversation of the nature stated in his letter ever took place in my presence; and, as far as I saw, the whole bearing of your conduct towards Mr. Warner, was the reverse of what is described in his published letter. "So far from desiring to procure from Mr. Warner a knowledge of his secret, you cordially agreed with me in forbidding him to answer any question that could have the least tendency to draw from him any thing leading to its disclosure. You will no doubt recollect, that in order to give this warning the greater force, I committed it to writing, and read it to Mr. Warner before any question was asked of him. This I trust will appear in the papers which, by his desire, are about to be laid before the public. "No projector was ever more favoured by the Government; he had every assistance offered to him—men, vessels, and materials, free of all charge; and I can confidently assert, that he received from us every fair consideration and attention. — Ever truly yours, "T. BYAM MARTIN." * * 1090 "Ordnance Office, 4th July, 1842. "Sir—Since receiving your letter of the 1st instant, I have reperused the original memorandum drawn up by me with reference to the mode in which it seemed to me that Government might proceed with regard to your discovery. You were informed of the contents of that paper, and have, if I mistake not, a copy of it. It was submitted by me in the outset to Sir R. Peel, and it having received his sanction, I proceeded, as you are aware, to act upon it. "I retain the opinion I had then formed, that the mode of proceeding suggested by the memorandum above-mentioned, is one which is fair and just both towards yourself and towards the public; and I have no authority to pursue any other course. "The perfect knowledge which you possess of the nature of your discovery, and of the result of the various trials to which you have seen it subjected, may have satisfied your mind fully of the great power of the agent which you employ, of the safety and facility of its application, and of the high value of your secret to any country which obtains the exclusive possession of it. But before the Government of this country can pledge itself to a remuneration so large as that which you claim, it seems reasonable that it should obtain some practical evidence that the opinions and expectations which you yourself entertain with regard to your discovery rest upon solid grounds, and have been formed after a full and impartial investigation of the subject. (Signed) "G. MURRAY." "That Mr. Warner should be pushed to submit immediately to extensive experiments with the 'long range,' at a distance of six miles, to prove that the 'long range' can be applied, with perfect safety to the users; that these astounding powers may be safely and accurately directed: that if he shall effectually destroy a work and its defences, and a hulk or hulks at that distance; if he can prove that this may be effected at any time and under any circumstances of wind and weather, by exhibiting it, first directly from the leeward, and then directly from the windward of the ship or fort to be destroyed; we shall report that he has made an omnipotent discovery, which will place him pre-eminent in the annals of the world, and entitle him to liberal reward for a discovery of such immense magnitude and importance, as to be, in Mr. Warner's own words, 'perfectly incredible.'" 1091 * * 1092 Royal George 1093 * modus operandi, Memoire sur les Mines Flottantes et les Petards Flottans, ou Machines Infernales Maritimes; par Montgery, Officier de Marine," John o' Gaunt. "torpilles à ligne d'accouplement," * 1094 torpilles torpille, torpilles, "Vessels of all sizes, but above all steamboats, may make use of these torpilles connected with each other by lines. A vessel may even sink another by torpilles connected with each other by lines. Vessels or boats chased by superior forces may deliver themselves from their enemies, by throwing into the sea one or more of these mines flottantes connected with each other. The operation of shutting up an enemy's port, ought to be executed at night, otherwise the enemy having knowledge of it, would easily frustrate the attempt." 1095 Artizan Polytechnic Review, Athenæum, 1096
 SIR H. DOUGLAS  explained, that Captain Warner did, on the former occasion, assent to the appointment of Sir Edward Owen and himself.
 SIR J. GRAHAM : Sir, before the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) addresses the House, as the hon. Member for Finsbury has brought a charge against the late Government of a breach of faith, I hope the House will allow me to make a few observations. The hon. Gentleman says that the measure has been thrown over by the Government. I think he should have said that the Government itself has been thrown over, having lost the confidence of the House. If I had now been one of Her Majesty's advisers and enjoyed the confidence of the House, I should not have had the least difficulty as to this measure, and it would have been my duty to proceed with it. So far from the measure being abandoned, I am yet to learn that Her Majesty's present advisers will not, in the present Session, obtain the consent of Parliament to that important provision for giving the poor the great advantage of residence. I am of opinion, and I think the majority of the House is of that opinion, that this is the most important part of the measure; and my opinion is, that unless accompanied with a union settlement, many parts of the Bill will be attended with great hardship. I am willing that other parts of the Bill should be tried as an experiment; but I think that the parts which the hon. Member for Finsbury thinks of the most importance will prove harsh without a union settlement. I should say that such of the separate clauses of the Bill as had received the sanction of the majority of the House might pass into a law; but as to charging the late Government with a breach of faith, I assure the hon. Member that if we had remained in the service of Her Majesty it was our fixed intention to have proceeded with the measure, and I hope the noble Lord will proceed with it, and that it will pass and become law.
 SIR J. GRAHAM : I am not disposed to shrink from any personal labour in endeavouring to carry the measure referred to by the right hon. Gentleman; but when I look at the late period of the Session, and at the amount of business of paramount importance which remains to be transacted, I cannot think it possible that in the present Session sufficient time can be given to this Bill. Regarding the enactments to which the right hon. Gentleman attaches importance, namely, that the management of highways in districts should be made compulsory, that is the essence of the measure, and the machinery to carry it out is contained in the Bill; that is the best part of the Bill, and yet it is objected to in many quarters. So that, upon the whole, it seems better that the measure should stand over till another Session. But if the right hon. Gentleman pleases, I shall be glad to hand over the measure to him.
 SIR J. GRAHAM : There are three
 1066 pro formâ; 1067
 SIR J. GRAHAM  thought, that as the Government had so recently come into office, it was impossible for them yet to have given attention to all the minute details of this subject; and he therefore might be excused if he stated the view which he and his late Colleagues took of it. He admitted that the question was a most important and difficult one. It had been the subject of especial inquiry before a Committee of that House, presided over by Lord Ashley; and in consequence thereof a change had taken place by a general order issued by the Poor Law Commissioners, with the sanction of the Government. Two important alterations were introduced under that order. There had been a practice of putting up the office of medical relief to auction, and, consequently, of appointing such medical officers as sent in the lowest tenders, without sufficient consideration as to competency and efficiency. That practice was abolished under the order. Another arrangement was also included in that general order, which, he thought, introduced an improvement, and approximated very much to the principle which the hon. Member seemed to think expedient. The new arrangement was this, that the appointment of medical officers, in the absence of any specific term being assigned, should be held to be appointments during good behaviour, thereby rendering their situation as independent as in propriety it could be; for it was necessary that the power of dismissal should exist somewhere. He thought it necessary that in the exercise of their local patronage, the boards of guardians should have their decisions in this respect supervised by some central body, for the sake of the interests of the poor. The hon. Gentleman thought
 1114
 SIR J. GRAHAM  replied, that the sums in the Estimates for the three purposes mentioned by the hon. Gentleman, had been intended by the late Government to be limited to Great Britain, the sum for medical relief more especially. The intention of the late Government had been to relieve the counties in Ireland of the moiety of the expense of the constabulary, amounting to 180,000 l. l.
 SIR J. GRAHAM : The power of appointment of schoolmasters and schoolmistresses will remain in the board of guardians, as at present, subject always to the Poor Law Commissioners' consent. There was, in this estimate, a considerable increase in the salaries, more especially in the salaries of the schoolmasters; and the expectation was that, for the future, this would be an inducement to more competent and better educated persons than those who heretofore had filled the situations to accept these offices.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON , also, expressed his high satisfaction at the course about to be taken by the noble Lord.
 SIR R. INGLIS  protested against the principle of the framing of the Estimates being left to any Committee, or being left to any body but the House itself.
 SIR R. INGLIS  insisted that the State, and not the Church, called for the Commission. Its object was to carry into effect an Act of Parliament which the Church opposed, because her property, never having been given by the State, ought not to be so controlled by it. The State ought not to impose upon its victim the expense of the proceeding.
 SIR R. INGLIS  was still of opinion that the estimate ought to be agreed to. The withholding of their salaries from the Commissioners would be a very severe sentence upon them, and one which certainly ought not to be come to unless on the clearest evidence of their misconduct. No such evidence was now before the House, and he hoped, therefore, that the vote would be passed.
 SIR R. INGLIS  supported the Motion. He thought that the question of the administration of the Poor Laws was too important a subject to be entertained by so thin a House as the present—there being not more than about forty Members present. The hon. Member for Montrose wanted to get rid of the Poor Laws and the Commission too.
 VISCOUNT INGESTRE  rose for the purpose of again bringing under the notice of the House the invention of Mr.—for he was told that he must not call him Captain—Warner. He was aware that he incurred a great deal of ridicule by his perseverance on this subject; but he was aware, too, of the value and originality of the discovery, and that no fair trial had yet been
 1072 l. l. 1073 1074 1075 1076
 VISCOUNT INGESTRE  thanked the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the spirit in which he had announced the intentions of the Government, and complimented it on its first public act, being what he considered an act of justice. He assured the hon. Member for Salford that he had been misinformed in what he stated relative to Captain Warner, and he should be happy to put him in possession of proofs that he was in error. All he wished was, that the Government and Captain Warner should understand each other thoroughly; and he offered to become the medium of communication between them.
 Mr. STAFFORD O'BRIEN  rose to address the House, when
 An HON. MEMBER  observed that there were not forty Members present.
 DR. BOWRING  rose for the purpose of bringing forward his Motion on the duty
 1124 s., l. 1125 l., l. l. l. 1126 1127
 MR. HUME  seconded the Motion.
 MR. T. EGERTON  inquired whether, in the case of mixed funds, it was intended to require accounts of all the moneys?
 MR. BERNAL  said, his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume) perhaps had not considered the sea of difficulties he would have to encounter, though his intentions were good. If he attacked the city of London, he would find that a very strong body to deal with, and would meet obstacles at the very outset. Did he contemplate meddling with
 1129
 MR. STAFFORD O'BRIEN  agreed with the hon. Member who spoke last, that this measure might interfere with the comprehensive measure referred to by the Secretary of State, which, as he (Mr. O'Brien) understood, was in the contemplation of the Government. He protested against any great principle like this being determined by the House on the representation of merely a private Member. He did not consider that the Bill was so worded as that it could be safely allowed to make so great a change in the charities of this country. It was certainly true that those charities were liable to great abuses, that some had been abused; but he protested against the assumption of the principle that the House of Commons had a right to interfere with every charitable body. Every one that supported the Bill did so under the condition that changes would be made in it in Committee. He moved that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 MR. TATTON EGERTON  said, he did not object to the principle of accountability; but he certainly did object to the Bill on account of the form in which that accountability was demanded. He wished to know whether the measure would apply to the charitable trusts of the Wesleyans and the Unitarians, and all the other Dissenters, including the great Catholic schools at Oscot and Stonyhurst?
 LORD G. SOMERSET  would vote for the second reading of the Bill, though he thought great alterations must be made in it. He thought some investigation might conduce to the public benefit, but he protested against being precluded by his present vote from opposing the Bill if it should not be amended, so as to omit all the great religious and ecclesiastical bodies connected with the Church, the universities, or the Dissenters, whether Wesleyans, Roman Catholics, or Independents.
 MR. B. ESCOTT  said, the hon. Member for Northamptonshire was inconsistent in saying that this Bill should not be introduced by a private Member, and then that the House of Commons was not entitled to interfere with charities in the administration of which he admitted there were great abuses. The great bodies who were the trustees of those charities either considered themselves unaccountable, or acted as if they thought so, and applied the moneys to their own private purposes. He knew of charities that were so managed. When the House came to consider the great and comprehensive measure, let them come to the consideration of it with all the accounts before them. He tendered his thanks to the hon. Member for Montrose for having introduced this Bill; and he hoped the House of Commons, with the knowledge of the abuses before them, would read this Bill a second time.
 MR. NEWDEGATE : The right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) expressed it as his opinion that there was, with certain exceptions, a necessity for the present measure; but any man who gave his attention to the charitable trusts of the country, must at once see that the exceptions which would be absolutely necessary would form such a catalogue as could not be comprehended in a small bit of paper. The right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) also stated that the great question was accountability, and to secure that an enactment was necessary; while the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, said that the principle involved was such as to require a great and comprehensive measure: surely mere accountability did not deserve so large a term as that. He thought the House would do well to seek information before it proceeded further; but it had rarely sought information on the subject. If information were required and asked for, it would, in his opinion, be afforded without any legislative enactment. From the consideration he had given the subject before them, he felt it his duty to oppose the Bill.
 MR. PARKER  said, it would hardly be fair to clog the Bill of the right hon. Baronet with that question. It was one of much importance, and it would receive the early attention of Her Hajesty's servants.
 MR. BROTHERTON  considered this a very valuable Bill, and one which would give great satisfaction to the country.
 MR. HUME : My object is, that there should be in that case a balance-sheet of the moneys received and expended, whether the parties were dead or alive.
 MR. HUME  complained of the heavy duty on printed books coming from India. It was so heavy as almost to preclude the receipt of the most valuable information from that invaluable country. Now that the Colonies were being brought so close to the mother country, it was necessary that every facility should be given to the people of this country to get such accurate information as could only be obtained from the Colonies themselves at as cheap a rate as possible.
 MR. HUME  explained, that the subject had for many years been under the consideration of the House; and if they visited the library of the House, they would find numbers of volumes having reference to
 1135
 MR. HUME  thought it would be better to repeal the former Bill and re-enact it, with the additions, in the present, so that the whole measure would be made to harmonize together, otherwise ordinary men would be unable to make it out.
 MR. HUME  moved the Second Reading of the Charitable Trusts Bill. As serious objections had been taken to this measure, he thought he should best fulfil the object in view by merely retaining those clauses which secured the accountability of those who had charge of public money. It was the duty of the House, after the expense which had been incurred in inquiries, to have some accounts available that would show how the revenues of each trust had been expended. It was not his intention to include the Bible Society, and other religious trusts or charities where the founders were alive, but those only where the individuals were dead. The principle of the Bill was to secure the accountability of persons intrusted with public moneys.
 MR. BUCK  observed, that if such a measure as the present had been brought fairly before the House, he should have no objection to go into it; but he protested against questions of so much importance as the Bill involved being decided in so thin a House.
 MR. SPOONER  thought that the House
 1130
 MR. ESTCOURT  said, that the hon. Member for Montrose had told the House that there were some charities to which it was intended that the Bill should not apply. Now, if that observation included some of the charities which were then present to his mind, he confessed that it took away no small portion of the objection which he felt towards the Bill. Nevertheless, the subject was one of so grave a character that he really thought the Government ought to take it into their own hands. The Bill as it now stood appeared to him to be very crude, and he did not think it was likely to be carried into effect. It demanded that there should be certain accounts annually produced; but at whose expense? There were many charities, the trustees of which administered large funds; but they had no funds wherewith to pay clerks. No doubt, Parliament had the power of insisting upon those accounts being furnished; but he put it to the House whether it was fair to call upon trustees to employ clerks at their own expense for the purpose of preparing those accounts? He did not deny that means might be found whereby that difficulty might be obviated, and in most cases he believed there would be no objection to the publication of accounts. But he could not help observing that the measure was one of much importance; that the Bill ought not only to be printed, but very extensively circulated, before Parliament finally decided on its merits, and he feared that that could not be done at this advanced period of the Session. For these reasons he thought that the hon. Member for Montrose would do well to withdraw the Bill for the present, and introduce it in a modified form at the commencement of the next Session.
 SIR DE L. EVANS  could not help remarking that it might be all very well to say that the Court of Chancery possessed the authority necessary for taking cognizance of these matters; but it should be remembered that proceedings in the Court of Chancery were inordinately expensive. There was little use in telling a poor man that the courts of law were open to the poor as well as the rich; they certainly were open, but so was the London Tavern; both were open to any one who could pay for expenpensive luxuries. To him it appeared that the objections to the present Bill were by no means well founded—it was merely a Bill to enable the Government, the Legislature, and the country, to obtain clear and exact information upon subjects of great public importance. Every one acknowledged that great abuses were committed, and the Bill then before the House
 1131
 SIR G. CLERK  moved the Committee on the Books and Engravings Act, to enable him to introduce a Bill to carry out the convention with Prussia.
 SIR G. GREY  should not offer any opposition to the second reading of this Bill; but the House must not suppose that this was a substitute for another Bill, which had been thrown out in the other House, or for a more general measure.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  agreed on principle with the hon. Member that, generally speaking, it was advisable to consolidate the law when alterations were made in antecedent Acts of Parliament. But he could not say that this was a Bill to which that general principle applied. The antecedent Bill passed only last Session; the present Bill extended and enlarged its powers, but it was not necessary to repeal and re-enact them. When an Act so recently passed was brought again before the House, Mem-
 1128
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, he wished to state briefly to the House what took place between himself and the hon. Member for Montrose on the subject of the Bill then before them. But previously he wished to observe, that if his mind had now for the first time been brought to bear upon the question at present submitted to the consideration of the House, he should have hesitated before he gave his consent to the second reading of the measure which had been introduced by the hon. Member for Montrose, So far, however, from his being unacquainted with its provisions, the hon. Mover of the Bill had communicated
 1132 1133 l.; 1134
 LORD J. RUSSELL  then rose, and spoke as follows:—Mr. Speaker, I stated two evenings ago that I would to-day give notice of the general course which Her Majesty's Government propose to pursue with respect to several of the Bills which are now before this House; and I will do so in moving the consideration of the Orders of the Day. I wish, in the first place, to give notice that I will on Monday next state the plan of the Government with respect to the Sugar Duties. I shall state that plan in Committee, and propose afterwards to adjourn the consideration of it until the Friday following — to-morrow week. We have now reached a period so late in the Session, that I must propose
 1163 1164
 COLONEL WOOD  did not intend to follow the hon. Gentleman into the wide field he had traversed; but with respect to the Poor Removal Bill, they ought first to hear how the right hon. Baronet meant to deal with it. The hon. Gentleman said, that he had supported the whole measure of his right hon. Friend, and that the Government were now about to abandon a part. He must set the hon. Gentleman right. The Bill, as it now stood, was not the Bill which had been promised to the poor. The Bill which had been promised was to prevent the poorer classes from being denied relief after they had resided for a number of years. There was not a word about union settlements, which were afterwards engrafted on the Bill by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Malton. For himself, he highly approved of the course taken by the Government with respect to this Bill. He would not go into the inquiry
 1168
 LORD J. RUSSELL : When the hon. Gentleman asked me the other night whether I were prepared to make a declaration of the principles upon which the Ministry of which I am at the head is to be conducted, I declined undertaking that task. I, however, took no offence, as the hon. Gentleman seems to suppose, at the question, though it did not appear to me to be necessary that a person who had taken a part, perhaps an unwise—perhaps, to the country, an injurious—part, in the discussions of this House, yet at least always an open part, should, after being called upon by Her Majesty to form a Government, and after having succeeded in inducing individuals who, in his opinion, are competent to conduct the affairs of the different departments, to share with him the responsibility of Government—make a general parade of opinions and principles—a parade which it is very easy to make of declarations which may combine the sentiments of a very large majority in this House; and yet, when that parade is made, may leave Members as ignorant as they were before as to the precise measures which the Government intend to introduce. I therefore did not think it necessary to make any such declaration; and though the hon. Gentleman has alluded to various persons who filled the situation I have now the honour to hold as having made such declarations, I am at a loss to call to mind when those general declarations were made, or who were the persons that made them, on assuming the government of the country. [Mr. T. DUNCOMBE: Earl Grey did.] I do not remember that Earl Grey made, in the House of Lords, a general declaration of policy; or that Lord Melbourne or Sir R. Peel made any such general declaration. But my hon. Friend the Member for Malton (Mr. E. Denison), and the hon. Gentleman the Member for Finsbury, have made various comments and criticisms on the composition of the Ministry. At least the hon. Memher for Finsbury has asked various questions, to some of which certainly I shall proceed to give an answer. But, first, with respect to my hon. Friend the Member for Malton. He makes a criticism, which I own I do not think very just, as to the composition of the Ministry. I own that I think, considering the vast extent to which commerce and manufactures have proceeded of late times in this country—considering how vast a portion of the community depends on them—that it would be rather a juster criticism, if
 1176 1177 1178 1179 1180 1181 1182 1183 1184 1185
 LORD J. RUSSELL  could only say, in answer to the question, that his present opinion was, that the Government of Ireland could not be advantageously carried on, if the office of Lord Lieutenant were abolished.
 The EARL of LINCOLN  wished to ask
 1196
 COLONEL WOOD  hoped the Government would not yield to the request thus made to them; for if they prevented, by this Bill, the poor who had lived for five years from being removed, no alteration of the law of settlement could affect them. If hon. Gentlemen would only reflect on the ills to which the poor were liable by removal, they would not postpone this Bill; and as he thought the right hon. Gentleman was conferring a great boon on the poor, and he wished the Bill to pass, he would not press his own Amendment for reducing the term to three years, but consent to the period of five years. He was, however, very much disposed to support a clause to make widows irremovable; and he could not help thinking the day would come when the law of settlement would be abolished, to which Mr. Sturges Bourne's Committee of 1817 were inclined; and if it did come, the whole of the poor rates of this country would be reduced from 5 s. d.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that it was intended to strike out the first three clauses of the Bill; the fourth clause would therefore be the first. He should also propose to make certain alterations in the subsequent clauses, so as to admit of the application stated by his right
 1216
 MR. BODKIN  was content to take the Bill in the shape proposed by the Government, qualified by a suggestion of his own, which he had drawn up in the shape of an Amendment, and which he would presently advert to. He did not anticipate any complicated litigation on the question of residence, nor did he wish the period of residence to be reduced. He attached very great importance to that clause of the Bill which had reference to persons becoming chargeable on account of illness. What was the present oppressive state of the law with respect to them? A man with his family, who might have been living in a parish for twenty years without asking assistance from it, became suddenly ill, and his resources being dried up, he was obliged to ask aid from the parish. When he got well, the parish were obliged, in order to get their expenses reimbursed, to remove him and his family from the parish where they were resident to the parish where they were settled. This was a monstrous evil, and was often productive of grievous hardships to poor families, and therefore he attached great importance to
 1218
 MR. TATTON EGERTON  was a witness of the misery resulting in the year 1842, in the manufacturing districts, from the removal of the poor. He did not think that any objection should be taken to this measure because a Committtee was to be appointed next Session for the purpose of taking the law of settlement into con-
 1220
 LORD HARRY VANE  had thought that very little objection was likely to be made to the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Home Department, particularly considering that it related to merely a temporary measure. He hoped that the law of settlement would be altered so as to make the requisite period of residence three, instead of five years, and that it would be ultimately abolished altogether. He was of opinion that there ought to be something like a county rate established, so as to permit the freest circulation of labour. The whole subject would, however, he trusted, receive the fullest investigation from the Committee to be next year appointed for its consideration.
 MR. BICKHAM ESCOTT  said, that there could be no difference of opinion as to the spirit in which the right hon. Gentleman meant to remodel the Bill; but, the question was, whether at that period of the Session, and under the peculiar circumstances, it was expedient to make such an alteration in the law of settlement as was proposed in the Bill, even in its altered form. He had listened to all that had been said, but he had not heard any thing to convince him that the proposed alteration would be beneficial. He would not express a positive opinion as to the effects of this Bill; but in all the speeches in favour it, it had been assumed, rather than proved, that it would be a benefit to the poor of this country. It had been said, that there should be one system of Poor Laws for England, Scotland, and Ireland. If there was to be one uniform
 1217
 MR. B. ESCOTT  submitted to the hon. Member for Finsbury that the noble Lord at the head of the Government was no new man at all. In the course of the last two Sessions of Parliament he (Mr. Escott) had felt it to be his duty to consider pretty closely the conduct of the noble Lord, and he had observed that upon all the great questions which had come before that House, not only had the noble Lord given a distinct enunciation of his own opinions, but an enunciation of opinions which he believed to be such as were in accordance with the general opinion of the people of this country, and also in accordance with the true interests of the people. He should be inclined to say that the conduct of the noble Lord in the present Session, both as regarded the great question of free trade in corn, and other measures of vital importance, entitled his Government, at all events, to a fair trial, and a candid consideration, at the hands of the House. But if there was one reason more than another which would induce him (Mr. Escott) to give a fair trial to the Government of the noble Lord, it was the vote of the noble Lord upon the Irish Coercion Bill, which was the immediate cause of the eviction of the late Government. He, for one, had followed that Government with respect, and watched their political measures always with attention, and generally with admiration; but if ever there was a blunder committed by any Government in this country, it was committed by them when
 1189 1190
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that as no county Member had risen to address the House, and after the pointed allusions made by the hon. Member for Malton (Mr. E. Denison) he should perhaps be excused for saying a few words. Among the many county Members whom he had met, he had heard no complaints with regard to the constitution of the present Administration, as not comprising Members who were connected with the landed interest of the country. For himself, he believed that the landed interest had learnt so bitter a lesson, that they were determined henceforth to act for themselves, to guard their own interests, and to trust rather to themselves than to any Administration. The hon. Member for Finsbury lamented that the noble Lord had not made larger promises, and said that he failed in comparison with the right
 1194
 MR. PACKE  differed greatly from his hon. Friend who had just sat down in his views of the clause which conferred irremovability after a residence of five years. In the county which he had the honour to represent, the villages were peopled with persons who performed the principal part of the work which supported the trade of the neighbouring towns. The people worked in their own cottages, and took their work into the towns, to their employers, on Saturday night. The towns, therefore, derived all the benefit of the labour of these persons; but, as they did not reside in the towns, the burden of their maintenance, when they became sick or unable to work, would not fall, as it ought to do, upon the towns, but on the villages in which they resided. As regarded the counties of Leicester, Derby, and Nottingham, the rural districts would be ruined, if this clause of irremovability were passed. He objected, also, to the language of the clause, which conferred irremovability in respect of five years' residence. He had been a chairman of quarter-sessions for many years, and he saw such loopholes for quibbles on the part of counsel in the enactment of irremovability for five years' residence, that he thought that the discussions which would ensue would be almost endless. Whenever the Bill came before the House, he should think it his duty to oppose its progress.
 MR. WODEHOUSE  also wished the Bill postponed. The circumstances of different parts of the kingdom so much varied, that what was right in one was injurious in another; in the part of the country with which he was connected the injury would be so extensive that he must protest against the measure. The question ought not to be blinked, but it ought to be viewed in all its bearings, and this was a crude measure.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that there had been several speeches criticizing the constitution of the Government, and censuring the character of the noble Lord. He could not reconcile those remarks with his sense of justice. In his opinion, when the noble Lord, in reply to the hon. Member for Finsbury, said he had no new principles to profess, and when he referred the House to his previous career, he gave the answer most becoming to himself, which conduced most to the honour of the House, which was most intelligible to them, and gave the most security to the country. The noble Lord had shown no anxiety to obtain office; and the circumstances under which he took office eminently entitled him to the considerate indulgence of the House. The hon. Member for Malton had criticized severely the constitution of the Government; but he could not agree with that hon. Member. In the first place, it was a Government in accordance with the principles which he professed; in the second, he had the most perfect confidence in the noble Lord at the head of the Government; and thirdly, the construction of the Cabinet, as regarded its subordinate offices, was so judicious as to give the fullest confidence in the whole Administration. He believed it was the opinion of ths people of England, who were a just and generous people, that if the Government was to be conducted on the principles of the noble Lord, it was fit and proper that it should be entrusted to his hands, and he had no doubt that that Government would be so conducted as to lead to the most useful results.
 MR. STRUTT  put it to the right hon. Baronet as to whether it would not be better to defer the advantages which he expected from his measure for a few months, than to press it on, admitting as he did that there were portions of it by no means fraught with advantage to the interests affected by them. The fact was, that the right hon. Baronet was proposing a new and anomalous principle in the law of settlement, on the very eve of a comprehensive inquiry into the whole subject. Reference had been made to close and open parishes; but the abuses resulting from that system would be aggravated instead of diminished by the proposed enactments. It was because he felt that by hurrying on the measure they would be injuring rather
 1213
 MR. LABOUCHERE  was much obliged to the noble Lord for giving him an opportunity of explaining the intentions of Her Majesty's Government with respect to a Bill which was one of great importance, and one which he was aware the noble Lord had given his best attention to in drawing up, which, therefore, ought not to be dropped without bringing it before the House. He was happy, then, to assure the noble Lord that it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to proceed with that Bill, which was a most useful and important Bill. There were many other subjects of legislation relating to Ireland, with regard to which he might take that opportunity of stating the intentions of the Government—he referred to the Bills which had been introduced by the noble Lord. First, there was the Ejectment and Distress Bill: they intended to proceed with that; aad next with the Leases (Ireland) Bill. They would, however, introduce some modifications into that Bill. Next
 1197 1198
 MR. J. E. DENISON : It is not my wish to press upon the House at this period of the Session any amount of labour which my noble Friend is willing to spare it. He has declared his intention of withdrawing from the Poor Removal Bill the provision for union settlements. I shall not attempt in the face of such a declaration to uphold that provision, nor shall I even trouble the House with my reasons for desiring to see it maintained. But I cannot help inviting the attention of the House, and of my noble Friend, to the position in which the Poor Removal Bill is left. Without the provision for union settlements, the author of the Bill, the late Secretary of State for the Home Department, has avowed his opinion that the measure must work a great amount of injustice. Is it wise to carry forward a measure so characterized? I beg to ask the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department, whether it is to be a Bill of irremovability or settlement? As
 1165 1166 1167
 MR. HENLEY  did not wish to jump hastily to a measure, the certain effect of which would be to make greater the difficulties now attending the administration of the Poor Law. The right hon. Gentleman had hesitated in defining what he meant by "residence." Now, in what position was he putting the administration of the law if they could not define the meaning of an Act which they passed? The wiser and the more humane course would have been the introduction of a short Bill suspending all removals for twelve months, until the House had an opportunity of putting the law of settlement on a permanent and satisfactory basis. It was material to consider this change as it related to the Irish. If they were to declare by law every Irishman irremovable, and make no new Poor Law for Ireland, the consequence would be that a large proportion of the Irish poor would walk over to this country. Nor could he blame them for so doing. He agreed with the hon. Member for Birmingham that it was very inhuman to turn out a man from a town where he had laboured for thirty years of his life; but for the life and soul of him he could not see why, if the man was irremovable, there should be a power given to remove his wife and children. It would be impossible to define what residence meant. The investigation would be like the ripping up of a title of fifty years standing. The class of persons who now suffered most were the casual poor, those who travelled from place to place, and whose means ran short. Now, he thought that under the 11th Clause they would be prevented from getting any relief whatever.
 MR. HUME , referring to his Notice on the Paper, of a Motion for an Address to the Crown for a Commission to inquire whether the Government of Ireland, under
 1188
 MR. HUME , seeing the right hon. Baronet the President of the Board of Control in his place, begged to repeat the question which he had put to him a few nights ago regarding the province of Scinde. What he wished to know was, whether Scinde had been annexed as a province to the British Empire, as declared by Lord Ellenborough, in the same manner and under the same conditions as other provinces of the Empire—Ceylon for instance—or whether Scinde was to be considered as a portion of the possessions of the East India Company? And if so, what course was to be adopted regarding its future management, seeing that the present government of that province was altogether different from that of any other under the management of the Company, having neither a presidency nor civil government like every other province.
 MR. P. BORTHWICK  said, that when he had given notice of his intention to move that this Bill be referred to a Select Committee, his object was not to take into consideration the provisions of the Bill, but to avail himself of every means which the forms of the House put in his hands of altogether destroying its provisions, because he thought them most injurious to the country. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department had, however, informed the House and the country that the present Government intended to submit to the House that part only of the Bill which affected removability, which would leave it pretty nearly as it had been introduced by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Dorchester, when Secretary of State for the Home Department. Under those circumstances, with the object he (Mr. Borthwick) had had in view, he should withdraw the notice he had given, in order to enable the Government to go into Committee on the Bill, at the same time expressing a hope that the right hon. Baronet would not now insist upon practically going into Committee on the Bill even in its present shape, but only  pro formâ,
 MR. P. BORTHWICK  would support this Bill as an amendment of the law, although he did not say that the proposed improvement of the law was anything like perfect. They could not open the newspapers without seeing cases under the administration of the Poor Laws which must be most harassing to the feelings of all who read them. A case was stated in  The Times
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, he was opposed
 1215
 MR. B. OSBORNE , although not parti-
 1186 1187
 MR. SPOONER  did not agree in the view of the question taken by the hon. Member for Leicestershire (Mr. Packe). He did not think it a question of compensation to landlords, nor one which should be dealt with in relation to considerations of hardship on any particular parish. The only true ground to legislate for the poor was with the view of promoting their happiness and comfort. Justice to the poor, the enlargement of their comforts, and the maintenance of their rights, were the only grounds on which to legislate for them.
 1209 1210
 MR. R. PALMER  asked if it would not be advisable, at the period of the Session at which this measure was brought forward, to postpone the consideration of the subject until next Session, when the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government had announced his intention to move for a Committee to take the whole question of settlement into consideration. They could not, he contended, separate this question from the question of settlement. He knew that by enacting that a person
 1219
 MR. R. VERNON SMITH  complimented his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department, upon the great gallantry which he had displayed in covering with his shield the mangled remains of the Bill which had been bequeathed to him, and in endeavouring to galvanize it into existence in the month of July. He did not wish to embarrass his right hon. Friend in the prosecution of his task; but the least embarrassing course which his right hon. Friend could pursue would be to give up the Bill for the Session. Now, what was the course which had been adopted by his right hon. Friend? When he came into office it was found in a state in which it was impossible to proceed with it, it was such an ill-drawn Bill. He (Mr. V. Smith) told the right hon. Baronet the Member for Dorchester, that it was an ill-drawn Bill, at the commencement of the Session; and now his right hon. Friend was forced to recommit the Bill. That course might not be liable to objection; but there was another course still less objectionable, and that was to postpone the Bill till next Session. His right hon. Friend said that he could not call on the House to insert in the Bill the clauses relating to a union settlement; but the House was in a singular position in this respect, having affirmed a Motion that it should be an instruction to the Committee to insert a union settlement in the Bill. The principle of a union settlement was at least as well understood as the principle of irremovability, and he did not see why it should not be discussed. For his own part he should like to know what the principle of irremovability was. His right hon. Friend
 1211 1212
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  had taken the liberty the other day to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government, when he would be prepared to state to the House and to the country the principles on which his Government was formed, and the policy he intended to pursue. He had put that question, not to produce the irritation which seemed to be created in the mind of the noble Lord at the moment, but for the purpose of ascertaining the day and the time when the noble Lord's statement would be made to the House, because the noble Lord must be aware that on Monday last, in consequence of what had been stated in the public press and elsewhere, he was expected to come down to the House with an explanation of the principles on which his Government was about to act. People came down to that House, but their expectations were disappointed, for all they heard was about this Poor Law Removal Bill, and the withdrawal of another Bill by the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Graham). The parties, therefore, went away very much disappointed. He was afraid they might meet with equal disappointment on some future day; and, to prevent that, he asked the noble Lord on what day he would make that explanation which the country had a right to expect, and on which the House, in the performance of its duty to the people, ought to insist? Why did he do this? He was satisfied there was sufficient around him to justify such a question. Let them look at the state of the House—no one knew exactly where he ought to sit. If they had a liberal Government, the Gentlemen who were about him, on the Opposition benches, were the natural allies of such a Government and ought to sit on the same benches with the Government. But he saw hon. Gentlemen who were the bitter opponents of the Ministers in former days sitting on
 1169 1170 Weekly Chronicle, "Nothing can be more absurd than the rumours that have been circulated and continue to be circulated about the new Ministry. Every hour has its lie, and every lie its believers;" and then, after commenting on what had actually been done, the article went on to say, "One of our liberal contemporaries, the  Sun, 1171 "Can any man fathom the mental process by which Mr. Sidney Herbert was induced to espouse free-trade opinions, as soon as he met Sir Robert Peel in London, in November last year, after making the most strenuous protectionist speeches in August to his constituents. No; if there is to be a fusion of parties, by way of making what is called a strong Government, give us Sir Robert Peel and Sir James Graham. We should then, at all events, have something for our money. But, with all respect for the  Sun, The Times, Gazette, Chronicle "To this Sir Robert Peel is said to have replied, that he felt unwilling to interfere in so delicate a matter; that he would offer no opposition, but could certainly not recommend a step which would be liable to unfavourable comment, as indicating a too great tenacity of office on the part of those youthful statesmen;"— 1172 Weekly Chronicle; "That it is the opinion of this House, that any provision to be made for the purposes of the present Bill ought to be taken from the funds already applicable to ecclesiastical purposes in Ireland." 1173 "That we feel it, however, to be our duty humbly to submit to your Majesty, that it is essential to the satisfactory results of our deliberations upon these and other matters of public concern, that your Majesty's Government should possess the confidence of this House and of the country; and respectfully to represent to your Majesty that that confidence is not reposed in the present advisers of your Majesty." 1174
 MR. WAKLEY  said, that for some time past he had been puzzled, but now he confessed that he was regularly bewildered. His hon. Friend and Colleague (Mr. T. Duncombe), who had made a speech to-night so admirable in itself and so well suited to the occasion, called upon the noble Lord to state in definite, distinct, and easily understood terms, the principles upon which his Government was to be conducted. It was a strictly correct Parliamentary proceeding. It was just. It was applicable to the occasion. It was due to this House that it should be done by somebody; and it was due to the country that an answer should be given clearly and effectually. The noble Lord in the course of his reply alluded to the vague mode in which his hon. Friend mentioned an extension of the suffrage; but the noble Lord seemed to forget at the time the very vague and indistinct terms in which he himself was answering the questions of his hon. Colleague. "But," said the noble Lord emphatically, "why should I declare to the House and the country the principles upon which my Administration is to be conducted? I am going to act upon the principles which have always regulated my conduct. I have been in Parliament thirty years. My principles are well known to the House and the country, and upon those principles I shall act." Well, they were the old Whig principles. He (Mr. Wakley) had had some experience of them. He would not say anything particular about them at this moment, how-
 1191 1192 1193
 MR. WAKLEY : From the just feeling with which the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department approached the consideration of this Bill, he augured the best possible results from his mode of administering his present office. At the same time it should not be forgotten that this Bill had been brought in by the late Administration, who deserved the greatest credit for having taken up and grappled with this difficult subject. If the present Government went on in the same path as they had commenced that evening—if their other acts were similar to this proceeding, he should seldom remind them of their pledges or promises, for he liked acts infinitely better than professions. It was said, there
 1214 l. l. d. l. d. s. l. s. d. l. s. s.
 SIR G. GREY  rose for the purpose of moving that the Speaker do leave the chair; and he should take the opportunity afforded by that Motion of stating the course which the Government, upon mature consideration, had thought it right to adopt, with regard to the Bill for amending the law relating to the removal of the poor. With reference to the observations which had fallen from the hon. Member for Evesham (Mr. P. Borthwick), and also to the opinion expressed by several hon. Members, both yesterday and that day, that the House should not be called on now to consider in detail the several clauses of the Bill, but that he should now move
 1199 pro formâ, 1200 1201 1202 1203 1204 1205 1206 pro formâ,
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  was glad to hear that the Attorney General was going to remodel some of the clauses of the Bill, which appeared to him to be unintelligible; but, considering the number of Amendments likely to be proposed, there did not appear much probability of the Bill being carried at that period of the Session. Before the Bill came into operation they ought to consider who were to be the parties to carry it into execution. The Poor Law Commissioners were at present undergoing a severe trial; and he trusted that the principle of irremovability was not to extend to them. He trusted that some provision would be speedily made for removing them from the places they at present occupied. The country would not be satisfied until a different set of persons were placed in the Commission connected with the administration of the laws for the pelief of the poor.
 MR. WARD  hoped, that as he had been pointedly alluded to in the course of this discussion, he might be permitted to address a few words to the House. He believed that even the hon. Member for Finsbury would admit that he had never concealed his opinions with reference to the Irish Church question, in order to obtain the position in which it had pleased the noble Lord at the head of the Government to place him; and he could assure the House that he did not mean to conceal them for the purpose of retaining that position. Hon. Members would recollect, that at a time when none of those visions of office floated before his eyes, he had stated distinctly his conviction that the so-
 1195
 SIR J. C. HOBHOUSE , in answer to the questions put by the hon. Member for Montrose, said: I beg leave to tell him that the province of Scinde is part of the possessions of the hon. East India Company, kept by them in trust for the Crown. The hon. Gentleman will recollect, that in the papers published at the time relating to Scinde, Lord Ellenborough stated it to have been annexed in the usual manner; and in a notification made to the Indian Government he declared that he had entrusted the government of the province to
 1162
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  approved of the course taken by the Government upon the occasion; and he thought they acted wisely in postponing, at this period of the Session, that part of the Bill which related to the trial of appeals. At the same time he felt bound to state that the present system of trying appeals at quarter-sessions was most unsatisfactory, very few of the cases which came before those courts being decided on their merits, but only on technical points; and he hoped, therefore, that the right hon. Gentleman would not lose sight of the great importance of the question in his future proceedings with respect to the Bill. What was most wanted was a simplification of the present mode of trial on appeals. On the remaining question, respecting the irremovability of paupers after residence, he was glad the Government had expressed its determination to persevere in the provisions of the Bill. The poor of this country had been led to expect great advantages from the principle, and he trusted that it would soon become the law of the land. He regretted, however, that the right hon. Baronet had seen fit to disregard the three notices which stood for a reduction of the period of residence to three years; but rather than lose the advantage which would accrue to the poor from the principle, he would consent to forego his own opinion, and adopt five years. He wished, however, that the three years had been adopted, and if he could reduce it to one year himself, he confessed that he would willingly do so. The law of settlement was a great hardship, and no part of the Poor Law system partook more of the character of what was justly condemned as "class legislation." It inflicted great hardships on the poor, for the immediate benefit of those who bore the burden of their support. He admitted that it would be difficult to expunge the law of settlement at once from the Poor Law system; but he believed it inflicted more real hardship on the poor than any other part of that system. All the authorities were in favour of three years;
 1207 1208
 VISCOUNT CLIVE  rose to put a question to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department. There were at present a great number of cases ready to be inserted in the Supplementary Enclosure Bill; and he wished to know whether the right hon. Baronet intended to bring forward that Bill during the present Session. Those interested in the matter were extremely anxious that such a Bill should be brought forward.
 The EARL of LINCOLN  said, that he had carried the general Bill through the
 1231
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that it was true that some unfortunate circumstance had occurred, as stated by the gallant Officer, but means had been taken to prevent the occurrence of similar discontent. With regard to the correspondence, he had inquired, and found that it could not properly be produced. As to the general system referred to by the gallant Members who had preceded him, he could say nothing but to assure them that the most earnest attention of the Government should be given to it.
 MR. WILLIAMS  called attention to a paper recently printed, giving an account of the conduct of the prisoners sent out to Now Zealand from Parkhurst, from which the House might see what had been the good effects of the large expenditure upon those criminals. The conduct of the boys was described in a letter from a missionary as being of the worst kind. He should like to know to what purpose the Bills to the amount of 21,134 l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that when the appointment of Governor of New Zealand was offered to Captain Fitzroy, that gallant officer held a permanent public appointment in this country, and had discharged his duties most satisfactorily. He believed that Captain Fitzroy had been influenced in accepting the government of New Zealand by a desire to benefit the Colony, and that he had acted with the best motives; but he had been placed in a very difficult position, and he had certainly acted in defiance of what might be termed the generally received maxims of colonial government, though he had no doubt from a desire to benefit the public service. He considered that Captain Fitzroy had committed grave errors, and the consequence of his conduct had been most serious; but that gallant officer had himself been the loser by those errors, both in interest and reputation. Captain Fitzroy had been recalled by the Government who had appointed him; and he (Lord J. Russell) really thought that enough had been done in the matter. He was not disposed to institute any further inquiry on the subject.
 MR. WILLIAMS  observed, that this question seemed to be treated as a mere pecuniary matter; but it must not be forgotten that through the imbecility and total incompetency of Captain Fitzroy, the lives of some of the principal inhabitants of the Colony had been sacrificed. If no inquiry was instituted into his proceedings, they would hold out encouragement to similar misconduct in future.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I think it will be better on this occasion if I confine myself to a very few observations, because there are remarks that I might make upon pai—ticular parts of this subject which would rather impede the progress which I wish this matter to make, than conduce to that end. With regard to the remark which the hon. Member has just made, and which relates to the first proposition of the hon. Member for Dumfries, I certainly can have no hesitation in repeating the assurance given by the late Prime Minister, and declaring that I think it right that in every year in which a vote for education is asked, a statement should be made of the progress of education during the year, and of the state of the people in this respect, so far as it can be ascertained, before that vote is called for. I think it will be the means of furthering education itself; and I think it is due to the House, to enable it to judge what further measures are fit. With respect to other parts of this question, I agree very much with what is stated by the hon. Member for Dumfries; but I own I do not think that there are in this country the facilities which he says are to be found in other countries, and which are found even in parts of the United Kingdom; and I think that one of the most serious obstacles in the way of any general plan with respect to education is the extent to which voluntary effort has already proceeded. When M. Guizot began the improvement of education in France, he had a law, enforced by despotic authority, establishing schools according to a certain organized plan throughout France. When the King of Prussia promulgated certain laws with respect to education, he had full and undisputed authority, with respect to that subject, to promulgate such laws as he thought fit. Those wise persons who sat in the Parliament of Scotland in 1696, and passed a law with respect to education in Scotland, had the full confidence of the people of that country, then united in one religion; and no doubt they acted in conformity to the national will, unequivocally expressed, and unequivocally obeying their law, when they passed the Act establishing parochial schools in Scotland. That is in some degree the case, though not nearly to the same extent, with what was done in
 1252 1253 1254
 MR. WILLIAMS  considered the system altogether bad of Government, before it advanced money, waiting for proofs of power to co-operate on the part of those who applied. There ought to be an inspection of the means of providing education in every parish throughout England and Wales, and the liberality should be
 1258
 MR. ACLAND  could not answer as regarded this year. Last year the National Society made 430 applications, and there were granted 70,554 l., l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  could not see that anything had fallen from the hon. Member (Mr. Acland) to justify the reproach which had been heaped upon him; and he was very sure that the hon. Member was the last man in that House to offer an insult to any body of men. Nothing could be more gratifying than the good feeling which had that evening marked the discussion, on whatever side of the House it had been taken up, on this subject; and he trusted that nothing would occur to vary that characteristic. He agreed entirely with the hon. Member for Montrose in thinking it expedient that before coming to this Vote, they should, in future, have before them that information from which they might learn in what manner and where the money was applied.
 MR. HEATHCOTE  was understood to say that the property of all the designs which had ever been registered would not cover the expenses of one single case in the existing tribunals. As to the Registration Act itself, no one knew how it worked, or what service it was of, and it was therefore evident it could not last very long.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  observed, that in this case a deception had no doubt been successfully practised. Hopes were entertained that the sum might be recovered from the vendor; but it was found impracticable to resist the claim.
 LORD J. MANNERS  rose to support the appeal of the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford. He did not ask the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government for any pledge on this subject, or for any expression of opinion, but begged him to take into his consideration the very anomalous and unfair state of national education in Ireland. He could not conceive how he could tell the
 1260
 LORD J. MANNERS  gave his meed of approbation to the noble Lord for the statement of his intentions to the House. He would, however, make one or two observations on that portion of the noble Lord's remarks which appeared to convey his opinion that schools endowed to teach Greek and Latin had no means of altering their system. He would remind the noble Lord of the applicability of the  cy-pres 1255
 MR. HINDLEY  thought that the hon. Member had made a somewhat unfair use of the question, and of his information. The hon. Member desired the House, apparently, to understand that, among the Dissenting body of the population, the anxiety for a better and more comprehensive education was exceedingly slight; but it should not be forgotten, that by the principles which they professed, they were precluded almost altogether from availing themselves of the State aid. The Dissenters were strongly of opinion that it was not right and not politic that education should be in the hands of the Government; and for that reason they rejected the assistance which might be derived from the Government, and of which the professors of other religions did not hesitate to avail themselves.
 MR. HORSMAN  suggested that the system of school inspection might be beneficially carried further than at present; not by compulsion, but voluntarily. Those schools which were inspected, and had reports of their condition published from time to time, would attract the greatest share of public confidence, and in that way the system would be extended, and might even be made to include the public schools. Reports might be made to Parliament annually. It was a remark of an eminent and intelligent foreigner, that when he went
 1251
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he admired so much the temperate and conciliatory tone of the speeches which the noble Lord at the head of the Government had made, both on the present and on the preceding evening, that although he felt very strongly on the subject of the national system of education in Ireland, he had determined not to offer a single remark on the vote before the Committee which could excite an angry or irritating discussion. He agreed most fully with the noble Lord in the opinion he had expressed last night,
 1261
 MR. G. W. HOPE , in justice to Captain Fitzroy, must state that the loss of life to which the hon. Gentleman referred, took place three months before the gallant Captain arrived in the Colony.
 MR. G. W. HOPE  said, that although the vote was not framed when he left office, he believed this sum was put down to make up the round sum of 30,000 l.
 MR. G. W. HOPE  said, that Captain Fitzroy abandoned an appointment in this country worth 900 l. l. 1267
 MR. LABOUCHERE  had no intention of speaking at any length on the question, and only rose lest his silence should be misinterpreted, and lest any one might suppose that he, as a Member of Her Majesty's Government, entertained the smallest doubt of the duty which was imposed on them of maintaining and supporting that principle on which the national system of education in Ireland had been founded. There were no circumstances connected with that country which inspired him with greater hope and pleasure than the belief that, owing to the instrumentality of that system, the people of Ireland were enjoying the advantages of an education which many other countries, more fortunately situated in other respects, did not participate. He thought it was full of hope for
 1262
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he felt considerable difficulty in referring to the subject, as he had not the advantage which was possessed by the right hon. Gentleman opposite of having fully entered into the case, for he (Mr. Labouchere) knew nothing of it except from what he had heard. There was no question of principle involved in it; but he certainly could not help thinking that there would have been an advantage in postponing this arrangement until the Queen's College, which was now founded in the town of Belfast, had been established. However, as those professors were connected with such a body as the Presbyterians of the north of Ireland, he should certainly be very sorry to take any step that could in the slightest degree be deemed hostile to them; and the vote having
 1264
 MR. WARBURTON  considered that the Government ought not to neglect the suggestion embodied in the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Dumfries (Mr. Ewart). Those people in the humbler classes of life who received a better education than others in the same position naturally put this question—"When we have obtained a good education, how are we to apply our knowledge? "Now, the hon. Member for Dumfries very properly suggested, that with the enormous patronage of minor places possessed by the Government, they might lay down such a rule as had formerly been acted upon with reference to clerkships of the Treasury, that no person should receive such minor appointments unless they produced testimonials that they possessed a certain degree of education. He considered that no persons should receive appointments in the Excise, the Customs, or the Post Office, unless they had gone through a certain course of education. There were two public departments which had recently been actually brought to a standstill in consequence of the incompetency of the persons who held office in them. The first was the General Registry Office, established by the former Whig Government. The parties who received appointments as clerks in that establishment were so completely incompetent, that nearly two years elapsed before the office was got into any sort of work. The other establishment to which he referred was one created by the late Government—an office connected with the Court of Bankruptcy, and over which Mr. Montague presided. He had been informed, that in consequence of the incompetency of the young gentlemen who received appointments as clerks in that office, it was found quite impossible to get through the business of the establishment. The plan suggested by his hon. Friend would not only secure competent persons to do the work in the public offices, but it would also afford encouragement to the extension of education in the country. He had been told that the wholesome principle recommended by his hon. Friend had formerly been applied to the clerkships of the Treasury, but that it had been abandoned, and he thought most unwisely, by the late
 1246
 DR. BOWRING  thought the Government ought to establish some tribunal to decide on the copyright of designs, and would recommend them to follow the example of France in this respect. He believed the establishment of the councils of  prud' hommes
 DR. BOWRING  wished to know what proportion of the money went to the National Society.
 DR. BOWRING  was surprised to find that his hon. Friend's remarks had been so misunderstood as to lead other hon. Members to believe, he wished to throw a check on those individual efforts which conferred so much honour on this country. He did not wish to see the despotic system, even in matters of education, enforced in this country; and, indeed, he thought the people of England would never consent to hand over their educational system to that species of despotism wielded by a Minister of Instruction. But he must say, that very little had been done for the education of the people in this country. It was disgraceful to the Government that this was so. In these days of peace, the requirements of the people ought to come prominently forward. The subject of education,
 1256 l.
 MR. PARKER  could assure the hon. Member that the details which he asked for were to be found, at full and satisfactory length, in the Minutes of the Committee of Council.
 MR. J. STUART  admitted that this was one of the most important subjects that could occupy the attention of the Legislature; but he was not prepared to agree with the hon. Member who had just sat down, that the subject of education was more important than the subject of the Poor Laws; for he conceived that the subsistence and the preservation of the lives of individuals was even more important
 1248 l. 1249 1250 "But fools rush in where angels fear to tread."
 MR. HUME  was satisfied, from the attention he had paid to this subject, that it was as much the duty of the Government to provide a proper system of education for the people as to maintain a Poor Law for their support. He had regretted to find that a proposal for establishing a system of education to be maintained by the State, had been more strongly opposed by the Dissenters than by the Church of England. He considered that the duty of the State might best be carried out by regarding education as a civil duty, and leaving religious instruction to be communicated separately by the clergymen of the various denominations. Taking a list of the countries of Europe, he observed that in England the proportion of educated people was only as one in eleven; Belgium, one in ten; France, one in ten; Bohemia, one in eight; Friesland and the Tyrol, one in six or seven; and in all the rest, down to one in four, five, and six. Thus, England appeared to stand in the position of having the greatest amount of ignorance amongst her people. He also found that in Austria, Bavaria, France, Belgium, Holland, Prussia, and Switzerland, the children
 1247 l., l.
 MR. HUME  thought it extremely desirable that, before called upon to vote money for this object, they should have before them an account of the manner in which the Votes of money in previous years had been expended. He regretted to say that, so far, the practice had been to favour the richer and to neglect the poorer districts. He did not object to the amount required; he only hesitated to approve of the mode of application.
 MR. HUME : So far as he could judge from observation, the educational system in Ireland was administered in perfect fairness; but he was sorry to observe much bitterness of feeling excited by the Protestant clergy in preventing the children over whom they had control attending the national schools.
 MR. HUME  suggested that the surplus of the sums received for registering designs, which appeared by the report which had been presented to the House to amount to 9,000 l.
 MR. HUME  wished to know on what ground there had been an increase in this vote of 500 l.
 MR. HUME  wished to know if there had been a recommendation in writing to purchase the picture. If not, he trusted this would be a warning in future that no such purchase should take place without a written recommendation.
 MR. HUME  wished to ask whether, when a colonial Governor committed this country to a large expenditure of money,
 1266
 MR. HUME  expressed his belief that the expense of keeping up a fleet on the coast of Africa was unnecessary, and the system only led to a waste of human life.
 MR. HUME  said, that the noble Lord did not seem to be aware that that statement was a compliment to him; and he ought not, therefore, to have given credit to it.
 MR. BORTHWICK  said, that while admitting that the number of slaves carried to America might have diminished, he believed that the number taken from Africa had increased, a great proportion of the slaves dying on the passage, in consequence of the horrible treatment to which they were subjected.
 MR. BORTHWICK  explained. He was called upon to give his assent to a vote of 630 l. l.
 MR. BORTHWICK  objected to an item of 630 l.,
 MR. BORTHWICK  hoped there would be some limit to the system of following the laws of France, which was so often urged on them. He could not see why the tribunals which decided all other matters in this country could not decide on the copyright of designs also.
 MR. BORTHWICK  had hoped that the contiguity of the hon. Member for Montrose to the protectionist benches would have imparted a little more liberality than he showed on this occasion. All the Church of England sought was equal freedom of educating the children of her communion with that of other religious denominations. As far as the religious teaching of the people was concerned, he believed that the system of Sunday schools might be most profitably and entirely superseded by means of the Church itself.
 MR. BORTHWICK  considered that mere reading and writing did not make a good man, nor scientific acquirements a moral man. He wished to know how many Oxford scholars made the science of theology a study. The Member for Montrose, in speaking of the state of education in this country, referred to the amount of crime, and contended that this country was more steeped in crime than other nations. He denied the assertion. In England there was less crime than in France, Spain, or Portugal. A higher tone of morality prevailed in this country than was to be found in continental nations. Education was everywhere encouraged here, and the system of parochial education in particular redeemed such numbers from crime as must be gratifying to those who promoted this system. The noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had, in a few sentences, disposed of those fallacies which had of late been so prominently thrust on the public; namely, the expediency of introducing the French system into this country. The French system might do for France, as the Prussian system might be of advantage to Prussia; but neither of those systems could be productive of any good, if introduced into England. The true object of education was not to make men learned, but to make them good men and good subjects. Education wrongfully imparted had only the tendency of making the criminal a more clever criminal.
 MR. ESTCOURT , as one of the Members for the University of Oxford, felt it was impossible to allow the Vote to pass without expressing his great satisfaction at the tone which had been observed during the present discussion, by the noble Lord and other hon. Members, who had addressed the House. On former occasions attempts were made to impress the House with the belief that the promotion of public education ought to be the work of Government. But he would remind those who held this opinion, that the most successful and most advantageous national results had been accomplished by private efforts of individuals. He wished to express his anxiety for an increase of the number of establishments for training masters. Certainly, there was a period when ignorance greatly prevailed; but he had lived to see a great improvement in the system, and in particular, he
 1257
 MR. CHRISTIE  proposed to say a few words on a subject upon which he had frequently troubled the House—the state of the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, to which they would shortly be called upon to vote a sum of money. He had given notice of a Motion for inquiry, in order to show the importance of the two universities as places of education, and the necessity of making them more accessible to the middle classes. He should be unable to bring the subject before the House at present, but he hoped it would receive the attention of the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell). He knew the opinion of the noble Lord on the subject of the exclusion of Dissenters from the two universities; and the House had, besides, in the Members for Waterford and Manchester, ample security that the Government desired the removal of invidious religious distinctions in those places of public education. He had moved for a return of the lectures delivered by the professors, and the attendance upon their lectures; and this return disclosed a system that would show any one that great reform was required in the University of Oxford. Dr. Buckland was not able to command at his lectures more than ten pupils on an average of each
 1242 1243
 MR. EWART  rose to bring forward a Motion which he said he had produced in several former years. He had embodied his views in the four subsequent Resolutions:—
 
 "1. That it is expedient that early and comprehensive measures be adopted for extending the Education of the People; and that a statement he made by a responsible Minister of the Crown, on the state and prospects of Education, every year, on going into the Education Estimates. "2. That it is expedient that the formation of additional training schools for schoolmasters he encouraged. "3. That it is expedient to encourage the formation of public libraries, freely open to the public, in large towns. "4. That it is expedient that appointments to the subordinate offices of Government be made, as far as possible, on the principle of open examination of the respective qualifications of the candidates." 1233 l. l. l. 1234 caisse d'epargne, "Doomed," he says of the teacher, "to see his life flow on in monotonous toil, sometimes even to encounter around him the injustice or the ingratitude of ignorance, he would be often saddened, or perhaps overcome, if he did not draw his strength and his courage from other sources than such as can be seen through the vista of direct and purely personal interest. A deep feeling of the moral importance of his labours should sustain and animate him.  * * * * * 1235 "—the spelling is frequently very incorrect—the language is provincial and ungrammatical. They use a species of scholastic slang. I saw violent ebullitions of temper. In three schools there were notorious drunkards; in twenty-two the masters were incompetent." "Some hundreds of children, taken from the highest classes of our national schools, were incapable of telling the name of the country in which they lived. Many were ignorant who governs the country. They told me that the Queen of England was also Queen of France; that England was in Africa; and that to reach Scotland, you must cross the sea." 1236 "To the schools in Switzerland," says Mr. Kay, "lands have been attached which are farmed and cultivated by the pupil teachers. On these lands, the pupil teachers and professors may be seen toiling in farmers' frocks, like peasants, rather than of young aspirants for the much-respected profession of a schoolmaster. The teacher is never allowed to forget that he is a peasant." "—cherish his sympathies for the humble class among whom he will be called to live. They are thus taught from their childhood to combine a high development of intellect and a great elevation of character, with the simplicity and drudgery of a peasant's occupation." "Partout où l'enseignement primaire a prospéré, une pensée religieuse s'est unie, dans ceux qui le répondent, au goût des lumières et de l'instruction." 1237 l.; l.: l. l.; l.; l.: l. l.; l.; l.: l. 1238 l. s. d., l. s. d., l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. 1239 "In the respectable body of teachers, of various religious denominations, whom I have the gratification to see before me, I find the strongest demonstration I could desire of the practicability, and the blessings of a mixed system of education in Ireland. Protestant, Presbyterian, and Roman Catholic teachers, which of you, I ask, has quarrelled with your companions on the subject of religion since you came up here to be trained? Have you not lived together for the last five months on the most amicable footing? Have you not, as I once before remarked on a previous occasion, resided under the same roof, eaten at the same table, slept in the same bedroom, and mingled in the same amusements during the hours of relaxation, without party bickerings or religious strife? Have your religious impressions been weakened by this improving and delightful intercourse with your associates of different political opinions and religious persuasions? I can confidently give a satisfactory answer to these important questions. I can safely affirm that you have not forgotten, or neglected, or ceased to cling firmly to your own religion; because you have been taught to respect the feelings and conscientious opinions of those of another creed. Perhaps, however, you may have learned the folly of feeling dislikes without well knowing why—of cherishing local prejudices, the result of ignorance or limited inquiry—and I should rejoice if you have formed virtuous and lasting friendships amongst your companions from various parts of your native land, which will shed
 1240 1241 "That early and comprehensive measures be adopted for extending the Education of the People; and that a statement be made on the state and prospects of Education, every year, by a Minister of the Crown, on going into Committee on the Education Estimates."
 MR. EWART , in explanation, said he never uttered any wish to introduce the French system into this country. He had only said that the French system of training masters and of normal schools was well worthy of consideration. He did not mean to say that religion should be left entirely out of account. Although he did not think it was advisable to have religion taught in the public schools, still he considered that the religion inculcated by the religious teachers ought to form part of the system.
 MR. EWART  took occasion to point out room for improvement in the existing system. He thought that the provinces should find their own schools of design, receiving whatever assistance might be necessary from the Government.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that the intention which had been expressed by the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) to give special attention to the subject of education, had occasioned great satisfaction throughout the country. Some four months ago he (Mr. Williams) brought forward a Motion on the subject of education in Wales, and his suggestions had been favourably received by the then Home Secretary (Sir J. Graham), who promised to send inspectors into the country to ascertain the extent and progress of education. Notwithstanding the time which had since elapsed, he regretted to say that nothing had been done in the matter. He was informed, however, that the right hon. Baronet to whom he referred, had intended to act up to his promise by appointing a Commission of Inquiry on the subject, but that the uncertainty of the tenure of office by the late Government prevented this intention from being carried out. He regretted the inability of the right hon. Baronet to fulfil his promise; but he hoped that the present Home Secretary (Sir G. Grey) would give his attention to the subject.
 SIR DE L. EVANS  said, that he had given notice of a Motion, of very great importance to the interests of the army. That Motion was upon the subject of the estimate for provisions for the troops serving in the Colonies. That Motion was to the effect that the estimate for provisions should be so framed that the troops serving in the Colonies should not be deprived of any advantage or allowance in regard to stoppages which might be enjoyed by the forces employed in the home territory of the United Kingdom. He had given notice of that Motion in consequence of a disturbance in one of our regiments in the Colonies, arising from the discontent of the men with regard to the system of provisions. Should the correspondence on that subject be produced, it would be found that the system required alteration; but he would not now press his Motion, as the War Secretary was so new in his office. He trusted, however, that the attention of the Government would be given to the subject.
 SIR G. GREY  replied, that the General Enclosure Act provided that the Commissioners of Enclosures should present an annual report to Parliament, or rather that they should present an annual report to the Secretary of State, which it would be his duty to lay before Parliament. In that report the Commissioners were to state all cases of enclosure which they were prepared to recommend, and then the authority of Parliament must be taken before those recommendations could be carried into effect; and if Parliament approved of the enclosures recommended, they could be carried out under the general Act. A report had been laid upon the Table of the House two months ago, and an Act was passed to authorize the enclosures recommended in that report. The report, however, included only a few months of the year; the period over which it extended commenced soon after the beginning of the Session of Parliament, and ended with the month of May. A Bill was passed in May, authorizing the seven cases of enclosure which that period embraced. A separate report had not since then been laid upon the Table of the House, but from private information which he received he was enabled to state that fifteen cases had since then come under the notice of the Commissioners; and, doubtless, they might make a special report on the subject. When that report was made, it would be his duty to consider what could advantageously be proposed during the present Session of Parliament. He doubted whether the general Act would allow him to bring in such a Bill as would meet the case. If numerous cases required it, and the Bill was supposed to be necessary, he should have no objection to take charge of it.
 SIR H. DOUGLAS  said, that as he was the colonel of the regiment in which the discontent had shown itself, he felt bound to say that the misconduct of the men had lasted but for a short time, and when fresh arangements had been made, they had returned properly to their duty. But certainly the system of making an aggregate estimate for the provisions in all the Colonies was a most objectionable system. The consequence of it was, that in certain Colonies the men were exposed to bad provisions; and it was no consolation to assure them that, in their turn, they would reach the Colonies which were better supplied.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that this increased sum was for four professors of divinity in the institution in Belfast, each receiving 125 l.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  begged to remark, that in consequence of the mistake which had been committed on the occasion alluded to, a regulation had been made, by which there would be placed on record the opinions of accomplished and competent judges on any work of art proposed to be added to the National Gallery before any future purchase was made.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  stated, that for many years he had been one of the trustees of the National Gallery. It was very easy for the hon. Member for Evesham (Mr. Borthwick), in the absence of the right hon. Member for Tamworth (Sir R. Peel), to speak contemptuously, and it was very safe. It was necessary to tell the hon. Member for Evesham that the right hon. Member for Tamworth, though a trustee, had, for the last four or five years, had other avocations, which materially interfered with his attendance. The trustees were in this instance deceived. They employed people in whom they could confide; and the party consulted in the present case had never before been known to be wrong. He was now dead. In this case, beyond all doubt, his judgment was wrong; but, though the picture was not one of Holbein's, it was not generally admitted to be a bad picture. The hon. Member for Newark knew something of the reasons
 1265
 SIR R. INGLIS  declared that it was only doing him justice to say that he had carefully abstained from expressing any opinion as to the national system of education in Ireland. He had urged on his noble Friend at the head of Her Majesty's Government the justice and expediency of giving to those members of the Church of England who lived in Ireland the benefit of a common share in national education on principles on which they could accept it. Whatever might be his feelings on the subject, he did not say anything in reference to the merits of the national system itself, and the hon. Member the Secretary for Ireland misunderstood him if he thought so.
 SIR R. INGLIS  wished, without seeking to discuss the questions of education in Ireland, to take that opportunity of urging on his noble Friend at the head of the Government the expediency of doing what he would call common justice to their fellow subjects, members of the Established Church in that portion of the kingdom. He believed that no body of men were more entitled to complain of the system which provided for public education; and what they had demanded, as satisfaction and as justice, was that they should be permitted to apply to the Committee of Privy Council, as members of the National Society. This question had been raised eighteen months ago; and the application, though urged by the Lord Primate of Ireland, was by the then Prime Minister rejected. It should always be borne in mind that the members of the Church in Ireland were members of one united Church; and, if it were just to continue in Ireland a system of education from which that Church derived no benefit, yet, at any rate, they ought to be placed, in their applications to the Committee of Council, on the same footing as their brethren in England.
 SIR R. INGLIS  thanked the noble Lord for having formed so generous, but at the same time so just, an estimate of Captain Fitzroy's motives. Whether that gentleman had exercised a sound discretion in his mode of policy was another question; but that he was actuated by motives the purest and the most honourable could not be doubted for one instant. He had made great sacrifices, and suffered very severely.
 SIR R. INGLIS  did not wish to follow his noble Friend (Lord Sandon) through all the topics upon which he had touched; but he fully concurred with the noble Lord that the present Government had a special claim to the generous confidence of the House. He considered that they were entitled to a fair and liberal trial, and he for one was quite prepared to give them such a trial. The hon. and learned Member for Weymouth (Mr. Christie), who was an advocate of free trade in everything else, proposed, as he understood, to give the University of London a monopoly with regard to education; for that hon. Gentleman suggested to the noble Lord at the head of the Government the propriety of compelling every person who wished to practise in particular courts to show that he was qualified to do so by adorning himself with such a degree as the University of London could confer. Now, if an attempt had been made to compel any person appointed to a clerkship in the Treasury, or to any other similar office, to come prepared with a degree from Oxford or Cambridge, he (Sir R. Inglis) suspected that a cry of monopoly would have been raised most vehemently by the hon. Member for Weymouth, and those with whom he generally acted. He hoped that the noble Lord at the head of the Government
 1245
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that he was decidedly of opinion that the methods used to put down or diminish the Slave Trade had been attended with beneficial effects. From an account of a gentleman, it appeared that during the period, three or four years, which he passed in Brazil, the price of slaves had risen considerably, which was evidently a consequence of the interruption of the slave traffic. The result was not only a great diminution in the number of the victims of the Slave Trade carried over to America; but also the condition of the slaves in the Brazils had been essentially improved, as the owners of slaves, in consequence of their additional value and the increased difficulty
 1268
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  was informed that the number of negroes carried from Africa in the last year was considerably less than in former periods. The Portuguese Government were acting in good faith, through their authorities, in preventing the export of negroes from their territories; the Governor of Cuba acted in the same spirit more than formerly; and the operations on the coast of Africa were to a certain degree successful. He had been informed the other day in Paris that the joint efforts of France and England had resulted in the conclusion of about thirty treaties with chiefs on the coast of Africa, by which those chiefs bound themselves to prevent the export of negroes from their territories. If it were possible to make
 1269
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that what the officer meant was, that the system of naval interruption, in pursuance of treaties connected with the right of search and operations on shore, would have been so effective that the Slave Trade would have been put down entirely.
 VISCOUNT SANDON  hoped he might explain. He was not aware that he had merited so severe an attack; he knew the poets were irate, but did not before know that the lawyers were equally so. He had not impeached the general purity of the courts of justice; but that they were excruciating in their processes the hon. and learned Member himself allowed. Long habit probably made the hon. and learned Member consider that excruciating process necessary; he had become used to it as inflicting it; but those who were retiring from under it were naturally not so well content with it. It was strange to hear it treated as a mark of a vulgar mind to complain of the process of the Court of Chancery as tedious and expensive, especially on the subject in question, since the very highest authorities of that court but a few days since had confessed that it was so. But with regard to the particular instance to which he had referred, it was a simple case, where it was desirable to make some change in a trust for the advantage of the parties concerned; and, on inquiring of a solicitor what would be the probable expense, the answer certainly was that it would be at least 70 l.;
 VISCOUNT SANDON  could not agree in the whole of the sentiments expressed by the hon. Member (Mr. Ewart); but he agreed that the time had come when something might be done on the subject of education. The experiments of the last few years had freed the subject from some of its difficulties, and enabled the House to see, that although private benevolence had been largely and liberally displayed, they could not and ought not to rely upon such sources alone. But if the State wished to give the people religious hearts, as well as to cultivate their minds, they must not give the go-by to the spiritual instructors of the people, but must take them along with them. The evidence of the success of recent experiments had prepared the minds of men to admit that the question could not be met except by some sacrifice of individual wishes on all sides. The noble Lord at the head of the Government was in a position in which he might effect more good than ever before. The country was disposed to give him the fairest possible trial, and to judge him, not  à priori 1244 l.;
 ADMIRAL DUNDAS  said he had only been one week a Lord of the Admiralty, but he could venture to assert that it would be impossible to carry on the business of the navy without the power of summary punishment. He thought, however, it would be their most prominent duty to consider the question, and promised it should receive every attention from the Board to which he belonged.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  addressed the Chairman (Mr. Greene) as follows:—Sir, had Her Majesty's Ministers been disposed to consult their own ease, they would not in the present state of affairs have proposed any considerable alteration in the Sugar Duties. They would have had plausible reasons to allege for such a course: the advanced state of the Session, the labours which this House has already gone through, the recent formation of the Government, the intricacy of some of the details connected with this question—would have formed, in the eyes of many, grounds sufficient for postponing to another Session any large or permanent alteration of the Sugar Duties. But, Sir, there are, in our opinion, considerable evils suffered by the country in consequence of the present state of these duties. We consider that the great body of the public are sufferers by the increased price of sugar—a commodity upon which no less than 12,000,000 l., l. l., 1305 Dictionary of Commerce s. s. s. l. "The highest quoted prices of Java sugar at present are from 22 s. s. d., s.; s. s., s. d., s. d. Gazette s. d.; s., s. d.; d. s. d. Gazette s. s. 1306 s., s., s. "We think it probable that the effect of the reduction of the duty may lead to an increased consumption of perhaps 43,000 tons. Of course, these estimates must be taken as very general; but it appears to us probable that the increased consumption of sugar, consequent upon the reduction of duty, will amount to a total not much short of 250,000 tons. The consumption of British muscovado sugar, to the extent of 160,000 tons, at 14 s., l. s. d., l.; s. d., l.; s., l. l. s. l, l. 1307 l.; l. l. s. d. l. l. l. s. d., l.; l. l., l. l. s. s. d. l. *
 MR. GOULBURN : Sir, the proposition of the noble Lord is one of such extreme importance, both commercially and politi-
 1326
 LORD J. RUSSELL : What I propose to do is, to empower Her Majesty (not the Governors of the Colonies) to give Her assent in this country to any Bill passed by the Colonies which would take away those discriminating duties on foreign produce. I do not propose, in any respect, to alter the navigation laws which now exist; I only propose to give that power to Her Majesty in case the Colonies should alter those duties.
 LORD G. BENTINCK : I fear, Sir, that in the able and perspicuous statement of my noble Friend two communications alone will be agreeable to the hon. Friends around me—the one that it is the intention of my noble Friend, when he settles the Sugar Duties, to put an end to the vicious system that has lasted for many years, of renewing those duties for one year only; the other, that it is the intention of my noble Friend to facilitate the means of the West Indies in obtaining labourers from other countries. With respect to the Resolution now before the House for the temporary enactment of a measure for the levying of the Sugar Duties, my noble Friend
 1327 1328
 MR. GRANTLEY BERKELEY  trusted that in the observations he would address to the House when he alluded to that part of the West Indies with which he was intimately connected, it would be understood that what he stated was the result of practical experience. It appeared, then, that they were going to have free labour thrown over. In a petition which had been presented that night from the Tower Hamlets, it was stated that there was not a sufficient supply of sugar for this country; and then they were asked—where was the great supply to be had from? He maintained that in the first place they should look for supply to their own Colonies, and that no hon. Member had a right to say to the House and the country, that there was not
 1329 "Government-house, Demerara. "Sir—I am desired by Governor Light to say, that he has received your letter of the 15th of May, respecting the management of your plantations, in your revocation of authority from your late agent, and your appointment of Mr. Read in his place, together with other particulars connected with the management of your property in that Colony. His Excellency is quite at a loss to conceive why you should have thought it necessary so unceremoniously to bring these private affairs under his notice, especially as he has not the honour of any personal acquaintance with you. If you have been induced to do so under a supposition that his Excellency's position, as Governor of Guiana, imposes upon him the superintendence of landed estates, you are under a misapprehension." 1330
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  stated, that he apprehended the first question of the hon. Gentleman was, whether it were proposed to maintain the present differential duty upon clayed sugar and sugar equal to clayed? He did not know whether hon. Gentlemen remembered that about two years ago, when that duty had been reduced, he had stated that he had no objection to the duty on principle, but that he believed it would be impracticable in operation; and certainly the result of a return which he had moved for at the end of last year, stating the quantity of sugar admitted as white and clayed sugar duties, did show that the duty was nugatory in effect. At the same time it was a question attended with a good deal of difficulty, which had not been diminished but rather increased by the introduction of Havannah sugar. He had, therefore, retained that duty in the Resolutions before the House; but the Government were perfectly ready to receive any information that could be laid before them, as to whether it might be necessary to retain or dispense with that duty. They would take further time to consider as to what they would determine finally to adopt. The next question referred to the duty on refined sugar. There could be no doubt as to the maintenance of that duty; and he proposed to go further, and add words which he did not believe would extend the practice of the Resolution, but would make the intention of it more clear. The words he would add were "other refined sugars, or sugars by any other process rendered equal thereto." That distinction would be still essential with respect to Havannah sugars. With regard to the third question, the duty would vary from year to year, taking muscovado sugar as the basis. Every other duty would be fixed by a rule-of-three sum according to that basis, and the duty for the first year would be 28 s. s. s. s. d.
 MR. P. M. STEWART  was happy to find that the interests of the Colonies were
 1331 s.
 MR. BERNAL  thought it a great pity, if the Resolutions were to stand for discussion on Friday, that hon. Members should enter into a debate at this particular moment, when they must, like his hon. Friend, broach a subject in so limited a way that they could not do it justice. He must say, however, with respect to the use of sugar in breweries, that he never could obtain any satisfactory elucidation of the law with respect to it. He was told that there was no restriction upon the use of sugar
 1332
 MR. BARKLY  expressed his regret that the noble Lord had not felt himself in a position, whilst he proposed the admission of slave-grown sugar, to make that admission a little more palatable to those who had been well nigh ruined by the attempts to suppress slavery. When the noble Lord was about to apply the principle of free trade to the West Indian Colonies, he ought to have been better prepared with a reason for excluding the people of this country from using the products of the West Indies for any purposes; and with respect to the keeping up the differential duties of from 50 to 300 per cent on rum, he must ask if the noble Lord would give the Papers on which he had founded his opinions?
 MR. EWART  thought it was of the utmost importance to have an early and a permanent settlement of this question; it was most desirable for the commercial as well as the colonial interests; but he differed from the hon. Member for Weymouth, for he thought this the proper time to express a general opinion upon the proposal of the Government, though not upon the details. He should have been glad if the time for the final settlement had been limited to three years, and he should have deemed it still better if there had been no interval; for when they had determined to settle any question, a settlement finally and without delay was the best policy: and the noble Lord thought it would have been best with corn, and so it would have been with sugar. Agan, as far as the general principles of free trade went, he did not see why molasses should not be
 1333 d. s. s.,
 MR. T. BARING  said, it was unfortunate that the Government had not sufficient information to guide them as to whether they would continue the differential duties between refined clayed sugars, or sugars equal to refined clayed, as the market would remain in a state of suspense till the question was settled by the Government.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that what was refined, or equal to refined sugar, it was intended should pay the same duty under any circumstances; and he had introduced words into the Resolution to meet that case. As to what had fallen from his hon. Friend (Mr. P. Stewart) as to other measures for the admission of West Indian produce, he must say, that the question of the free introduction of molasses and sugar into breweries and distilleries was not quite so simple as he thought: on account of its probable interference with the malt duty the proposal could not be lightly entertained. Her Majesty's Government were prepared to give a fair and impartial consideration to the proposal if it could be carried out without interference with other interests and duties. In the same way the equalization of the duties on rum and other spirits in Scotland and Ireland was not so simple as his hon. Friend supposed. It was something perfectly new to introduce different import duties in different parts of the United Kingdom; the only exception was with respect to spirits comiug from the Channel Islands; and that exception was of no importance, as no spirits had been introduced. There was
 1334 s. d. s. d., s. d. s. d. s.
 MR. H. J. BAILLIE  said, it was unusual, and he believed unprecedented, for a Government to bring in a measure of such great importance at this late period of the Session. The question related to three important subjects—to slavery, to finance, and to the Colonies; and the House was about to deal with it in the beginning of August, when it was perfectly notorious that many Members had left London, and when it would be impossible to obtain a fair expression of the feelings of Parliament. If the noble Lord had proposed the renewal of the present duties for one year, he would not have met with opposition from any party.
 MR. HUME , so far from agreeing with the hon. Member, thought that the Government ought to have full credit given to it for bringing forward a plan for the settlement of the Sugar Duties at once and finally. He could not but consider it
 1335 s. d., s. d., s.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the argument of
 1336
 MR. RICARDO  said, he could not agree with the hon. Member for Montrose; and his hon. Friend's doctrine, which was quite new to come from such a quarter, surprised him much. He believed that the worst part of the Corn Law Repeal Bill was the postponement for three years of the final settlement of the duties. He thought the noble Lord had not made out a case, either in a financial or colonial point of view, for delay in equalising the duties on foreign and colonial sugar; and he hoped, as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had expressed himself open to conviction on many points, he would be open to conviction on this point also, and cause the duties to be made equal at an earlier period.
 MR. WAKLEY  observed, that the noble Lord on the cross benches expressed great satisfaction at the portion of the plan which permitted the unlimited introduction of free labour into the West Indies; and yet the noble Lord dwelt with a most energetic tone upon his adherence to the principle of protection, stating that British capital should be supported. But what was the fact: the introduction of crowds of labourers into those Colonies would swamp the West India labourers, at present living in comfort; and the enormous importation of these men would revive slavery there in its worst form. The House should recollect the case of the Hill Coolies, and pause before they sanctioned that part of the scheme. He (Mr. Wakley) trusted that the noble Lord would, at all events, see if an unlimited supply of labourers was to be permitted, that the Slave Trade should not be again revived—that merciless, cruel, and cold-blooded speculators should not be allowed to prey upon human life—and that those wretched creatures who were imported into the West Indies should have the same degree of protection accorded to them as the Hill Coolies.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  observed, that the acuteness of the hon. Member for Finsbury seemed for once to fail him: the House had decided nothing, not even that the Resolution should be adopted, up to that moment; though the hon. Member had assumed its sanction to the importation
 1337
 VISCOUNT SANDON  was understood to suggest that those statements which referred to colonial protection had better be deferred to another Session. The effect of admitting slave-grown sugar directly to the English market would be to act indirectly upon the whole market for foreign sugar, and raise the price, perhaps as much as 25 per cent. With reference to the observations of the hon. Member for Finsbury respecting the condition of the West India labourers, he thought that the House was bound to attend to the condition of the East Indian labourers also, and not to make an exception of one in favour of the other.
 MR. BORTHWICK  said, if he opposed any part of the scheme of the noble Lord, it should most certainly not be that part of it which abolished the distinction between free and slave-grown sugar.
 LORD J. RUSSELL , in explanation, stated Her Majesty's Government were not prepared to admit applicants for labour from the coasts of Africa, where there was not a British settlement, for fear that anything approaching slavery should take place. Precautions would also be taken to secure the principle of free and voluntary emigration in all other cases. With respect to the remark of the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool, as to the probable rise in foreign sugar, no doubt there would be a rise; but then it would only be, according to his opinion, temporary.
 ADMIRAL BOWLES  declared there was nothing whatever in the condition of the navy to create any pain or alarm to the House or the country; and if the hon. and gallant Member (Sir C. Napier) would at any time bring forward a specific charge or censure, he would undertake to meet it.
 MR. FOX MAULE : With reference to this question, I have in the first place, Sir, to say that I am very glad my hon. Friend has used the word "alleged," and that he said "death is alleged to have been caused." For I must say that the entire proceeding, no doubt from misinformation, has been mis-stated, and the public have been exceedingly misled by the newspapers. This unfortunate man, Frederick White, of the 7th Hussars, was guilty of a most violent and insubordinate act. He struck a non-commissioned officer, who was in the performance of his duty, with a
 1303 post mortem post mortem 1304
 MR. G. W. HOPE  said, he had to complain that the hon. Gentleman, in bringing forward his Motion, should have thought it necessary to single out the noble Lord under whom he had served for attack. The hon. Gentleman should have recollected that his charge was met by his own statement. The present system was commenced in Van Diemen's Land in 1839, long before his noble Friend had come into office. It had been adopted in consequence of a Committee of that House having reported against transportation to New South Wales. The whole tide of transportation had been thus directed to
 1350
 DR. BOWRING : I understand, Sir, that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War is now in a condition to give an answer to the question of which I have given notice of my intention to put this evening to him. It is, Sir, whether his attention have been called to a case in which death is alleged to have been lately caused by the infliction of military flogging. As I do not wish to anticipate his answer or his statement by any reference to newspaper reports, I will merely put the question, with the addition of "whether any steps have been taken by him in consequence?"
 MR. TRELAWNY  said, he could not understand why there should be a difference in the discipline of the army and navy in this particular, and that the right of trial by court-martial allowed in the former should not be permitted in the navy. It appeared to him that the reason why corporal punishment was so necessary in the navy was in the fact of the men being paid too low. He thought that they should get rid of the system of pressing men into the service, and place them un-
 1347
 MR. HUME  wished to ask if there was any intention of proposing the reconsideration of the articles of war. He had frequently brought the question before the House; and on the last occasion the articles had been condemned by every one in the House, including the naval officers. They ought to do everything in their power to draw our men from abroad to enter their own service; and though there had been, as he admitted, an enormous amelioration in the condition of the navy of late years, yet he hoped the Admiralty would see how much further they could go, and how far they could modify the system in accordance with the spirit of the age. He thought there ought to be returns of the punishments of the various ships in the service. In some they would find that one-half or perhaps three-fourths of the crew had been flogged, while in another they would see that not one had been subjected to such punishment. Surely this ought to be remedied. No service could be better taken care of than our navy, as regarded diet, clothing, and cleanliness. It was evident, then, there must be some cause to keep the men away from it. He thought a court-martial of three officers would be an improvement on the present system of arbitrary punishment, and might produce similar good effects to the allowance of a certain time before punishment was inflicted, which had been made in consequence of speeches in that House. He wished the returns of punishments would be laid before the House; and he would venture to say if they were made, that nine out of ten of these martinets would be found not to be their best naval officers. If there were but a few officers who followed this system, let them at least be known to the public.
 MR. HUME  was anxious, before the House went into Committee, to say how desirable he thought it was that some regulations should be made for the future, of such a nature as would tend to stop the constant scenes of crimination and recrimination which were always sure to take place whenever the Navy Estimates were under discussion. It appeared to him that it was most injudicious and improper to cry down our navy throughout the world in this extraordinary manner. Any one who had listened to the hon. Member would suppose that there was no country in the world which had so bad and so inefficient a navy.
 MR. EWART  brought forward the Motion of which he had given notice, that he would, on going into Committee of Supply, move that—
 "It is expedient that the practice of making Van Diemen's Land a general receptacle for Convicts should cease." 1348 1349
 MR. WILLIAMS  explained that he had not said there was no law on the subject, as he knew that the Act of George II. gave full power to the Admiralty to make certain regulations to which the force of law was thereby given.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  rose to call the attention of the House to the practice of flogging sailors, and to the manner in which courts-martial were constituted in the British navy. The severity of our criminal code had been very greatly ameliorated: the punishment of death, which was formerly inflicted for numerous crimes, was now imposed only in a few cases. He must point out one or two cases of ma-
 1338 1339 1340 1341 1342 1343
 SIR C. NAPIER  was prepared to go with the hon. Member for Coventry as far as his remarks respecting the difficulty of getting men for our ships were concerned. He knew ships to have lain at Spithead from one to eight months before they could get men, and would venture to say that if we wanted to man a few ships of the line at present, we should have to wait five or six months before we could do so. The men in the merchant service had a greater horror of the navy than ever they had, and it was absolutely necessary to take some steps to do away with it. As to the articles of war, he quite agreed with the hon. Member for Montrose. They were the most absurd, ridiculous, and bloody articles that ever belonged to any service in any country, and he hoped the Admiralty would take them under their consideration.
 SIR C. NAPIER  said, that before the House went into Committee of Supply, he was desirous of offering a few observations upon the subject of a vote which appeared in the Estimates. He saw a vote for shipbuilding and repairing ships, 1,273,789 l., 1351 l. Avenger Retribution exposés 1352 1353 1354
 SIR G. COCKBURN : Lord Stowell had declared the power ought to be given to the captain of a merchantman, as it was necessary for the safety of his ship; and surely there was no one in that House or out of it who would not wish to see the captain of a man of war possessed of at least equal authority. In extreme cases the discretionary punishment was at present limited to forty-eight lashes; and in the instance in which Lord Stowell gave judgment, the captain gave thirty-six lashes, after a long confinement. He would read a recent minute issued by the Board of Admiralty, which would be a sufficient guarantee that no great punishment could be inflicted without proper responsibility. The hon. and gallant Member read the document, which contained a great number of restrictive regulations prescribing the particulars to be observed in the returns of the causes of the punishment so inflicted, and the evidence on which it had been adjudged. With respect to the suggestion of the hon. Member for Montrose, he could tell him that there would be a great increase of punishments if it were acted upon, and naval courts-martial appointed in all cases that seemed to inquire its infliction. He believed it was the wish of every captain to do his best to prevent punishments in his own ship, and that they often checked the complaints of their officers when displeased with their men. The sailor lookod up to the captain as his father and protector, and regarded him as his best friend. He was very happy to hear from the hon. Member that our men were going into the merchant service, for he knew from experience that they would soon be glad to return to the navy, and not to leave it in a hurry. When there seemed a probability of war with America some time ago, the English sailors on board the American vessels all left them—more particularly in the case of the  Chesapeake,
 SIR G. COCKBURN  said, that as no hon. Member connected with the Admiralty had got up to answer the question and remarks of the hon. Member who had just spoken, he felt it his duty to do so. When the hon. Member for Coventry said there was no law for the infliction of summary punishment, he was mistaken. There was a decision of Lord Stowell on this point, in the case of a merchantman,
 1345
 SIR G. GREY  said, he was sure the House would not expect him to enter at any length into this very important subject at present. He gave his hon. and learned Friend credit for the manner in which he had brought the question before the House; and he would assure him most fully that the subject was one which was engaging the serious and earnest consideration of Her Majesty's Government. He was afraid that it was impossible to allege that his hon. and learned Friend's statement of the condition of Van Diemen's Land was at all exaggerated. As he had stated on a former evening, the question had occupied the attention of the late Government; and they had resolved to suspend transportation to Van Diemen's Land for a period of eighteen months; and the manner in which the convicts were to be disposed of in the interim, was now under consideration. The second Resolution of the hon. Gentleman embraced a still wider field for inquiry; and he believed his hon. Friend scarcely expected that he should now, on the part of Her Majesty's Government, express any opinion upon it. In theory, he perfectly agreed with the views expressed and embodied in that Resolution; but his hon. Friend was, no doubt, aware that the question of secondary punishment was one of the most important that could engage the attention of any Government. It was one that Her Majesty's Government were fully alive to, and to which their most serious attention should be given. He hoped his hon. Friend would be satisfied with this explanation, which was all he found himself in a position to give.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  hoped the Admiralty would scrutinise the various quarterly reports of the captains in commission, and reward their services with an eye to the proportion of punishments on board their several ships. A great improvement had taken place in the discipline of the service, in consequence of the observations in that House. He hoped that improvement would be continued, and that they would no longer see men punished on the spot. He deprecated the idea of appointing courts-martial for the punishment of petty offences. Half the men in the ship might be under confinement at the same time, and the places to which they would be consigned were of the most disagreeable character.
 MR. WARD  hoped his hon. Friend, who had given him much pleasure by the tone of his remarks, would recollect that the present Board of Admiralty had been only constructed on Monday last. The question to which he more particularly referred had not yet come before them; but he hoped that the question of naval punishments would be brought under their consideration. It had been found impossible to restrict the use of summary punishment altogether. Taking the admission of the hon. Member, that there must be a system of punishment where a large number of men were brought together in one vessel, it was clear that the good sense of the hon. Member would tell him that summary punishment must exist. As for himself, he must say that a greater curse to the service never existed than the old system of arbitrary punishments. But, if the hon. Member would look into the question as it stood, he would find that the improvement in the naval service had kept pace with that in the civil and other departments of the State. He found from a return which had been made the other day by his direction, that in 1839, when there were 34,000 men in our naval service, there had been 2,000 punishments; but that in 1845, when the establishment consisted of 40,000, there had been only 1,200 causes of punishment. He was prepared to state that the greatest disposition existed at the Board of Admiralty to check the system of arbitrary punishment, and that it equally prevailed among the admirals of the various stations. He had seen instructions which had been recently issued by Admiral Parker in the Mediterranean, showing the strongest inclination on his part in the same direction; and he could state that there was every intention at the Board of Admiralty to regard excessive punishments on board of any ship as discreditable to the officers in command. In the principle laid down by the hon. Member for Coventry, as to any ill-judged parsimony in our naval service, he entirely agreed. There would be large sums necessarily required for various experiments in this department; and he was sure the hon. Member would offer no opposition to their progress from any feeling of false economy. A return of punishments in ships for any one year must be fallacious, for it was evident that an officer taking command of a crew collected at haphazard, might be obliged to
 1344
 MR. WARD  would be prepared on a future occasion to make a statement in reply to tbe observations made by the hon. and gallant Member; but considering the state to which the Admiralty were reduced just at present for funds, it was to be hoped that the hon. and gallant Member would not offer any objection to the House now going into Committee, and agreeing to one or two Votes at all events on account. The fact was, they required money to go on, and could make no progress without it. There was one question, however, which had been put by the hon. and learned Member, and to which he was prepared at once to make a reply. He alluded to the inquiry with reference to a plan of retirement. This was a matter which had engaged the serious attention of the late Board of Admiralty. They had bequeathed to their successors a plan of retirement, on which the late Board were agreed, with the exception of Lord Ellenborough. The noble Lord now at the head of that department approved unreservedly of the general principles of this plan, and only waited for the
 1355
 VISCOUNT INGESTRE  said, he could not compliment the hon. Gentleman on the temper in which he had brought forward his Motion. He denied that there was any class of Her Majesty's subjects more contented than those who had the honour of serving in the navy. Unless the power of apportioning punishment rested with the commanding officers of ships, great difficulty and inconvenience would arise in maintaining discipline; and he believed, that if the power of awarding corporal punishment were done away with, there would be great danger of the discipline of the navy being subverted. He recollected an instance that came within his own knowledge of a vessel in which flogging was not practised, when all the well-conducted hands on board requested that the punishment might be inflicted on those who deserved it.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  entertained considerable difficulty with reference to this measure, which would introduce a new principle into the law of England, though altered as suggested by his hon. and learned Friend. His hon. and learned Friend had referred to the practice of duelling; but it was quite clear that both the Bill and the suggestion of his hon. and learned Friend avoided that question altogether. A great reason given for the introduction of this measure was the manner in which the law on this subject had worked in Scotland; but the suggestion of his hon. and learned Friend was this, that having enabled the executor or administrator to commence an action, the damages that were proposed to be given for the support of the widow and children should in fact be considered as assets and part of the estate, and go to satisfy creditors; now, whatever latitude was given to the law in Scotland, he believed that principle was never adopted. Would it not, therefore, be well not to adopt any suggestion that would carry it much further than the law of Scotland? The suggestion which had been made might have this effect: the proprietor of a colliery, or mine, or any species of machinery whereby an accident should happen, would not only be made answerable for the support of the widow and children of the person destroyed, but, according to the caprice of a jury, might be made to satisfy all the debts of the party; or if the jury thought it right merely to give damages to the widow and
 1369 l.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, that with respect to the first point, namely, the construction to be put on the words "causing death," the right hon Gentleman would observe, if he read the 1st Clause of the Bill, that it was not intended to alter the ground of liability at all. It said, if the party was guilty of such misconduct as would make him liable if death had not ensued; and, therefore, it appeared that there was no intention to alter the liability. He was not defending the exact phraseology of the Bill; but he did not understand
 1371 l.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  observed that, of course, the Government could not say what should be done with this Bill, without the assent of the hon. Gentleman who had charge of it. It was very desirable that the deodand should be made the means of affording some compensation to the family of a person killed. There was no difficulty as to the law of deodand itself: the difficulty was, whether it should be abolished, or how it should be applied.
 MR. BOUVERIE  would not, after the observations of his hon. and learned Friends, at present go into Committee on the Bill, but postpone it until next Wednesday, with a view to consider the suggestions that had been made.
 LORD GRANVILLE SOMERSET  would suggest that in any alteration of the law of deodand, the manorial rights should be taken into consideration.
 MR. HASTIE  said, his object was to prevent gambling, and if this Bill were allowed to pass he believed it would do much good by opening the market to real  bonâ fide 1365
 SIR F. THESIGER  had not suggested that an action should be maintained for the benefit of creditors. What he said was, that when a sum was recovered by the executors of a man killed on a railway, that it would be open to the demands of the creditors, and the residue would be paid over to the relations.
 SIR F. THESIGER  said, he believed
 1366 1367 1368
 MR. HUDSON  differed from the hon. Member who last spoke. He was not prepared to say that the Bill in its present shape was the best possible measure; but he thought that in Committee they might so amend it as to obviate any reasonable objection. He thought that they ought to consider the Bill; for it was the duty of Parliament to apply some remedy to the great evils which prevailed.
 MR. HENLEY  concurred in the suggestion to refer the matter to the Criminal Law Commissioners. There was one point worthy of consideration—whether or not it were intended by the Bill to place a man in such a situation that he might be
 1375
 MR. HUME , since last week, had received several communications on the subject of the Bill, all showing the necessity of the measure, but all requiring more to be done than he had contemplated. The only object that he had been desirous of effecting was, that a balance-sheet, showing the revenue and expenditure on account of these charitable trusts, should be laid before Parliament, thereby affording to that House and the public generally the means of obtaining that information for which they had for many years looked in vain. This was his object; but if it could be satisfactorily proved that it was desirable that more than this should be effected, he would willingly assent, and admit that it would be much more satisfactory to him that Government should take the matter into their own hands and bring forward next Session an extensive measure to meet all the views of the case. If Government would pledge itself to introduce next Session a comprehensive enactment of this description, he would willingly accede to the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet. Under all the circumstances of the case, he would at once consent to postpone the Bill until next Wednesday, and if on that day distinct assurance was given of the Government's intention to bring in a comprehensive measure next Session, he would withdraw the Bill altogether.
 MR. M. GIBSON  said, he would take the liberty of suggesting that it would not be wise to commit the House of Commons to the principle of this measure under existing circumstances. A Committee had been appointed, of which the hon. Member for Inverness was chairman, and they had directed their attention to railway matters; therefore until the House was in possession of the evidence taken before that Committee, and the Committee had made a report to the House, it would, he thought, be premature in the House to commit itself to the principle of this Bill. If the hon. Gentleman who had charge of it would consent to a postponement, it would not be necessary to go into the merits. Persons who were well acquainted with the subject had come to a conclusion that it was a measure which should not be allowed to pass under any circumstances. It contained difficult questions, and several provisions which many railway companies would not be able to comply with, not having contemplated such matters when they obtained their Acts of Parliament. The object of the hon. Member was, he believed, by the application of forcing powers to extinguish companies of an inferior description, but not to allow parties to escape from their engagements. He did not know whether hon. Gentlemen were aware of the precise objects of his hon. Friend, who wished, by limiting the time within which capital should be paid up, and limiting also the time within which the registration of shareholders should take place, to force companies to make their calls, and register their shareholders, and thus extinguish those companies which were not strong enough to bear his forcing process. Under all these circumstances he hoped the House would pause before they agreed to the second reading of this measure. If the hon. Member pressed his Motion, he must, as an amendment, move the previous question.
 MR. WAKLEY  thought the hon. Member for Kilmarnock had reason to be gratified at the manner in which this measure
 1372 l. 1373 Cries of l.
 MR. HAYTER  observed, that the House seemed to suppose that the Bill related solely to railway companies; now, it referred equally to joint-stock companies. [Mr. HASTIE: That objection might be obviated in Committee.] He took the Bill as he found it; and he perceived that it required all the capital to be subscribed within two months, and perfect registration to take place within three months; and if the Bill were to pass, and those regulations were not complied with, the result would be, that any Railway Act, belonging to any company that could be convicted of non-compliance with the provisions of this Bill, would cease to be law. Any shareholder would thus be invested with the power of repealing the Act. He objected to such a power as dangerous and unconstitutional. The Bill proceeded on the assumption that the shareholders were the only parties interested in a given railway; but it should be remembered that the public also were interested; and he objected to the Bill on this further ground, that it had the effect of  ex post facto
 SIR G. GREY  suggested to the hon. Member for Montrose the propriety of withdrawing the Bill. Last week the House affirmed by the second reading the principle of the measure, which principle was the accountability of persons holding charitable trusts to Parliament, through the Secretary of State for the Home Department. Since the second reading he had received a great number of communications from persons interested in the matter, not offering any objection to the principle of the accountability (on the contrary, they fully approved of it), but urging additions that had not been contemplated
 1363
 SIR G. GREY  thought that the necessity for some alteration in the law had been shown by the case mentioned by the hon. Member for Finsbury, which proved the impossibility of carrying out the existing law relating to deodands. He hoped, however, that the hon. Member for Kilmarnock would accede to the suggestions which had been made, and that, instead of asking the House to go into Committee on the Bill, he would consent to refer it to a Select Committee. He thought the observations of his hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate, with regard to the party liable to be proceeded against for damages, had not been rightly apprehended. That hon. Gentleman had said that the sole intention of the Bill which ought to be kept in view was not to allow
 1374
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that it appeared to be the general opinion of the House that the law of deodands was in a very imperfect state. He would suggest that the Bills should be postponed until Monday; and considering that Lord Campbell, the Colleague of the right hon. Gentleman, had taken great interest in the subject, that the Government would, before that day, determine whether the whole question of the law of deodands should not be referred to the Criminal Law Commissioners. It was not, certainly, a part of the criminal law, but it was germane to it, and he could not see what objection there could be to refer it to them, so that at the commencement of next Session they might have their report on the subject. It was impossible that this subject could be referred to more competent or able persons than Mr. Starkie or Mr. Amos, both of whom were members of it. At that period of the Session was it likely that the measure could be carried to a successful termination?
 SIR J. GRAHAM  observed, that he saw the Lord Advocate of Scotland was about to address the House, and he should be glad to hear his opinion on the matter, because from his experience of the law in Scotland he was capable of explaining what the practice was on this important subject. He would mention a difficulty that occurred to his mind; first of all, with reference to the
 1370
 VISCOUNT SANDON  wished to know how it was proposed to secure to the children of a deceased person the advantages which the present Bill proposed to give them. In the event of a jury awarding compensation to them for the death of a parent, would it be made in a gross sum or in an annuity? [Mr. BOUVERIE: In a gross sum.] But supposing the widow married another man, how would the benefits be secured to the children? The money might all be expended the day after the verdict in a drunken frolic.
 MR. O'CONNELL,  seeing the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, in his place, wished to inquire of him if he had received any intelligence that seemed to threaten a renewal of the disease with which potatoes had in the past year been so extensively affected?
 COLONEL WOOD  did not support the measure on any calculation of benefit to the rural or the manufacturing districts: with respect to them, he believed it would be a give and take change; but viewed it on the much higher ground of doing justice to the poor, by removing the dreadful law which hung over them, by which a poor man, at the end of a long life, might be removed to a parish with which he had no connexion, and in which all the inhabitants were strangers. With respect to the petition from Wales, it was signed only by three persons, the clergyman and two ratepayers, and came from a parish near Merthyr Tydvil, where it happened that there was a common, with a good supply of stones, which gave every facility to the labourers for building cottages. He thought, therefore, there was no reasonable cause for alarm; and that, whatever parishes might lose by having a few poor passed on to them, they would gain by the wages others brought there. He hoped the Government would proceed with the Bill in its present shape, and that without any amendment it would pass into a law.
 MR. B. DENISON  must say, that he thought the present state of the law of settlement was disgraceful to the country; for a person might be sent from one end of the kingdom to the other, more like a criminal than an unfortunate being unable to obtain his livelihood. He held in his hand a return which was made since the last discussion on this subject; and it appeared that in the year 1843, from the borough of Leeds, no less than 964 persons had been removed; of that number 56 had resided in Leeds all their life; 6 had lived there 40 years; 6 for 30 years; 32 for 20 years; 1 for 10 years; 27 for 5 years; and the rest for shorter periods. But suppose they passed the Bill before the House, what would they do? For it appeared by the return to which he had already referred, that, if they did pass this Bill, and said
 1390
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had hoped that, after the last discussion upon this subject, they might have been permitted to have at once gone into Committee upon this Bill; but after the personal reference that had been made to himself by his hon. Friend the Member for Malton, he might be allowed, perhaps, to say a few words. He did not think this Bill by any means a perfect Bill. But nevertheless he did consider it a Bill in the right direction. He thought his hon.
 1393
 MR. V. SMITH  said, if the right hon. Gentleman thought the Bill in its present shape would be so unjust to the ratepayers that it would be impossible not to alter it next Session, that formed a strong argument for postponing the Bill till next Session.
 MR. V. SMITH  said, it had been repeatedly complained of, as a great hardship upon ratepayers, that poor persons who lived in their parish, but who walked some four or five miles to their labour in another parish, should be chargeable upon the parish in which they resided, and not upon that in which they worked. He hoped the Attorney General would endeavour to introduce some words into this Bill to render it what it was originally designed to be—a measure connecting irremovability with industrial residence. He called upon the learned Attorney General to define the meaning of the term "residence." The right hon. Baronet the Member for Dorchester (Sir J. Graham) had, on a former occasion, promised to define the expression, but he had not done so; and he (Mr. V. Smith) considered, that if the right hon. Gentleman and the law officers of the Crown hesitated to give such a definition, it was rather hard to expect justices of the peace to define this very indefinite expression.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that it was undoubtedly the intention of the Government to retain this term "residence" in the Bill, without attempting to give any definition of it. His right hon. Friend the Home Secretary (Sir G. Grey) and himself had given close attention to the subject; they were aware that considerable difficulty must arise in the construction of this term; but after mature consideration they arrived at the conclusion that by attempting to define the term, they would only render its meaning more doubtful. The courts of quarter-sessions and of Queen's Bench had, in innumerable cases, put their interpretation on the word; and he considered, in revising this Bill, that the safer course was to follow the precedents which were to be found in our own law, and in the Scotch Act to which the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) opposite had referred, and to adhere to the term "residence."
 MR. J. S. WORTLEY  would give all the assistance in his power to improve this Bill in Committee; for it was a measure which would be advantageous to the country, and confer a great boon on the labouring classes. The hon. Member for Stroud had lost sight of the most important parties—the poor persons. A Paper had been laid on the Table that Session, showing the great extent of removals. These were a hardship on the poorer classes, and constituted a case of itself for redress; and when it was said that the parties would be chargeable where they resided, it must be remembered that if they did live in a populous parish, they spent their income there. In Yorkshire he knew of much hardship, because, in times of manufacturing distress, poor persons were sent back to work in the agricultural districts. He did not think this a perfect measure, for he should have preferred union settlements; but he agreed in thinking it most desirable to have the experience of the working of this measure for twelve months; it would check rash and inconsiderate removals, and could do no harm.
 MR. ESCOTT  wished to know from the right hon. Baronet opposite, whether he would, in the early part of the ensuing Session of Parliament consent to the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the general subject of the Fees in Courts of Law and Equity?
 MR. PACKE  said, the Bill was brought forward for the benefit of the agricultural districts; but by Yorkshire and Cheshire, which were extreme cases, alone would any benefit be obtained, and in other parts of the country the Bill would work extreme injustice: under it the poor would be more harshly, corruptly, and tyrannically removed, because an absolute power would be given to the landowers; and where they had the benefit of the labour, the ratepayers would be glad of getting rid of the obligation to support the workmen.
 MR. SPEAKER  acquainted the House that he had received from the right hon. Lieutenant General Viscount Hardinge, the following letter, in return to the Thanks of this House, communicated to him in obedience to their commands of the 2nd day of March last: And the same was read, as followeth:—
 "Simla, May 10th, 1846. "Sir—I have had the honour to receive your Letter of the 6th March, conveying to me the Resolutions of the House of Commons of the 2nd of March, which I have communicated to the Commander in Chief, General Sir Hugh Gough, bart. G.C.B., and to the several General Officers referred to therein. "The deliberate and unanimous expression of the approbation of the House of Commons is an honour highly appreciated by the General Officers, Officers, and Soldiers, both European and Native, of the Indian Army, employed in the late operations on the Sutlej. "I have to offer to you, Sir, my best acknowledgments for the very obliging terms in which you have been pleased to communicate to me the Resolutions of the House of Commons.—With the greatest esteem and respect, I have the honour to be, Sir, your obedient servant, "H. HARDINGE. "The Right Hon. the Speaker, &c. &c."
 MR. SPEAKER  acquainted the House, that he had received from the Right Honourable Lieutenant General Viscount Hardinge the following letter, in return to the Thanks of this House, communicated to him in obedience to their commands of the 2nd day of April last: And the same was read, as followeth:—
 "Simla, May 25th, 1846. "Sir—I have had the honour to convey to the Commander in Chief, Lord Gough, G.C.B., to Major General Sir Harry Smith, baronet, G.C.B., to the General Officers, Officers and Troops of the Army of the Sutlej, the Thanks of the House of Commons, which have been unanimously voted to them for the Victories of Allewal and Sobraon. "This is the second occasion, during the same Session of Parliament, that I have had the good fortune to acknowledge, on behalf of the Army of the Sutlej, the high honour which has been conferred upon that Army by the House of Commons. "This distinction, so promptly and unanimously bestowed by the Representatives of a free people.
 1383 "I return you, Sir, my best thanks, for the very handsome terms in which your kindness has induced you to convey to me the House's pleasure, and which I must attribute to your partiality, in recollecting that I have had with you, for many years, the honour of a seat in the House of Commons.—I have the honour to be, Sir, your obedient servant, "HARDINGE. "The Right Hon. the Speaker, &c. &c."
 MR. WODEHOUSE  said, that the last time the present measure had been before the House, he earnestly requested that it
 1384
 MR. E. DENISON  had a very great objection to the Bill as it at present stood. The authority of the right hon. Gentleman opposite had been used in favour of this measure; but he thought that that was an improper use of that authority; for the right hon. Gentleman stated in that House that he thought the measure in its present shape would lead to great injustice and much inequality in different parishes, and doubted whether it would produce any good, or rather whether it would not work evil, if unaccompanied by some other such measure as that of union settlements; but the noble Lord on that (the Ministerial) side of the House had expressed his opinion against union settlements; and therefore it was not right to take advantage of the authority of the right hon. Gentleman opposite for bringing in this Bill. This was no measure of the present Government. On the contrary, he had a right to state that the authority of almost all the Members of the present Government who had taken part on this measure was against it. His
 1392
 MR. HORSMAN  would also support the Amendment, in order that a measure more comprehensive, and not confined to the question of settlement, might be considered by the House.
 MR. STRUTT  regretted that the Government pressed this measure in the present Session. He objected to make such an important alteration in the law of settlement without consideration or inquiry, when there was to be a general inquiry into the law of settlement next Session. This alteration would introduce the new and anomalous principle of irremovability; and yet the introducer admitted that, unless it was accompanied by union settlements, the measure would create great injustice. They would act unfairly unless they went into the full inquiry next year, without prejudicing the question by the present adoption of this new and anomalous principle. The hon. Gentleman who spoke last stated that those Gehtlemen who he would not say opposed, but desired the postponement of this Bill, did not seem to consider the labouring poor. He hoped he should not render himself liable to the charge of a want of hnmanity towards the poor. But while they were anxious for the relief of the actual pauper, they should not forget that they ought also to show some humanity towards the poor ratepayers — their humanity should not be exclusively confined to one class.
 1388 s. l.
 MR. BANKES  could not but feel very considerable difficulty upon this subject, when he perceived the diversity of opinions that had been expressed by so many hon. Members, some of whom, as chairman of boards of guardians and of quarter-sessions, had had a great deal of experience upon it. But, after all he had heard, he retained the opinion he had held ever since the Bill had been introduced, viz., that although it stopped far short of the benefits that might be enacted in regard to the poor on the question of settlement, yet, seeing that the Bill in its reduced form of not more than seven clauses contained in every one of those clauses a principle of which he approved, he thought it would confer some benefit on the poor, and that would induce him to vote for it, although he considered it an imperfect measure. It would be a comfort to the feelings of the poor to know that some such measure was passed; but he would venture to call the
 1391
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that in answer to the question of the hon. and learned Gentleman, he had only to state that he had received letters from various quarters, official letters as well as private communications, to the effect, that though the prospects of a favourable harvest were excellent as regarded all other productions, yet that with respect to the potato crop, the disease had unfortunately made its appearance; and he feared that there was every prospect of its spreading to a serious extent.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, there was no opposition to this Bill on the part of the manufacturing districts; and if it were to be postponed, it should be understood that it was at the request of a Gentleman from whom had sprung the insinuation that the manufacturers would oppose it. He had had several opportunities of obtaining the opinions of boards of guardians in the manufacturing districts as to this Bill; they would offer no opposition to its progress; and if the Government withdrew it, he hoped it would be known that those boards had not any sort of objection to the measure.
 MR. HENLEY  said, if he thought the Bill would stop removal, he would vote for it; but after the declaration of the Government, that an important measure embracing the whole question must be brought in next Session, he should vote against the Motion to go into Committee, on the ground that paupers would be hung up by suspended orders of removal in the interim. He was averse to doing and undoing their legislation within six months.
 MR. HENLEY  urged upon the Government the absolute necessity of introducing into the Bill some words to show whether, by the term "residence," actual residence or constructive residence was meant. This ought to be done, as well in justice and fairness to the poor themselves, as to those who would be called upon to administer the law. If the indefinite expression "residence" was to be retained, undoubtedly great litigation and hardship would be occasioned from the uncertainty of its construction. A poor man might be removed to a parish where it was alleged he had gained a settlement; the order might be disputed; the case, probably, after being decided by the court of quarter-sessions, would be taken into the Queen's Bench, and the parties would be fortunate indeed if they obtained the decision of that court
 1397
 MR. HENLEY  said, that if by the words in the Bill actual residence was meant, he was of opinion that the talk about the irremovability of the poor was all nonsense; for how could a poor man, or any one else, prove that he had slept for five years in one parish? He would suggest that the decision of the two magistrates who made the order should be final on the point.
 MR. HUME  seconded the Amendment. He hoped, whatever change the Poor Laws underwent, that the present proposition, would be well and carefully considered—not by itself, but the whole system of our Poor Laws. He wished to remind the
 1385
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, that the Bill did not give irremovability after five years' labour in the parish; it went a very little way towards effecting that object; but it would create a new injustice of another and a novel kind. It made the parties irremovable who had resided for five years in any place, not who had laboured there, or had, for any time, given to the parish the profit of their labour; this was introducing a new principle into the law of England, and would operate as a grievance in not a few parishes. He would refer to five or six cases, that the House might not rush into this hasty alteration of the law with their eyes shut. A petition had been presented from Sutton, in Nottinghamshire, stating that they had eighty heads of families of agricultural labourers settled in that parish, and ninety heads of families whose settlement was not there; and after the passing of this Act the extra population of 200 or 300 would be irremovable. In another petition from Wisbeach St. Mary's, it was stated that they had 100 families whose settlement was not now in that place. On Winchlow, Warwickshire, 300 persons would be flung for relief, who would now be relieved by other parishes; and at Castleacre, Norfolk, it would add twice the present number to those which would be relieved. The principle of the Bill was to relieve rich parishes under the command of one or two wealthy proprietors, and to throw the expense of maintaining the poor on the poorer parishes. The right hon. Gentleman might intend to remove the injustice in a future Session; but he was not sure that he could do so, for those to whom the power of relieving themselves from chargeability might maintain it. There was one remarkable petition against the Bill from a parish in Wales, which was in a great degree inhabited by families who worked in the copper and iron works of a neighbouring parish, from which it was separated only by a small stream; and all those persons who worked in the copper and iron works on the other side of the stream would be chargeable on the parish
 1387
 MR. P. SCROPE  thought that if the Legislature could not, when called on, explain the meaning of the words it made use of, that circumstance would open the door to great litigation. He thought, therefore, that they should determine what was the meaning of the words used.
 SIR G. GREY  said he had conferred with the Attorney General respecting the Amendment proposed, and they both thought that it would tend to restrict the operation of the Bill within undue limits, and that it would give rise to extensive litigation. The practical operation of the Bill would be of the nature contemplated by the hon. and gallant Captain. The effect of his Amendment, however, would be, that all those who resided in one parish and had worked in another would be exempt from the operation of the Bill. He could not give his consent to the Amendment.
 SIR G. GREY  wished to remove any impression that the Government intended to postpone the Bill. He was prepared to go into Committee on the Bill as amended. It would certainly have been the easiest course for the Government to have stated that this was only a part of a great question, upon which it was not desirable to commence any partial legislation, and that upon the whole they thought it better to let the question stand over till another Session; but the Government, after a full consideration of the question, had felt that they would neglect their duty towards a large class of the community if they adopted such a course. This measure was referred to by the right hon. Baronet opposite when he introduced his commercial policy as a measure which would remove a great defect in the existing system of poor laws, under which the labouring population were suffering what he rightly termed a gross injustice. If this Bill were to be taken as a permanent Act, and was not to be followed up by a more perfect alteration of the law of settlement, he owned that he would have entertained great objection to this Bill; but as it stood, the
 1386
 SIR G. GREY  replied, that the matter to which the hon. Member referred was a very fitting subject for inquiry, and he should support any Motion for inquiry respecting it.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL,  with a view to protect from removal the industrious poor who had laboured in towns, moved, in line 7, after the word "parish," to insert the words "who has maintained himself therein by his industry, or been a householder therein."
 SIR J. GRAHAM  would not detain the House at any length, but as they were
 1394
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, before the learned Attorney General answered the appeal which had been made to him, he might perhaps he allowed to say a few words on this point. When he (Sir J. Graham) first introduced this measure, he added to the word "reside," the words "or shall have maintained himself therein as a labourer, mechanic, servant, or tradesman." But having maturely considered the propriety of adhering to these additional words, and having consulted the law advisers of the Crown on the subject, after full and deliberate consideration he came to the conclusion that it was advisable to withdraw them; and on re-introducing the Bill he adopted that course, because he feared that the introduction of those words, so far from removing ambiguity, would give rise to additional difficulties and increased litigation. The definition now proposed to be inserted in the Bill by the hon. and gallant Member (Captain Pechell) was almost identical with that to which he (Sir J. Graham) had just referred, and he considered that it was open to the same objections. Indeed, this point was one of immense difficulty, for if they attempted a definition, whatever terms they might use were open to cavil and objection. Under these circumstances he thought the wisest course was to adhere to the use of a particular term which had long been known to the law of England, and which had been interpreted in innumerable cases. It was true, as had been stated by the right hon. Home Secretary, that there could be no doubt the right interpretation of the term "residence" was industrial residence; but that term "industrial residence," though well known to the law of Scotland, was unknown to the law of England. A remark he had made on a former occasion, that irremovability was equivalent to settlement, had excited some comment. That, however, was the case in effect; for the only difference between irremovability and settlement was this—that irremovability conferred no hereditary right, while settlement conferred the right to relief upon the children of the party who obtained a settlement. They had legislated on the subject
 1398 1399
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  had great satisfaction in finding that the right hon. Gentleman had determined to proceed with a Bill the very principle of which had been recommended in a Report from the Poor Law Commissioners. When it was said, that the Bill was introduced without sufficient consideration, he must remind the hon. Member that a Bill similar in principle was introduced by the right hon. Member for Dorchester (Sir J. Graham) at the close of the year 1844, for consideration during the recess; and it was discussed in 1845, and only withdrawn on account of the union settlements. The Bill was now without them: he was sorry for it; but the principle of irremovability had been discussed in that House. It was hard upon the rural parishes to have to maintain parties they had never seen, and who were connected with them only by this law of settlement; and it was a great hardship on the poor.
 SIR R. PEEL  considered that the words employed in the Bill implied industrial residence; but if they attempted to define that, they would introduce more doubt than they could create by the simple adoption of the words in the Bill, with respect to which there existed a legal construction. What was meant by industrial residence must be left to the equitable interpretation of those who had to decide on the matter. The gallant Officer (Captain Pechell) proposed to introduce the words "who has maintained himself therein by his industry, or been a householder therein;" but those words were as doubtful as the words in the Bill, and would give rise to much question. Therefore he agreed with his right hon. Friend on this subject; and, considering that there had been a legal construction of the term "residence," and that, let them use what words they might, there still must be a wide discretion left to those who had to decide on the matter, he thought it wise to adopt that precedent which existed in the Scotch Act, or they would subject the point to greater doubt than would prevail by allowing the word "residence" to remain; and deciding
 1400
 MR. BAILLIE , in seconding the Motion, said that when this subject was last discussed in that House, it was stated that there was no authority for placing a statue in the position in which it was proposed to place this statue; and, in answer to that, the hon. and gallant Officer the Member for Scarborough said, that as the Duke of Wellington was the greatest general in the world, so it was quite unnecessary to follow the ordinary rules of art in placing a monument in so extraordinary a situation. He could not understand the force of that argument; but it occurred to him that in all probability the gallant Officer had been studying the works of the ancient Egyptians, and had seen in the curious pictorial representations they had left us, that it was the practice of the ancient artists of Egypt to confine themselves within the strict rules of art in their representations of ordinary men, but to allow themselves the fullest scope of imagination in their representations of the great heroes and conquerors of antiquity. But he must do his gallant Friend the justice to say that he did look out for an authority; for, in a letter which his hon. Friend had published in the  Illustrated London News, 1412
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  admitted, that it would be better not, in any way, to go into the general question of the Sugar Duties, or into the probable demand and supply of sugar, and he would confine himself simply to the Bill before the House. He believed that every one was agreed—and certainly every communication received by Her Majesty's Government, whether official or private, agreed—that it was most desirable, as soon as possible, for the question of the Sugar Duties to be permanently settled. He believed that all parties agreed in this—whether they supported the proposal of Her Majesty's Ministers, or whether they went further or not, all, even the West Indian body themselves, desired that there should be a permanent settlement. They all knew the term meant by a permanent settlement; and he did not believe that any one in or out of that House believed that the present Sugar Duties could remain on their existing basis; the proposal of the noble Lord, therefore, would defeat the very end he had in view; for it would leave the permanent settlement untouched for a long time, and instead of being a boon would be an injury. On Monday next it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to go on with the question of a permanent settlement, and he hoped their measure would receive the support of the House; but the extension of the present duties for a period of eleven months would be a great misfortune, instead of a great blessing, to the parties most interested.
 MR. HENRY BERKELEY , in rising to second the Motion, assured his hon. Friend that he had great pleasure in at length being enabled to stand side by side with him in manful opposition against monopoly. From hon. Gentlemen opposite (the late Ministers), he knew he ought to receive support, for they had proved themselves stout anti-monopolists; and of all species of monopoly none appeared to him so objectionable, or so detrimental to the public interests, as monopolies in contracts. He considered that the present system of requiring tenders in cases of this kind was a most fictitious and illusory system; and he was the more inclined to think that there was something bad and rotten in that system, from the circumstance that the Great Western Steam Company had been excluded from all these contracts. He must claim the indulgence of the House, if, as the representative of the city of Bristol, he supported the Motion of his hon. Friend with some warmth, for he felt that great injustice had been done to a company whose schemes had been carried out with great spirit, and which deserved as well of the country as any company in the kingdom. He would venture to say, indeed, that no other company in the kingdom had carried out works equal in magnitude and importance to those effected by the Great Western Steam Company. That company was established in 1838; and if they had reason to be proud of the Great Western
 1419 Great Western Great Britain. Great Western; Great Western. Great Britain, Great West- 1420 ern,
 CAPTAIN BERKELEY  said, it had been his pride during his professional career, to endeavour to the utmost of his power to make the ship effective to which he belonged; and it was now his pride to assist in making the British navy as effective as possible. He was sure they had the finest fleet in the world, both ships that sailed and steamed; but he confessed there might be some difficulty to man those ships, and particularly in cases of emergency. He was desirous that attention should be paid to the manning of the navy; and he hoped the gallant Commodore would never have to say that he forgot one word in office, that he had said out of it. He thought there had been too much amateur shipbuilding, and he wished that a minute, left by Lord Minto on his retirement from office, had been strictly followed. That noble Lord, foreseeing, it would appear, what was about to take place, cautioned his successors, and through them the public, not to go too fast to endeavour to vie with others who were building bad steamers, when the small class of steamers were much better and more efficient for every purpose than all the large ones they could put together.
 ADMIRAL DUNDAS  said, when the Board of Admiralty had employment for admirals, the old officers would not be forgotten. As to the question of the hon. and gallant Gentleman respecting the conveyance of specie, he believed a great part of the emolument went to the support of Greenwich Hospital. There could be no doubt but that the pursers were a most deserving class of officers, and he was sure the hon. and gallant Admiral opposite was prepared to explain the treatment of which the hon. and gallant Gentleman complained.
 MR. C. BERKELEY  had no objection to withdraw his Motion, on the understanding that no part of the works were to be proceeded with.
 MR. CRAVEN BERKELEY  said, he had hoped that the subject of the Motion of which he had given notice for that evening would have been taken up by a more influential Member than himself, and by one whose opinions would have been more regarded; but he considered the question was of so much importance that he had no hesitation in bringing it under the notice of the House. The real facts of the case were these: a number of individuals subscribed a very large sum of money for the purpose of erecting a testimonial of the military services of the Duke of Wellington; and the committee, without consulting anybody, or the majority of the subscribers, at once decided that the arch at the top of Constitution-hill was the best place on which to erect an equestrian statue of the noble Duke. That had produced the greatest dissatisfaction on the part of a great number of the subscribers; and in order that the House might be in possession of their opinions, he would read a few extracts from the correspondence that had taken place upon the subject, containing the remonstrances that had been made to the committee at the work having been commenced. The hon. Member accordingly read a letter addressed to Lord Melbourne by the sub-committee on the 8th of August, 1838—
 "Requesting that Her Majesty's Government will suspend their consent to any plan which may be submitted for their approval until the whole question shall have been considered at a full meeting of the committee, and, if necessary, at a general assembly of the subscribers." 1410 "The Wellington Testimonial is a single equestrian statue of colossal dimensions, viz., about 30 feet high; its weight, exclusive of the plinth, about 40 tons. It would not be a satisfactory surmount for the arch; colossal as it is, the horse, when placed on so huge a pedestal, would present an appearance far too meagre and tall for the situation. Proportion and unity of design are the first and most important elements in a work of art; both of these would be wanting in this instance if such a statue were placed upon the arch. The fact that the monument was not the design of one and the same artist, would strike the most casual observer." "disgrazia d'Inghilterra." "I feel sure, therefore, that your Grace and the committee will not suppose that, in submitting for your consideration the proposal which I have now to make in the name of Her Majesty's Government, there is any wish to call in question the right of the committee to claim, as they have done, the performance of a promise made to them in 1838 by the Government of the day, or their undoubted liberty to act upon that promise, by applying the arch to the use for which it was then thought proper to concede it to them. At the same time it is my duty to state to your Grace, that the remonstranees which reach Her Majesty's Government against the proposed appropriation of the arch are so many and so strong; the representations of its architect, Mr. Burton, in the same sense, are so earnest; and the opinion of every other eminent architect, artist, or other competent authority who has been consulted on the subject, is so decided—that Her Majesty's Government feel called upon not only to make a final effort to induce the subscribers to reconsider the project of placing the statue on the site at present proposed,
 1411 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying Her Majesty to withdraw Her Consent to the placing of the Statue of the Duke of Wellington upon the archway at the top of Constitution Hill."
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  had heard with much pleasure the statement of the hon. Gentle-
 1460 Vernon, Pique, United States,
 LORD G. BENTINCK  moved, that the 5th of July, 1847, be substituted for the 5th of September, 1846; the effect of his Amendment would be to extend the opera-
 1405 1406
 MR. B. ESCOTT  could not see why a Committee should not be granted. All were agreed that there should be an inquiry. The only question was, what should be inquired into? He hoped that an inquiry would be granted now.
 MR. G. H. HENEAGE  wished to call the attention of the Committee to the large expenditure in forming a steam navy. They had hitherto no experience of the use of such enormous war steamers; those hitherto usefully employed in China and elsewhere were comparatively of a small class. A number of these large steamers had been sent to sea with the experimental squadron, and on a gale coming on they were not to be seen at the end of twenty-four hours, although the rest of the squadron kept together.
 MR. AGLIONBY  thought that, at that late period of the Session, there would be little enough time for going into the investigation before the Committee. He was quite ready to vote for an inquiry, if an inquiry were thought necessary. The discussion of that evening would be known to all the world. The charges made implicated the governor of the prison, and in some degree the inspectors; and he said that for their sakes the House ought to proceed with the inquiry immediately. Taking the case as the right hon. Gentleman (Sir G. Grey) stated it, that the answers contained in the Report amounted to a total denial of the charges to the satisfaction of the right hon. Gentleman, that would not satisfy the House or the public.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, as the contract
 1421 1422 l. l. 1423 l. l., 1424 l. l., l. l. l., l., 1425 l.; 1426 1427
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that he stated distinctly, on the question being put to him, that whether the contract was signed or not, it had been substantially made before he was asked the question, and only required the mere formality of signing to be complete.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was understood to say that he had no hesitation in speaking to the propriety of the contract in question. The hon. Members for Bristol and Birmingham had said that all contracts should be made by public tender. On the whole that was the right principle; but it could not be adopted universally, and it sometimes happened that the Government was obliged to return to the system of private arrangement. When the first attempt was made to establish steam communication with our North American Colonies, independent of the United States, the Government called for tenders for carrying the mails to Halifax. At that time the only steamboat likely to run acros the Atlantic was the  Great Western, Great Western. l. l. l. l., 1431 Syrius Great Western. l. 1432
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, all that the Government wanted was that the question should be fairly laid before Parliament, and should be fairly discussed on its own merits; and they had, therefore, a perfect right to object to this measure as prejudging the question. It might also produce an impression that the House was not about to settle this question permanently, and that the Parliament was unwilling to enter into the serious consideration of the Sugar Duties with a view to their final and satisfactory arrangement. All knew the effect which uncertainty had produced during the last five years, and that there was nothing so much required as a final and permanent adjustment. Although he admitted that the Amendment would throw no technical obstruction to the permanent settlement, yet there would be a moral effect, and an impression would be made on the public, and commercial interests would be prejudiced.
 MR. HUME  thought it was greatly to be regretted, if the Report had been three weeks in the Home-office, that it had not been brought forward before this as an answer to the allegations in Edward Baker's petition. At the same time he thought the proposal of the right hon. the Secretary for the Home Department quite fair; and, under the circumstances, he was of opinion that his hon. Friend should not press his Motion at present. If the Report of the Inspectors had been in their hands before this matter came on, it might have saved his hon. Friend the trouble of making his present Motion. At the same time he must say he thought they ought not to shut the door against inquiries such as these. Take the case of the Andover Union for instance. No man could have dreamed, before that inquiry was instituted, of the existence of such horrors and atrocities as were made known by it. He had hitherto supported the Poor Law Commission; and he was mortified, he was disappointed at what he had heard, and therefore he should be suspicious when he heard of inquiries being denied. In this case he could not think that Baker could be blamed for complaining. That part of the charge which related to the whip—the charge, namely, of using an instrument that was not allowed by the regulations of the prison, was alone, in his opinion, a proper subject of charge and of investigation; and if it turned out to be true, he hoped his hon. Friend (Mr. Duncombe) would not remit his exertions to obtain a complete investigation by a Committee. Conduct such as that in the governor of a prison was a sufficient reason, he considered, to cause the withdrawal of the confidence of any Government. He hoped his hon. Friend would take the Report and consider it, and if it were not satisfactory, he (Mr. Hume) should be happy to support him in moving for a Committee.
 MR. HUME  wished to make a few observations on this vote. The sum now moved for was a very large one, especially looking back to what it was when he first came into the House. It had gradually gone up from a few thousands to upwards of 40,000 l. 1441 l. 1442 1443 1444 l.,
 MR. P. MILES  moved, as an Amendment, for a Select Committee to inquire into the circumstances connected with the granting of the present contract for the conveyance of the mails from England to Halifax and Boston, and also into the circumstances connected with the granting of any new, or the extension of the existing contract for the same purpose. The hon. Member said it was impossible that the country should be satisfied with the contracts made with the Cunard line. The performances of the  Great Western Great Britain l. l., l.; l. 1418 l. l.
 MR. P. MILES  said, he would now withdraw his Motion, on the understanding, as stated by the right hon. Gentleman, that the Committee would be granted.
 MR. SPOONER  said, that the consequence of entering into this contract was, that it was utterly impossible for the  Great Western Great Britain 1428
 MR. SPOONER  hoped that his hon. Friend would not press the Motion. He admitted that the allegations of the petition ought to be inquired into; but what more could be done in the first instance than what the right hon. Gentleman (Sir G. Grey) had proposed? A few days' delay could do no harm; but, on the contrary, the Motion would have much more weight after the hon. Member had read the Report.
 MR. T. S. DUNCOMBE  rose to direct the attention of the House to the petition which, on a former occasion, he had presented from Edward Baker, preferring serious complaints against the governor of Milbank Prison, and representing great abuses in that establishment, both in the management of its affairs, and as regarded cruelty and oppression towards the prisoners. Three years ago, this prison was under the charge of a Committee, but was then placed under the superintendence of the Secretary of State for the Home Department, a governor, and three inspectors. If complaints of the existence of abuses of a serious character were brought forward, therefore, the House ought very jealously to look into the nature of those complaints, and ascertain on what foundation they rested. He would not give all the allegations contained in the petition, but would bring only some of the principal ones before the House. The petitioner was a warder in the prison from September, 1842, till April, 1846; had an unexceptionable character, there being no complaint whatever against him; but, he stated that, in consequence of the oppressive and tyrannical conduct of the governor, Captain Groves, towards prisoners and officers, he was obliged to resign his situation. The petitioner stated, and he was prepared to prove, that the treatment pursued towards prisoners had led to suicides in the
 1433 1434 1435 1436
 MR. GISBORNE  thought the answer given by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goulburn) to the question of the right hon. Member of Weymouth, as to the signing of the contract, was satisfactory; but under all the circumstances of the case, he should feel bound to vote for a Parliamentary inquiry, in order that the public might be satisfied that the Government had done the best for the general interests.
 MR. CHRISTIE  felt a strong impression of the excellence of the arrangement sanctioned by the late Chancellor of the Exchequer; but he had overlooked one strong point in the case. It had been stated, and not denied, that this contract was signed by the late Government two days after they had tendered their resignations, and while only holding office until their successors were appointed; and yet, previous to these resignations, this arrangement, which was known to be in contemplation, had been discussed and disputed in the House, and the Government were asked whether they would undertake that this contract should not be signed until certain Papers then moved for had been laid on the Table. The answer to that question, he believed, was deferred to a subsequent day. It seemed now that the Great Western Company also went to the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) and asked from him an assurance that the contract should not be signed till the House and the public were in possession of further information, and that the noble Lord gave that assurance. This being unexplained, there ought to be a Committee to inquire into the circumstances under which the contract was signed.
 MR. CHRISTIE  said, that if the Motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury was
 1440
 MR. EWART  thought it would be of great advantage if increased responsibility were introduced into the management of the Museum, whether by adding other efficient persons or otherwise. He was happy to see that the visits of the public to institutions such as the British Museum, as well as to Hampton-court and other collections, increased every year. But he wished to address his observations, not to the general conduct of the Museum, but to the particular department of the library. A strong contrast existed between the regulations observed in the public libraries of this country and in those of the Continent. In that of the British Museum a restrictive system existed as regarded applications for admissions, which was very objectionable. He found by the printed regulations that the librarian was precluded from admitting persons unknown to him, except on the recommendation of gentlemen holding some official situation of a public kind; whilst in no other country was any such passport required. He considered it a great evil that in such an enormous town as this
 1445
 MR. EWART  said, the committee had taken a legal opinion, but it would have been much better if they had taken an artistic opinion on the subject. The committee had consulted the subscribers and their architect; but they ought also to have consulted the public taste, which was decidedly against them. He had never heard any person speak well of the site selected by the committee.
 SIR C. NAPIER  admitted that he had listened with great pleasure to the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Admiralty, who had shown a degree of information which was exceedingly creditable to him, and which it was indeed not a little surprising to find in one who had been for so short a time in the department with which he was at present connected. He was really at a loss to think how the hon. Gentleman managed to have concentrated such a mass of information within so brief a period. He had arranged it, too, in a systematic and perspicuous manner; and he (Sir C. Napier) could with truth affirm that a clearer elucidation of the whole system of the navy he had ever heard. He concurred unreservedly in almost every proposition that had fallen from the hon. Gentleman, and particularly approved of what he had said respecting the mode of manning the navy. He was also completely of the same opinion with the hon. Member as to its being exceedingly improper, and, indeed, exceedingly dishonourable to this country, that the naval establishment should ever be in such a condition that in the event of a sudden emergency we should be taken at a disadvantage. Every thing ought certainly to be ready at a moment's warning, so that we might never be taken by surprise. He trusted that the new Board of Admiralty would look vigilantly to the discharge of their duties, and display more zeal and ability than their predecessors in office, of whom, by the way, he was surprised to find that only one had thought it worth his while to be present in his place on the present occasion. The mode of manning the navy was unquestionably a matter of the most serious importance. In the year
 1453 1454 l.; l. 1455 Sidon,
 SIR F. TRENCH  said, his hon. Friend who had opened this case had made a most grievous mistake, for when those no-
 1414 1415 "The decision on the 28th of May was to have an equestrian statue on the arch at the Green Park, if Her Majesty gave permission so to do; and I think if proceedings of this kind are ever to have any validity, or to be binding at all, that if any-think is settled, that resolution that we should have an equestrian statue must be considered as finally settled. I apprehend that we might as well now decide that we would have no memorial at all for the Duke of Wellington, as to question the decision, confirmed as it was by a subsequent meeting of the general committee, that the memorial should be an equestrian statue upon that arch."
 SIR F. TRENCH  being the only member of the sub-committee present could not take upon himself to say what they would do. But he had a strong impression that a majority of the House entertained different impressions from them. All the subscriptions were received for a particular purpose, and he did not think the committee would be justified in appropriating them to any other. But he had no objection, if that would be satisfactory to the House, to lay before the sub-committee what he understood to be the opinion of the majority of the House.
 SIR F. TRENCH  said, the right hon. Gentleman had truly interpreted his feelings. He adhered to his opinions respecting the site, but he would not place his opinion against that of the House. He would state his own opinion freely, that the pedestal and statue on it would have a most magnificent effect. It would be impossible for him without communicating with the committee to make any change or any concession. But if the House would wave the question for the present, so as to give him the opportunity of consulting his colleagues, he would state to them either that it would be desirable to acquiesce in the wishes of the Government, or to put it to the House whether they ought not to have nothing to do with the matter.
 SIR GEORGE COCKBURN  felt, after the statement which had been made by the gallant Officer on his left (Sir C. Napier), that it was quite right he should say a word on the subject. In the first place, it was said that after they (the late Board
 1456 Terrible Devastation 1457 Gomer Devastation;
 SIR GEORGE COCKBURN  said, the arrangements made with the pursers in 1841 was at their own application. The Commission which had been appointed on the subject went into the entire case of these officers, and recommended the additional retiring pay of 1 s.
 SIR G. GREY  explained, that he had not stated that a denial had been given to these charges. He had only said that to each of the sixteen charges a distinct answer and explanation was given. He had abstained from offering any opinion of his own on the matter.
 SIR G. GREY  hoped that before the House agreed to the Motion, they would allow him to state the course that had been pursued in this case. On the 12th of June, his hon. Friend presented the petition of Edward Baker, containing sixteen charges against Captain Groves, the governor of the prison, for misconduct in his office, extending over a period of several years. On the 15th of June, the petition had been printed with the Votes. On the 16th of June, the Secretary of State had directed a letter to be addressed to the Inspectors of Prisons, transmitting to them the petition as printed, and desiring them to institute a full inquiry into its allegations. In obedience to that desire the Inspectors of Prisons had entered upon the inquiry. The governor of the prison was at that time in France; but he immediately returned to assist the inquiry, and a few days before he (Sir G. Grey) had entered upon the duties of his office, the inspectors presented a report to the Home Office, which contained to each of these sixteen charges a distinct answer, furnished by the governor of the prison. It contained, in addition, a complete copy of the evidence taken by the inspectors. His hon. Friend had insisted that the inspectors were not entitled to much consideration, because they invariably adopted the recommendations of the governor. He could not find the least allegation in the petition against the inspectors; and he was sure that the inspectors stood too high in public estimation to be liable to such a charge. Moreover, their reports, which had been constantly presented to the House, as well as their character, would save them from the imputation of being the tools of the governor. He was now prepared to present their report in a complete form to the House; and it would be for the House to consider, upon an examination of the charges, and the answers to them contained in that report, whether they had
 1437 1438
 SIR G. GREY  hoped the hon. and gallant Member would be suffered to proceed. The judgment of the House had been unequivocally expressed, not only by hon. Members who had spoken, but also, and still more strongly, by the absence of any advocacy of the proposed site except that of the hon. and gallant Member. He would admit that after reading the correspondence he had a strong opinion on the subject, and though he might be disposed to go with the hon. and gallant Member to a certain extent, he inferred from the few observations he had just made, that he would be prepared to state to the sub-committee the opinion of the House. It would be unreasonable, under such circumstances, not to listen to the statement of the hon. and gallant Member.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  hoped that his hon. Friend (Mr. Duncombe), who usually took the advice of the hon. Member for Montrose, would hesitate before he took it on that occasion. With his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume), he considered, that but for the
 1439
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  was always anxious for the prosperity of the British navy, and could safely say that he never made an observation tending to lower it in comparison with other navies. The hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Admiralty had gone through the items in a very clear manner, but he had not told them how he intended to apply them. He would wish for information on various matters connected with this subject. He would wish, for instance, to hear how far the scheme, in connexion with the French Government, for the suppression of the Slave Trade, entered into by Her Majesty's late Government, had been successful, comparing the operations of the French cruisers with those of this country. There were, he believed, no treaties between France and the Brazils or Spain, that would warrant the French cruisers in attacking any vessel under the flags of those nations. He would also like to hear what was to be
 1458 s., s., s. s. s. l. l. l. l. l. 1459 Victory,
 MR. M. PHILIPS  did not wish to express any decided opinion, because he was not in possession of sufficient information. He saw the difficulty in which the Government had been placed; and when they entered into a contract for the safety and security of the transmission of letters across the Atlantic by steam communication, they wisely and properly took care to err on the right side, and to choose vessels of proper power and size. Hence arose the first difficulty. A modification of the provisional arrangements, he understood, took place; but there appeared only one party able to conform to the rules and suggestions of the Government, and the contract was accordingly placed in the hands of that individual. He believed that Mr. Cunard had performed his duty to the letter, and the commer-
 1429
 MR. H. G. WARD  said, that as no statement with respect to the Navy Estimates had been made, he trusted to the indulgence of the House whilst he made a short explanation of the different votes; and he must, in justice to the hon. Gentleman whom he had succeeded (Mr. Corry), say, that if it had not been for his kind and liberal assistance, he should not have been able to make himself master of the subject. In the first place, he must remind the House of the precise state of the votes already taken; the first vote for the number of men had passed, and the number had been taken at 40,000; for the wages of these men 900,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l.; l., l. l.; l., l. l.; l. l. l. 1447 l., l. 1448 l. l. l., l., l. l., l. 1449 l. l. l., l. l.; l.; l.; l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1450 l.; l. l. l. s. d. l. s. d., l. l. l. 1451 1452 l.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  remarked, that the great evil, according to the hon. Member for Montrose, was the absence of responsibility in regard to the expenditure of the institution. Now it rested with the Government for the time being to consider the Estimates, and to decide upon all recommendations made by the trustees; in every instance the responsibility remained with the Treasury. His hon. Friend said, the Museum was only open on three days of the week; but he contended, that it was open on five days, for his hon. Friend could not say that the artists, and others who visited the institution for various objects, were not a portion of the public. So far from the regulation with respect to Tuesdays and Thursdays being objectionable, he contended that it was desirable, for the interests of the public, that artists should have facilities for attending the Museum on those days. With respect to the age of visitors admitted, there must be some limit. His hon. Friend who spoke last had said there was great difficulty in obtaining admission to the library; but he thought it evident, from the list of persons with whom was deposited the privilege of granting recommendations to applicants, that sufficient facilities in this respect existed. He thought he might apply to the British Museum the remarks which Charles II. had made upon the climate of England—that there were more days in the year, and more hours in the day, during which a man could be in the open air than in any other country. So the British Museum was open for more days in the year, and more hours in the day, he believed, than any similar institution of equal magnitude in a foreign country. Could his hon. Friend find that any such number as 64,000 persons in one year had been admitted into any of the foreign libraries to which he alluded? He believed, that no man in Paris ever knew a fourth of the number. The visitors to the Museum had increased thirty to one since 1820; there were now three times as many as six or eight years ago. A shorter interval elapsed, he believed, in the production of books re-
 1446
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  thought the House was not in a condition at present to decide whether or not there should be a Committee, and he should support the Government.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, his single difficulty was that the Queen had given Her consent to a particular point, and that the House of Commons, if they adopted the Motion, would ask Her Majesty to withdraw that consent. But the House had the right to say— Rex male advisatus est; 1416 seriatim,
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  would not enter into the general question; but there was nothing in the proposition of the noble Lord the Member for Lynn which would at all interfere with the ultimate decision of the House on the proposition of the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown. The Bill did not omit the usual clause, that it might be amended or repealed, in the present Session of Parliament; and if it were not amended or repealed, the only effect would be that it would give to the Government a little more time for consideration, and to the trade a little more breathing time. The proposition could do no harm in his own view of the case; and if the Government were to have the triumphant majority of which they boasted (though he
 1407
 SIR R. PEEL  sincerely hoped that no objection would be made to the appointment of this Committee. He should decidedly vote for inquiry. The Treasury gave this contract to Mr. Cunard, not only because they felt that he, a person without any interest whatever, had strong claims on the Treasury for rendering important public service, but also because they thought that at the period at which the original contract was entered into, engagements were formed which entitled Mr. Cunard to this indulgence. It was said that the contract was signed after the resignation of the late Ministers had been tendered; but it must be borne in mind that they had all the power to conduct the public business, and, the contract being made, there was an obligation in honour to sign it. He was perfectly confident that the Government succeeding the late Government would, had the contract been left unsigned, have signed it, under the impression that the public faith was pledged thereto. It was a mere formality whether the late or the present Lords of the Treasury executed the deed; but it would have been a shabby act in the late Government to shrink from the responsibility of signing the contract, leaving that duty to the hon. Gentlemen opposite, who might be unaware of all the circumstances which had previously taken place. Even supposing that there had been an error, he was sure that that House would respect public faith, and take care that Mr. Cunard should not be a sufferer; and of this he was perfectly certain, that if in any case any sort of question should arise out of a public contract, it was the duty of
 1430
 LORD CLEMENTS  hoped it would be an instruction to the Committee to consider whether it would not be preferable to have the packets to Halifax start from the western coast of Ireland—the nearest point to America.
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  said, the works would be entirely stopped until the committee had signified their assent to the suggestions of the Government, or, failing that, until the opinion of the House had been taken upon it.
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  said, with respect to his own private judgment, from which even official responsibility could not separate him, he partook to the full in the misgivings which had been expressed by the two hon. Gentleman, and by his two noble predecessors in the office which he had the honour to fill, and which, he believed, he might add, had been backed by very many and competent professional authorities; and, although they found that the consent and authority of the preceding Government had been signified to the persons who wished to erect this statue, to place it in the situation proposed, and that some progress had been made in the actual work, and some expense already incurred; yet he confessed that, even at that moment, he did wish very much that those who represented the subscribers could persuade themselves to accede to the offer made to them by the Government, to pro-
 1413
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  said, the hon. and gallant Member had met the feeling
 1417
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, that the noble Lord at the head of the Government would take the matter into his earliest consideration.
 MR. O'CONNELL  referred to a report he had seen in the newspapers, that the supply of food by the Government in Ireland was to cease on the 15th of August. He wished to be informed what truth there might be in this statement, or whether Ministers had any intention to stop the supply of food at the date specified? If such a notion were to get abroad, he feared it would be received in Ireland with the deepest dissatisfaction. Nothing could have been conducted with greater wisdom and discretion than the supply of food by the late Government.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I saw in the papers of this morning the report to which the hon. and learned Member has referred, namely, that the supply of provisions would be stopped on the 15th of August. Relief has been afforded in Ireland, partly by means of employment given by the public, partly by employment given by persons residing in the neighbourhood, and partly by the Government, which furnished supplies of food in different districts of the country. We are in hopes that the last may, for the most part, be stopped on the 15th of August. I entirely concur in what has been said by the hon. and learned Member on the beneficial effects of the relief afforded; and from all the accounts I have received since I had the honour of holding the situation I now fill, I can bear my testimony to the excellent manner in which aid was given, so as to save the people almost from famine, and to preserve the peace of the country. At the same time I must observe, that this was a measure calculated to meet temporary and urgent distress; but that it may grow into an evil of no small magnitude, if it be converted into anything like a permanent system. If the people are taught to rely upon the Government for a supply of food, it will become not only a great but a growing evil. I have, I am sorry to say, some proof of the beginning of a feeling of the kind in Ireland; and it is, therefore, essentially necessary to have it clearly understood that it is not the intention to turn that which was a temporary remedy into a permanent system. We are in hopes that
 30 31
 MR. O'CONNELL  said, the early crop of potatoes had been nearly lost; the hope founded upon this prospect had therefore been disappointed. It seemed to him absolutely necessary not to discontinue the supplies hitherto afforded, at all events until the latter end of September. The present Government had nothing to do but to follow the excellent example of their predecessors, with the same readiness to relieve cases of distress.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  replied, that the present Secretary for the Home Department had found in his office a Bill prepared for the purpose referred to, in order that the Courts of Westminster should be opened to the whole profession. He was happy to be able to state that such a measure was fully approved of by the present Government, and that he would undertake to introduce it, though of course he could not promise that it should be in the present Session.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : With regard to the question of the hon. Member for Montrose, I have to reply, that it is the intention of Government, ere long, to lay on the Table a number of papers explanatory of all that has been done in affording relief to the people of Ireland. Government is also per-
 32 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I hope it is needless for me to express to my noble Friend my conviction that in the course he has taken this evening he is not actuated by a desire to embarrass Her Majesty's Government. I have been opposed during great part of this Session to my noble Friend, and I never for a moment ceased to give credit to him for the entire sincerity by which he was actuated in the course he has pursued, which I believe that he has pursued only because he considered it to be that which was best calculated to promote the interests of the country. I have not now the slightest intention of questioning the grounds on which he has come forward this evening in opposition to the measure of Her Majesty's Government; I give him full credit for the purity of the motives which actuate him and his friends in the course they take, and anxious as I am to show that the arguments on which they rely are destitute of foundation, I, nevertheless, will not dispute for a moment the fairness of their intentions. In discussing this question, I think it will be convenient to follow the course that has been adopted by my noble Friend, and I shall therefore take the division of the subject that he has made. My noble Friend said that the question resolved itself into three parts—the question of the supply of sugar; the question of the revenue; and the bearings of the whole question as affecting the Slave Trade. Now, Sir, to begin with the supply of sugar. About two years ago the right hon. Gentleman who preceded me in the office which I have now the honour to hold, stated, in this place, when he brought forward a measure for the introduction of free-labour sugar into this country (and he stated more forcibly than I shall venture to do), the all-importance of a due supply of sugar in this country. The right hon. Gentleman stated, that from a luxury sugar had become almost a necessary of life to the people of England, and that he was anxious, by legislative measures, to do what was possible to make it more plentiful. He stated that in former times all the ships carrying sugar to the north of Europe came to this country; that England had the command of the sugar of the world limited only by the price of sugar in the continental markets, if it was not wanted here. He told us that it had become necessary when the supply from the West Indies became deficient, in order to increase the supply here,
 55 s. d. s. s. s. d. 56 l. l. s. d. s. d., 57 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d.; s. d.; 58 59 "The cultivation and manufacture of sugar by Europeans is increasing considerably; and though your market does not look so promising as it has done, we think the exports of 1816 may be expected to exceed those of 1845, though not to a very great extent." "It should be borne in mind, however, that India consumes its own sugars to an immense amount, probably not less than 500,000 tons: and if, from the introduction of slave-labour sugar into England, at low duties, or from any other cause, prices of fine sugar here should fall below eight rupees or so for export, we should probably soon cease to supply you with any but a very insignificant quantity." 60 61 s. s. s.; s. s., s. s. s. d.; s. d. d. s. d. s. s. d., s. d., s. d. s.; s. d., s. d., s. 62 s. s. The Times s. d. "The effect of such a measure as  The Times s. s. s. d. "Allow me also to state, that 21 s. s. d. s. 63 64 "We have had another month of depression in this market, almost without a precedent for dulness and paucity of transactions. Notwithstanding the fine prospects of an early and abundant harvest, trade continues embarrassed, and a restlessness and apprehension everywhere apparent, which checks improvement, and almost debars the hope of any favourable change during the remaining part of the year." 65 
 
 £ 
 Total Income for the year 1846–7, at 51,650,000 
 Deduct China money 700,000 
 Estimated permanent Income 50,950,000 
 
 The Expenditure at 50,873,540 
 Deduct an expenditure comprised in his Estimate, which may not be required again 200,000 
 50,673,540 
 
 Portion of expense of the Irish constabulary now defrayed by Irish counties, to be hereafter charged on Consolidated Fund 175,000 
 Deferred Estimate for a quarter of a year on account of certain army and ordnance services 283,000 
 Voted for half a year only in Estimates of 1846–7:— 
 Half a year's expenditure for auditors, schoolmasters, and medical officers of Poor Law unions 61,500 
 Half year's expense of prosecutions 60,000 
 Ditto, Ireland 9,000 
 Half year's expense of maintaining prisoners under sentence of felony 40,000 
 628,500 
 Total future permanent Expenditure 51,302,040 
 Deficiency 352,040 
 50,950,000 l. l.; l. 66 
 
 Estimates. 1835. 1845. Increase. 
 £ £ £ 
 Charges on Consolidated Fund, other than Debt 2,106,000 2,598,000 492,000 
 Army, Navy, and Ordnance 11,657,000 15,664,000 4,007,000 
 Miscellaneous Services 2,144,000 2,726,000 582,000 l. l., 67 68 "He was also prepared to deny that the present measure would render the renewal of the income tax at the end of three more years inevitable. He would not then go into the question as to the continuance of the property tax; but he could not help observing that it must excite some curiosity as to what made the noble Lord suggest, three years beforehand, such a strong opinion as to the non-removal of the property tax at the end of three years." l. l.; l. 69 s., l.; s., l.; l.; l.; l. s. s. 70 l. 71 "I should wish to see this subject better explained, because, for my part, I do not see what difference the entry or non-entry of our sugar for consumption in England would make to us Brazilians. I do not see that at the close of the crops any remains to be sold; but, on the contrary, there are always more purchasers than sugar. If, therefore, we have foreign and English capital in our ports always ready to buy our sugar, what need we care where we carry it? Naturally, they will take it to the best market; and if English legislators do not wish the English people to consume sugar so cheap as the other nations of Europe, what is that to us? The English admit Brazilian and American cotton because they want it; and yet it is planted and collected by slaves. What inconsistency in human nature! At one time wishing to appear humane, at another disregarding humanity when self-interests are at stake! Who, therefore, has reason to complain of the non-admission of sugar for consumption? It is the English themselves, through their legislators not consenting that they should purchase sugar so cheap as other nations. According to what I see also, the people to be benefited in case of the admission of the sugar, would be the English themselves alone; because they would save the commissions and freights, &c., which they now pay to the foreign vessels for taking the sugar to the ports of Europe; the returns of the sales of their merchandise would go direct to them; they would profit a great deal by the employment of their shipping, by store, rent, &c. Sugar would go to the ports of Europe and even to England, without any necessity for a misunderstanding upon a point really so imaginary for us, and which would only benefit manufacturers themselves, the English merchants and their shipping; and in course of time, perhaps, if sugars should be admitted, England might become the depot for ours, and the European nations would go there to buy it, instead of coming to Brazil. Hence, perhaps, we should lose that concurrence of foreigners in our markets which we now have; and, therefore, I am doubtful whether we should gain anything by the admission of our sugar for consumption in England. For a long time I have wondered how it is that England has consented that the transport of Brazil sugar should be monopolized by foreign vessels, when the capital employed for loading the same is, for the greater part, English, she being so watchful in affairs regarding her commerce and navigation; but the blindness of that party to whom the English islands are mortgaged is such, and their influence so great in the English Legislative Chambers, that the Executive Government does not dare to propose the admission of sugar; and the manufacturers and merchants have not sufficient influence in the Chambers to obtain it.
 72 73 "That this society cannot but express their decided impression that by the maintenance of the course of policy hitherto pursued, the influence of the British Government over other nations will be ineffectual for the objects in view, and that the measures proposed by the Ministers of the Crown, which are in harmony with the general principles of commercial policy pursued by the late Administration, taken in connexion with friendly negotiations with other Powers, and, as this society believe, with the successful issue of the experiment about to be made by the West India Colonies, will be more effectual to put down slavery and the Slave Trade than any other means." 74 s. 75 76 77
 SIR T. ACLAND  expressed his extreme regret that the right hon. Baronet should have placed the question now before them solely upon consideration of the state of parties in that House, and the way in which Government would be affected by their particular vote—the very last consideration which ought to influence them. He (Sir T. Acland) begged to disclaim, in the strongest manner, any wish to give a vote which would imply hostility to his noble Friend opposite (Lord J. Russell) or his Government. He believed their intentions, as regarded their general course of policy, were moderate, and he was prepared to give them a fair trial; but he thought it unfortunate that his right hon. Friend (Sir R. Peel) should have placed the decision of this particular question on party grounds. He admitted that the considerations to which his right hon. Friend had referred in the latter part of his speech, always entered more or less into the decision of every great question; but this might be carried too far. If no adverse vote ought to be given for fear of affecting the existence of a Government, where was the use of their sitting there in deliberation at all? He took leave to say that this applied to both sides of the House, and that it applied, and had applied, with much greater force since the passing of the Reform Bill. They took the mass of the public into their confidence, when by that Act they made a wider constituency; and after that, was it to be expected that the leaders of parties were to dispose of their general policy or party principles in the way they used to do in former times? And if they consulted public opinion, it would never do for that House to govern their proceedings by considerations of displacing this or that Government. For himself he would give his vote upon the whole consideration of the
 104
 MR. G. F. BERKELEY  said, the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had maintained that the supply of sugar from our West Indian Colonies had failed; but what had been the cause of that failure? It arose from the circumstance that the labour which would enable the colonists to produce a supply of sugar for this country had been taken from them, and it was totally impossible for them to obtain an adequate supply of labour. His right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated that it was necessary the price of sugar in this country should be as low as possible. What, then, was the most legitimate mode of reducing the price of that article?—by admitting the produce of slave States, or by enabling the West Indian body to produce a supply in our own Colonies? His right hon. Friend had also stated that he did not expect any large importations of sugar from our East In-
 86 87
 MR. JAMES S. WORTLEY  wished to put a question of some importance in connection with the administration of justice in the Courts of Westminster Hall. It was generally known that the practice in the Court of Common Pleas was confined to the serjeants; but during Earl Grey's Government a warrant was issued by the Crown to open that court to all barristers. On argument before the Privy Council, it was however held that that warrant was insufficient without the intervention of Parlinment. He believed that the late Government had been prepared to introduce a measure to give effect to the warrant; and he apprehended he was correct also in saying that it had the sanction of the late Chief Justice of the Common Pleas. He wished to be informed, therefore, whether Her Majesty's present Ministers entertained the same views and intentions?
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said, that in moving the Resolution which was in the hands of the Speaker, as an Amendment to the Motion for the right hon. Gentleman's leaving the chair, he must take leave, whilst he asked the indulgence of the House, first to express his deep regret that the Motion should not have fallen into abler hands. He felt deeply the responsibility of having had intrusted to him the advocacy of the interests of those great mercantile speculators in the East and West Indies, as well as that other great cause which was connected with the slavery of the African race. He regretted as deeply that their vindication should have fallen into the hands of a feebler advocate than any they had ever before the misfortune to possess. In bringing forward this Motion, he was confident that his noble Friend at the head of the Government would give him credit for truth, when he
 33 34 s. s. s. 35 36 "Since 1844, in this district alone, nineteen engines of 240-horse power have been erected, and fifteen more of 180-horse power are now in the course of erection; so that the quantity of sugar manufactured has this season amounted to 2,000 tons, and that expected next year is from 8,000 to 9,000 tons." l. "The shipments from Calcutta this season will exceed those of last year; but it will be late before they arrive, as the exporters will hang back till August. There would be no difficulty in bringing twenty thousand maunds. The new sugar is looking well." "From the day I joined the concern I have embarked 8,000 l., l.; l. i. e. 37 l., l. 38 l. s. l. s. 39 s. l. s. l. s. s. s. 40 l. l., s. s. d. 41 l. l. l. l. s. d. l., 42 s. l. l. s. l. l. l. l. l. l. Gazette. 43 44 s. "The question is, cheap sugar with slavery, or dearer sugar without it. It is nothing else than the repetition of the children's fable—the large loaf and the father's curse. It is a farce to propose to let in the sugar of Cuba and the Brazils, and at the same time to propose or to continue emancipation." 45 l. l. s. l. l. l. l. l.; 46 l.; l. "If, then, you ask me why—the interest of the English consumer being thus secured—I am anxious for the admission of slave-grown produce, I reply that I am so anxious because I believe there is great efficacy in the carrying out of a true principle; that there is in commercial legislation only one true principle, that understood by the expression 'Free trade.'" "That men have thus placed themselves in opposition to what we have a fair right to believe is the intention of Providence in giving different climates and various productions to the nations of the earth; and that it is amongst our first duties to aid, so far as we know and can understand them, and not to thwart, or attempt to thwart, the designs of the Great Parent of the Universe." 47 Kentucky Kentucky "There were about 500 slaves in all on board the brig. Of these about one dozen died on the passage; and about forty-six men and one woman were hung and shot on the passage. 440 or thereabouts were landed at Cape Frio. When the slaves came on board, they were put below between the slave deck, and all were ironed." 48 "When the slaves came on board they were ironed and sent down below to the slave deck. A bulkhead was run across the midships, and the women and children were placed aft. There were about 250 of them. When it was fair weather a good many of the slaves were permitted to come upon deck, and they remained there night and day. When it was stormy, they were all sent down below. It was intended that there should be 700 of them; but they could not be got together. The day after the vessel sailed—when she crossed the bar of the river, and got out to sea, the negroes got off their irons, broke the bulkhead, and rose on the officers and crew of the brig. Some of them got on the forecastle, some of them aft. The captain armed the crew with cutlasses, and gave them loaded pistols; and the crew and officers then commenced firing down among those in the hold, and continued to do so for more than half an hour." "Those who were thus executed were heavily ironed; a rope was then put round their neck, which was rove through the yard-arm, and they were run up from the deck. By this means they were not hanged—they were strangled or choked. In that state, and while still alive, they were shot in the breast, and then thrown overboard. If there were two shot or hanged together, they were run up in the same manner until their legs were laid across the rail of the bulwark on the ship's side, and then they were broken and chopped off to save the irons. In this way the bleeding body of the negro was thrown overboard to make room for another. The legs of about a dozen were
 49 l. l. 50 l. l. 51 l. in toto 52 l. l. s. s. s. s. 53 l. l. l. "To leave out from the word 'That' to the end of the Question, in order to add the words, 'in the present state of the Sugar cultivation in the British East and West Indian Possessions, the proposed reduction of Duty upon Foreign Slave grown Sugar is alike unjust and impolitic, as tending to check the advance of production by British free labour, and to give a great additional stimulus to the Slave Trade,' instead thereof."
 MR. FRENCH  referred to the Grand Jury Presentment Bill passed in the present Session, by which 100,000 l.
 MR. G. W. HOPE  had no interest either in the West or East Indies, and the only information he had on the subject was obtained when he held his late official appointment. But having seen the working of emancipation in the West India Colonies, and the exertions lately made by the planters there, he felt bound to declare his belief that they were not fairly open to the reproaches made against them of want of energy; for nothing could have exceeded their activity during the last three years, in their endeavours to overcome the difficulties of their position. The hon. Baronet who had just sat down had truly stated the position in which the planters had been placed by the effects of our legislation. Holding such opinions, he could not but wish that the hon. Baronet had declared he would follow them up by a corresponding vote. He (Mr. Hope) meant to vote against this measure, believing that towards the West Indian Colonies it was one of great severity, not to say of extreme injustice. It came, too, at the very time when the reviving energies of the colonists appeared likely to produce the most favourable results. It should be remembered that the Emancipation Act created one of the most remarkable revolutions in the history of society. It did not merely convert the slaves into free men, it at once made them masters. The immediate consequences had been such as much to interfere with the prosperity of those islands. But of late there had been much activity. It was a remarkable fact, that an increased rate of wages had gone on with an
 92 status 93
 MR. HUME  understood that it would be most convenient for him to put the questions of which he had given notice, not to the First Lord of the Treasury, but to the Lord Advocate of Scotland. He would ask them—"Whether it be the intention of Her Majesty's Government to give effect to the recommendations contained in the several reports made by the Royal Commissioners appointed by Lord Grey's Government in 1833, and continued by that of Lord Melbourne until 1838, having instructions to inquire into and report to the House as to the efficiency of the Courts of Law in Scotland?—Whether it be the intention of the Government to carry out, at an early period, the special report made by the above Commission, pointing out the expediency of revising and improving the laws which regulate the transfer of mortgage of land and house property in Scotland?—And whether it be the intention of the Government to take measures for im-
 29
 MR. HUME  wished to be informed whether there would be any objection speedily to lay upon the Table an account of the manner in which assistance had been afforded—whether in the shape of provisions or employment?
 MR. P. SCROPE  was anxious to ascertain, another point. Did Government intend to lay upon the Table an account of the contributions by private parties in aid of the object of Government? What had been done by the relief committees in various districts to alleviate distress? Would that information, if supplied, be in sufficient detail to enable the public to understand whether the contributions by individuals were at all in proportion to the means they possessed, and the amount of their property? It would have considerable influence in deciding whether in the present year the relief ought to be continued.
 SIR J. W. HOGG  wished to explain his reasons for supporting the Resolutions of the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell). When he saw the Resolutions, his desire was to afford to the people of this country an abundant supply of good and cheap sugar, and at the same time to adopt measures calculated to discourage and perhaps lead to the discontinuance of slave-grown sugar. That was his intention in 1841, and it was now his desire. Five years had since elapsed, and the question he asked himself was this—had his intention been carried into effect?—had his anticipations been realized?—had the measure which wes then passed been attended with the success which was contemplated, and did it produce the results they desired? If he found that this measure had failed in producing the results then contemplated, he should be ashamed to rise in his place in that House to urge upon that assembly the adoption of measures which had been tried, and which had signally failed. He asked, did the measures then adopted afford to the people of the country an adequate supply of sugar? He need not argue the point. The calculation of the noble Lord opposite—the medium calculation of the noble Lord as to the sugar expected to arrive in this country, was almost  totidem verbis 88 89 90 91 à priori
 SIR R. INGLIS  thanked the noble Lord the Member for Lynn for the practical and temperate Resolution which he had proposed for the adoption of the House, and he thanked him equally for the speech with which he had introduced it—a speech so comprehensive in details and abounding in facts—in which, too, every fact was an argument in itself—a speech on which, for his own part, he could have been content to have rested the decision of this question. But as it was not the custom of that House that battles should be decided by single combatants, he trusted that, considering how long he had taken a warm interest in this subject, he might be permitted to say a few words upon it on the present occasion. He must say that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer appeared to him to be, during the great portion of the speech, a Chancellor of the Exchequer anticipating the budget of the next year. He could not help fancying, while he was speaking, that they had arrived at about the 10th of May next, and listening to the very melancholy statement, he feared it would be the right hon. Gentleman's duty then to pronounce. He said that they wanted 350,000 l. per fas aut nefas, 78 79 80 81
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, the House will probably recollect—it has indeed been adverted to by the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord G. Bentinck)—that at an early period of the present Session I announced the intention of the late Government to propose a measure with reference to the admission of foreign sugar, based on different principles from that which the noble Lord has proposed. The proposal which I intended to make on the part of the Government, was intended to give greater facilities and encouragement to the admission of free-labour sugar; and I have no hesitation in saying, that had that Government remained in office, the proposal which I should have made would have been identical with that which I announced in the early part of the Session. That measure, so proposed on the part of the Government, would have continued the exclusion from the markets of this country of sugar the produce of slave labour; but it would have admitted at lower rates of duty than the present, foreign sugar which is the produce of free labour, in competition with sugar the produce of our own possessions. And, Sir, having made that announcement, it is not without the greatest hesitation that I have come to a conclusion as to the vote which it will be my duty to give on the present occasion. I and those with whom I acted, always felt this question of slave labour, and the produce of slave labour, to be an exception from the principles which ought to govern our ordinary commercial policy. I thought we stood in a peculiar relation to our West India Colonies. The case of the East Indies differs materially in respect to the supply of labour from the West India Colonies. In the case of those Colonies you had emancipated from slavery the negroes on whose labour, in former years, the colonists had mainly relied for the supply of this country with West India produce. You had given to the holders of slaves a liberal, and, estimating it as to pecuniary amount, apparently a munificent compensation for the sacrifice of their property; but, however large that sum may have been, whether it was an adequate compensation for the eventual loss sustained, is a matter open to considerable doubt. Be that, however, as it may, you did subject the West India Colonies to great disadvantages in competing with those countries where slavery
 94 95 d. d. l. 96 97 98 99 100 status quo "That in the present state of the sugar cultivation in the British East and West India possessions the proposed reduction of duty upon foreign slave-grown sugar is alike unjust and impolitic, as tending to check the advance of production by British free labour, and to give a great additional stimulus to the Slave Trade." 101 102 bonâ fide 103
 VISCOUNT SANDON  should not feel himself entitled to follow any other course than that which his hon. Friend (Sir R. H. Inglis) had chalked out for himself, if he took the same view of the proposition now before the House. The position of
 82 83 84 85 l. l.
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  lamented the lateness of the period at which so important a measure had been introduced. And he the more regretted it because the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel), whose speech had really been in favour of the Amendment proposed by the noble Lord (Lord G. Bentinck), had ascribed to the present position of parties in the House his inability to give effect to his own opinions, and to vote in accordance with them. The vote, however, which he (the Marquess of Granby) was about to give, was wholly uninfluenced by party considerations one way or the other, and was not against the Government, but against the measure. He should vote against it on the grounds of protection to our Colonies, and of the prevention of slavery—grounds closely connected, and not easily separated; for protection had been rendered requisite to our Colonies by the Legislature of this country; and on account of measures adopted with laudable objects, but not the less injurious to our colonists—and not the less entitling them to protection. "Sir (said the noble Marquess), I should like to know what the constituencies of this country—what the nations of the world must think of our conduct, if we, who at a time when the interests of humanity and of our own Colonies appeared to be in opposition, said the 'interests of humanity must be paramount' — 'perish the Colonies — perish the interests of our consumers, if they are against the claims of humanity!'—what can be thought of us, if now, when the interests of humanity and of our colonists are identical—now when the colonists are calling on us not to admit slave-grown sugar — we are deaf to their demands? Can anything be conceived more inconsistent or more unjust? As to the argument of having sugar a halfpenny a pound cheaper, that cannot weigh with a country which expended twenty millions to eradicate the evils of slavery. Then it is said, that because we admit slave-grown cotton, coffee, &c.,
 120 121
 MR. HOPE  begged to offer a few observations upon the subject. It should indeed probably be expected that he should not remain silent whilst it was under discussion. He was indeed compelled to offer some explanation. He must complain of the terms in which the hon. Gentleman had clothed his question. He had in fact made it a sort of speech for which he had obtained a place upon the books of the House, and a speech too to which no reply could by any possibility be made. He (Mr. Hope) should say that the hon. Gentleman had made use of a most improper, or rather he should probably have called it an indiscreet exercise of his power. It was not only an unfair mode of proceeding, but the allegations were unfounded in fact. The Land Bill, introduced by his noble Friend (Lord Stanley), and which had been opposed by his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies, in an Anti-Corn Law speech, had for its object the reserving to the Crown its rights over all mines and minerals under the land sold to the colonists. For reasons totally unconnected with those alleged in opposition to it, that Bill was withdrawn. But the opinions of the law officers of the Crown were first taken with regard to the rights of the Crown, and they were clearly of opinion that those rights were sufficiently good and clear to render such an Act unnecessary. In the regulations for the future arrangements, all, therefore, that his noble Friend (Lord Stanley) had done, was to declare the rights of the Crown reserved, but without seeking to do so by the authority of a declaratory Act of Parliament.
 MR. BERNAL  was anxious to detail the true state of the circumstances and situation in which the plan of the Government would place the Colonies, and point out certain salient points in it which were deserving of the serious consideration of the House. In what he was about to say he should commit nobody but himself, as he was no longer a member of the committee of West India proprietors. With respect to the term of years to be given the West
 128 s. d. 129 130
 MR. JAMES  said, he had not the good fortune to hear the speech of the noble Lord, developing his plan for the settlement of this important question; but, after an attentive perusal of it, he came to the conclusion,
 136 s. d. s. d. s. s. 137 l. l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, in rising towards the close of this debate to address some observations to the House, I must, in the first place, most willingly declare that my noble Friend, whether in the Motion that he has made, or whether in the speech with which he prefaced that Motion, has not proposed anything or said anything of which I personally can have the least reason to complain. The noble Lord, no doubt believing in the truth of his own principles, has declared his opposition to the plan of the Government, and has asked this House, in a Parliamentary Resolution, to declare its opinion on the subject. But, Sir, that Resolution does affirm principles which, I think, go far beyond the condemnation of the immediate plan before the House. I could understand my noble Friend, however, saying this is a very late period of the Session; it is impossible to alter the whole system of your Sugar Duties without considering other questions which are involved in it; let us have further time for consideration; we, therefore, must vote against the adoption of the plan before us; but we shall be ready at the commencement of another Session to take that or any other plan which the Government may have matured, into consideration. I can well understand that that course might have been taken by my noble Friend, and he might indeed have been supported in it by a majority of the House, and the Government might still think themselves justified in continuing to administer the affairs of this country. Sir, the course which my noble Friend has taken is widely different from that. It declares, in the first place, as I think, an adherence on the part of this House to the principles of commercial protection. It declares, in the next place, that the plan before the House is calculated to give a stimulus to the Slave Trade. It altogether condemns, upon those two allegations, the whole plan which has been submitted to the consideration of this House of Parliament. Sir, I will endeavour, in the first place, to touch upon some few of those topics to which my noble Friend adverted, and which the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just sat down has repeated, and I
 171 172 173 174 "That freedom is served by the admission of slave-labour produce, and not by the exclusion of it. They are of opinion that free labour, when brought into competition with slave labour, can be made much more productive and profitable than otherwise. They cannot but regard the system of a continuance of protection duties upon free labour as a virtual and practical declaration that that argument is foolish and untenable. They believe that sugar will be successfully produced by free labour, and thereby the most convincing lesson will be exhibited to slaveholding countries that their true interests are inseparably connected with the immediate and entire renunciation of this odious system." "To undersell the produce of slave labour by the produce of free labour, is the only good evidence of economy that will have any practical influence in discouraging the former. Without that they believe that all our efforts will be useless, and will be equally unnecessary. The simple plan to adopt for the abolition of slavery is to render its continuance unprofitable by cheaper productions, and to destroy the demand for slaves by affording an abundant supply of free labour. That remedy has not as yet been tried, and it is now for the first time attempted. If it be fully carried out, it will afford the most certain prospect of success." 175 s., s. 176 177 178 179 180
 MR. A. OSWALD  wished to address a few words to the House, as he was about to give a different vote to the one he had given last year on this question. The noble Lord's Amendment appeared to be grounded on two reasons: first, the injustice and impolicy of taking from the West Indian Colonies their existing protection; and, secondly, that the proposition of the Government would give encouragement to the Slave Trade. Now, with respect to the first point, the noble Lord's Amendment did not hold out to the West India body any hope of permanent protection, and being of opinion that the greatest evil that could befall them was the continuance of uncertainty, and the making their interest a bone of contention or rallying point between two factions, he must say he thought a settlement of the measure was extremely desirable. Not only so, but looking at what had lately happened in that House, and seeing that protection to agriculture had been withdrawn by the act of the Legislature, he confessed he thought they must be prepared to abandon with it all protection whether to our domestic or colonial interests. He was told the noble Lord (Lord G. Bentinck) and his party were prepared to restore to agriculture the protection it had lost. No doubt they were sincere in their intentions; but he thought a little time would cool their ardour: should it fail to do so, he was convinced the defeat they would soon meet with would be signal. He had paid great attention to the noble Lord's statements respecting the decreased protection to our West Indian Colonies; but he could not draw the same inference from them. The noble Lord stated that the loss the Colonies had sustained by the withdrawal of protection since the abolition of slavery amounted to 750,000 l.; l., 122 l. l. l.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the noble Lord who moved the Amendment to the Motion that you leave the chair, proposed to himself to establish three points for the consideration of the House. The first was, that this country has legitimate sources for the supply of all the sugar necessary for its consumption; the second, that the calculations of revenue under the Resolutions proposed by Her Majesty's Ministers were erroneous; and the third, that if we adopt these Resolutions, we should be stimulating that traffic in slaves which this House has so often and so indignantly reprobated. Sir, I have listened with great attention to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, a Member of the Cabinet, who has affected to give an answer to the speech of the noble Lord the Member for Lynn. I have not been inattentive to any of the addresses which followed the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer; and though it may be some of those speeches are remarkable for characteristics and circumstances, not bearing any relation to the subject immediately before us, still, looking at the speeches affecting to discuss this question which followed in the wake of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, I can find no answer to the speech of my noble Friend. The Chancellor of the Exchequer appears to me, with regard to the first proposition of the noble Lord the Member for Lynn, to have opposed to it an assumption; to have encountered the second proposition with an hypothesis; and he supposes he has vanquished
 148 149 150 151 "Many mercantile men were surprised at the abatement of the West India duties and the admission of East India sugar on equal terms, but that those resolutions would benefit the country at large, and open a boundless market among the lower classes of Hindoos, many of whom had never seen a piece of cotton cloth in the whole course of their lives." 152 s. l. 153 l., l. 154 155 156 157 158 ductor dubitantium, 159 l., 160 161 in vacuo 162 163 versus 164 ignis fatuus, 165 l. l. l. 166 peccavi. litera vera resumé 167 l. l., 168 forte 169 quasi quasi 170
 MR. HAWES  said, that it would appear that some regulations had been authorized to be forwarded.
 MR. HAWES  replied, that the last despatches received did not come down to a sufficiently late date to enable him to answer the inquiry. As to the regulations, however, it would be for the Secretary
 114
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  would have been content to rest his vote on the statement of his noble Friend who introduced this Motion, and on the speech of his right hon. Friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) in defence of the Bill; but there were some points which pressed themselves on his mind, and on which he wished to make a few observations. He never could forget that he was one of those who voted for the emancipation of the slaves in our Colonies; that measure had had a greater effect on private fortunes than any legislative measure in the history of this country—a great responsibility lay on the promoters of it. And if there was one thing more than another that the Legislature ought to guard against, looking to the interests of humanity in their widest range, to the fate of the negro race throughout the world, to the force of the example of this country, to its moral influence, as well as to its material interests, it was this—that that great experiment should not be a failure. What had recently occurred in that House with respect to free trade? They had heard Minister after Minister declare that treaties and tariffs had failed, and would fail, and that we must show other nations by our example that free
 131 "That the number of slavers had increased from 70 to 150, and that for every cargo formerly carried over the sea, two cargoes, or twice the number in one cargo, wedged together in a mass of living corruption, are now borne on the waves of the Atlantic." "Under such circumstances, to repress the foreign Slave Trade by a marine guard would scarcely be possible, if the whole British navy could be employed for the purpose. It is an evil which can never be adequately encountered by any system of mere prohibition and penalty." "The activity of the increased squadron, and especially the addition of effective steam vessels, has, without doubt, had a considerable effect on the number of captures; still, however, we believe that the Slave Trade is increasing, and that it is conducted, perhaps, more systematically than it has ever been hitherto." 132 "The importation of African slaves has not diminished; the capital employed in these illicit transactions augments;" and that "the risk is so subdivided amongst several vessels, held in shares, that the capture of four vessels would not subject them to loss provided the fifth was successful in landing slaves." "The ships of all classes employed for the suppression of the Slave Trade and estimate of charge for the public, for 1842, were, ships, 58; guns, 945; men, 8,554. 
 
 Total expense £575,466 
 Add for liberated Africans for the last six years, average 25,000 
 £600,466 
 Mixed Commission Courts, about 10,000 
 £610,466 133 Eclair: "The  Eclair Styx "That the principal causes of diminished production and consequent distress are—the great difficulty which has been experienced by the planters in obtaining steady and continuous labour, and the high rate of remuneration which they give for the broken and indifferent work which they are able to procure; and, that one obvious and most desirable mode of endeavouring to compensate for this diminished supply of labour is to promote the immigration of a fresh labouring population to such an extent as to create competition for employment." 
 "1. Whether there was any considerable materials for a free emigration from Africa to the West Indies? "2. Whether it would be desirable for the African to make the change? "3. Whether it could be carried on without reasonable apprehension, or indeed a possibility of creating or encouraging a new Slave Trade?" 
 "1. The materials for emigration are enumerated,
 134 "2. It would be for the negro the highest advantage—the greatest blessing. "3. Under proper regulations, the Committee think that no danger exists of creating a real or plausible suspicion of a revival of the Slave Trade. "Your Committee cannot but strongly urge upon Parliament not only not to prohibit the emigration of free blacks from our African settlements to our West India Colonies, but to encourage and promote it by the authority of Government." l. l. "The momentous question, whether the staple products of tropical countries can be raised as effectually by the labour of freemen as by that of slaves, can never be brought to a fair trial, until the freedom of the employer be as fully established as the freedom of the labourer; and emancipation cannot be pronounced successful until that question be satisfactorily solved. Without an immediate and extensive supply of labour, their agriculture and trade must still further decline." "A policy directly the reverse of this course
 135 l.,
 MR. DIVETT  begged to ask the Under Secretary for the Colonies, whether it were or not the intention of the Colonial Office to sanction the regulation made on the 3rd day of March last, by the Governor of South Australia, respecting future land sales in that Colony, which, according to the last Report of the Colonization Commissioners would seem to have been drawn up under the direction of Lord Stanley, and in contravention of the decision of that House upon the Land Bill introduced by order of that noble Lord?
 MR. H. BARKLY  spoke as follows:—As one deeply interested in the adjustment of the Sugar Duties, I am anxious to explain the vote I am going to give tonight. Having felt it my duty to support the commercial policy of the late Government, my speech would require rather an awkward preface were I about to advocate the application of any other principle
 138 139 140 141 s. d. 142 s. d. s. d. s. s. 143 144 145 146 s. 147
 MR. HUME  thought the hon. Member for Evesham was totally mistaken in what he had said of India. There was not a native in Bengal who might not, if any attempt were made to coerce him, go to one of the courts of justice, claim its protection, and be set at liberty. When he was in India, there was not in the Benares district a single slave employed in the cultivation of sugar. In fact, the only vestige of slavery remaining, was that of the predials connected with families in the southern part of India; and if any one of these wished to be free, he had only to claim the protection of the Company's courts, wherever he was. It was, therefore, wrong to say that the sugar coming from Bengal was produced by slave labour. Much had been said of the horrors of slavery; but the admission of slave-grown sugar into England would really not have the smallest effect in any way upon colonial slavery. The measure of the late Government, in that view, was one of their most objectionable steps; the whole policy of the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) with regard to the Sugar Duties, was a gross mistake, and contrary to the principles he had been so usefully carrying out. The right hon. Baronet stated again, on the previous night, that the admission of slave-grown sugar would give an additional stimulus to slavery and the Slave Trade; but he gave no reason, nor could he. Suppose that the whole supply of sugar that came or could come to Europe amounted to 320,000 tons, and that 80,000 tons more were furnished by the Continent, from beet-root; suppose one-half of all this sugar to be slave grown, and, therefore, consumed on the Continent, and not here; if now, instead of the slave-grown sugar being used here, and the free on the Continent, both consumers used both sorts indiscriminately, the price of sugar would not be affected, and no stimulus would be given to the Slave Trade by the change. The West Indies seemed to be doomed to suffer from their own friends; the case was put on grounds that would not support it. The noble Lord (Lord G. Bentinck) asked, whether we meant to allow the Slave Trade to continue, and give up our efforts to suppress it? Why, our efforts to suppress it by coercion had failed, and always must. It was on that ground he had ever been anxious to see the British fleet, amounting to at least twenty-seven ships, removed from that coast. He believed, with Sir Fowell Buxton, that all that had been done
 124 125 l. 126
 MR. BORTHWICK  expressed his satisfaction at the presence of the head of the late Administration, and declared that he had never listened to a speech more calculated to lower the House in the estimation of the country than that which the right hon. Boronet had last night delivered. He had avowed that he supported the present Motion because the Government by which it was brought forward had only been a few weeks in office; however injurious rapid changes of the kind were, he exclaimed,  Fiat justitia ruat cœlum, 118 s. 119 s. d.
 MR. P. MILES  resumed the Adjourned Debate by stating that it was not with the view of protracting the discussion at this
 115 116 117
 SIR J. R. REID  thought the hon. Gentleman had made the best speech on his (Sir J. R. Reid's) side of the question that
 127 l.
 MR. HUTT  begged to ask his hon. Friend whether it appeared from the Papers in the Colonial Office that any such regulations as those alluded to had been drawn up by the noble Lord, and forwarded to the Colony? Probably so much might be at once ascertained without waiting for the arrival of despatches.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  hoped that the hon. Gentleman would not proceed with the Bill at present, as many hon. Members had absented themselves under the impression that it would not come on, and also as his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department had not yet arrived.
 MR. BERNAL  had objected to the application of the Bill to chapels, to religious societies, and in other cases, all of which had been since embraced in the Amendments proposed by the hon. Member for Montrose; and he therefore thought the hon. Member for Oxford had not shown his usual plain dealing in treating the Bill as it first stood.
 SIR W. JAMES  would also support the Amendment. He believed the art unions were very injurious to the trade, and that they inflicted an injustice upon those engaged in the trade. It had been said that the higher classes did not encourage the arts in this country; but he would assert that they encouraged the arts more liberally than the higher classes in any other conntry whatever. He was delighted to hear that large numbers of the paintings shown at the Royal Academy exhibition went to Liverpool and Manchester. The commercial interests of the country were, in fact, the great patrons of the art at the present moment. He thought it a matter of just regret that no money had been given lately to the National Gallery for the purchase of pictures, and that a sum of money was not voted annually for this purpose. It often happened that pictures of a high class were sold in September, or at a period like the present, when the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was engaged in matters of finance; and, owing to there being no fund at hand, the
 195 l. l.
 LORD H. VANE  did not think the hon. Gentleman was justified in saying that it would be necessary to proceed further. They were only anxious to adopt certain precautions, in consequence of there being a doubt as to whether art unions did or did not come under the definition of lotteries. He thought the best argument in favour of the Bill was the circumstance that a general impression existed in the country that art unions were not illegal.
 MR. ESCOTT  had been a Member of the Committee referred to; and his opinion was, that hundreds of poor artists in this town would be reduced to beggary if it were not for art unions.
 MR. ESCOTT  hoped the Government would be prepared with a measure on this important subject next Session. He was very sorry that the Member for the University of Oxford should be the person to oppose inquiry into the manner in which these trusts had been fulfilled. The right hon. Baronet might, however, rest assured that the people of this country would have an account of the manner in which charitable trusts were administered. He could
 186
 CAPTAIN LAYARD  thought that if the Government were inclined favourably to entertain the provisions of this Bill, it should also extend these lotteries to books. Books which publishers could not sell would not then be a dead loss. Something had been said about the Spitalfields weavers. He would ask, were not looms as necessary to be purchased by the weavers as pictures? Why, then, not have a loom lottery? The system might be carried out to food or anything else. If the principle was admitted to be a bad one, their infringement was ten thousand times worse than the establishment of the principle itself. The Chancellor of the Exchequer was against lotteries, and yet he was willing that the Crown should sanction that which was considered to be a vicious system. If they once commenced they would be bound to continue in the same direction, and therefore he was very glad to see an opposition to the Bill.
 MR. FREWEN  said, that in moving for leave to bring in the Bill of which he had given notice on the subject of Episcopal Revenues, his chief object was to get it printed, so that if it should be thought desirable to proceed with the measure in another Session, he should be most happy to leave the matter in the hands of Her Majesty's Government to do as they thought proper; and as far as such an humble individual as himself could render any assistance, he would do so. There had been much discussion of late about the union of the sees of Bangor and St. Asaph, and a Bill was now before the House which had been brought down from the House of Lords relating to this subject, and which would come on for a second reading on the 5th of August. His opinion was that they ought not to legislate for particular localities, and that unless Parliament was prepared greatly to increase the number of bishops, the union of the sees of Bangor and St. Asaph ought to take place; for if the Report of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, which was made in 1835, was fully carried out, the united diocese of Bangor and St. Asaph would even then be the smallest in the kingdom. But nearly every noble Lord who had spoken upon this subject the other night had urged the necessity of increasing the number of bishops, and that was his object upon the present occasion. He would not, however, go into the subject at present, but would simply move for leave to bring in the Bill.
 MR. GOULBURN  objected to the Bill as conferring on the Crown the power of giving persons by charter the right to distribute sums by way of prizes, which was nothing more than a lottery. The defence put forward for the measure was, that it would benefit peculiar classes, who would be benefited in no other way except by allowing these lotteries, and that it was limited to a useful object—the encouragement of art. It was, however, a great question of principle; for if they might raise a sum by way of lottery for the encouragement
 188 l., l. s. 189
 MR. HUME  was perfectly satisfied with the assurance of the right hon. Baronet as to the determination of Her Majesty's Government to introduce a measure next Session. He would beg to offer but one suggestion to the right hon. Gentleman, and that was, that some means should be devised as a speedy and cheap mode of adjusting all disputes arising in the administration of these charities.
 MR. HUME  said, he would have no objection
 185
 MR. HUME  said, he was quite willing to postpone this Bill if Her Majesty's Government would undertake to bring in a measure on the subject. The question was, however, one of so much importance, that he was unwilling to let his Bill drop without a distinct pledge on the part of the Government that it would be proceeded with. He wished the House would allow the Bill to go through Committee  pro formâ,
 MR. M. MILNES  could not concur in the indignation aroused in the right hon. Gentleman against the principle of lotteries; he did not think them so objectionable as was supposed. When they were put down, the people were scarcely prepared for the step; and if they were now appealed to, he doubted whether they would dellberately confirm the decision of the House. But the right hon. Gentleman was carrying even that principle to an injurious extent; and his own kindheartedness would make him admit that this was a quixotic attempt to carry out his rule of morality to an extreme. The question of the encouragement of art in this country was a painful subject for those who seriously considered it. When he saw the small sums contributed by the higher classes in this country, and when he saw genius, unable to restrain its high estimation, suffering from want and penury because it received no encouragement, it would cause him pain to give a vote to throw again into penury and privations those artists who had been relieved and elevated in consequence of art unions. He trusted especially that the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, who had shown so generous a feeling on a recent sad occasion connected with the arts, would not join with the right hon. Gentleman, and sacrifice for the shadow of a prinple a real benefit to deserving men, and a general benefit to the artistic education in this country. The objections to the Bill were somewhat far-fetched. Did the right hon. Gentleman really expect that the evils which flowed from State lotteries could follow from this measure? Could he conceive that men would ruin themselves and their families to acquire a few paintings, or that there would be any of the other unfortunate results which followed the State lotteries? He should give his hearty support to the Bill.
 MR. WYSE  regretted that the right hon. Baronet should have taken the course which he seemed to have prescribed for himself; because upon a recent occasion
 192 193 l. l. s. l.
 MR. WYSE  moved that the Art Unions Bill be recommitted.
 MR. EWART  supported the Bill. He contended that it would by no means encourage gambling. If it would so encourage gambling, how was it that art unions were still allowed to exist in Germany, France, Hamburg, Saxony, and other continental countries? In Belgium the law against gambling and lotteries was extremely stringent, yet in Belgium a special exemption was made against art unions. In addition to this their late Solicitor General had declared that art unions did not come under the definition of lotteries. Adam Smith, M'Culloch, and a Select Committee of the House of Commons, also had sanctioned that opinion.
 SIR G. GREY  concurred in the observations of his hon. Friend the Member for Oxford in his opposition to lotteries; and, with all respect to the opinion of the late Solicitor General, he could not agree that art unions did not come within the definition of "lotteries." It was quite clear, if they did not, that there would be no necessity for any Bill upon the subject. It seemed, however, that there was a necessity for the Bill: first, to remove any doubt whether they did come within the lottery law or not; and then, if they did, to subject them to such wholesome restrictions as to prevent them being converted into gambling purposes. The Committee of 1844, which was renewed in 1845, stated as the result of their inquiries, that they doubted whether some art unions had not had a gambling tendency. They then set themselves to inquire whether the evils which existed might not be remedied; and they reported that they believed the evils were not inherent in the system, or without remedy; and they suggested certain precautions which they thought would be ample remedies against such abuses. The recommendations of that Committee were embodied in the present Bill; and his hon. Friend, in bringing forward that Bill, had only acted in accordance with the views of that Committee. It was merely intended to exempt art unions from the operation of the lottery laws, and under these circumstances he should assent to the further progress of the Bill. He did not feel himself competent to give an opinion
 196
 SIR GEORGE GREY  understood, that during his unavoidable absence from the House, his hon. Friend had consented to postpone this Bill, on the understanding that the matter would be taken up by Her Majesty's Government. He had spoken to his noble and learned Friend the Lord Chancellor on this subject, and he trusted that early next Session the Government would be prepared to introduce a Bill, and to state the course which they intended to adopt. He trusted, therefore, that his hon. Friend would now allow them to proceed with the other business on the Paper.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought he had distinctly stated already, not only that the Government would consider the question, but that it would be, early next Session, prepared with a measure on the subject. Without entering into any of the details at present, which, he thought, could not be expected from him, he had no hesitation in saying that his own impression was, that the principle of any Bill brought in ought to be the principle of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose, namely, the principle of accountability. To that principle he was prepared to give his support.
 SIR ROBERT INGLIS  said, he wished to take that opportunity of stating some of his objections to this Bill. He thought that a Bill less worthy of being concocted by the two hon. Gentlemen whose names appeared on the back of it, and with less appearance of having been revised by a learned lawyer, who he understood had revised it, had never come before the House. It was entitled, "A Bill for procuring regular accounts of all Property secured for Charitable Purposes in England;" but he thought it went much farther than that title would lead one to suppose. He apprehended that, as it at present stood, it included the universities, the royal hospitals, and all voluntary societies; that it comprised in its provisions the 40,000 chapels and schools connected with the Dissenting interests, as well as every school connected with the Established Church; and that it went down from those who had 100,000 l. s.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, the right hon. Baronet had commended what was the most objectionable part of the Bill, for he would include the accounts of all voluntary associations. He did not object to the principle of accountability for public money; but he did object to any accounting for private funds; and he hoped that Her Majesty's present Government, reinforced with all the strength of the late Government, would not be able to carry any plan for bringing voluntary contributions within the machinery of this Bill.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, on a former occasion when this subject was discussed, he had differed in opinion with a late lamented Member of that House, Mr. Gally Knight, whose superior taste and judgment in all matters relating to the fine arts would be universally admitted. That hon. Gentleman had contended that the cultivation of the fine arts tended to improve the character of the people. He then denied that it improved their moral character: he still held the same opinion; and in proof of the fact he might refer to the state of Greece, Rome, and Italy, at periods when the fine arts were in the most flourishing condition in those countries. Twenty years ago the Legislature declared, by assenting to a Motion of Lord Lyttelton's, that lotteries were immoral in themselves, as rendering private vices subservient to the public advantage. He concurred in that opinion; he held that lotteries were utterly immoral. Those schemes had
 194
 SIR R. PEEL  had felt no wish to take
 190 191 l., l., l.,
 SIR R. PEEL  thought the hon. Gentleman had exercised a wise discretion, after the assurance of the Government, in withdrawing the Bill. The principle that all parties in whom was vested any charitable trust, or who acted in the administration of any charities, should render an account of the way in which they disposed of the funds entrusted to them, appeared to him fair and just. One of the objects which would be gained, if the Bill passed, might be furthered, perhaps, by the Government in the interval before the next Session. The advantage of accounts would very much depend upon the uniformity of the form in which they were made. The right hon. Gentleman might in the recess take the accounts of eight or ten charitable institutions, and he would then see the sources from which the revenue was derived, and so make something like a general form; for the clearness and utility
 187
 MR. V. SMITH , having adverted to the various measures promised by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, in his speech upon the Corn Laws, as a compensation to the landed interest, said, that among these were proposals to take out of the public funds the remaining half of the expenses of prisoners, of prosecutions, the whole of the cost of the rural police of Ireland, of medical attendance on the poor, of the Perth prison, of schoolmasters and schoolmistresses, and of the auditors of unions under the Poor Laws. Besides these, three other important Bills were announced: one of these had been introduced by the right hon. Member for Dorchester (Sir J. Graham) regarding highways; another was the remnant this night to be read a third time; and the third a plan for advancing loans to landlords who wished to improve their estates. The first and the last had been dropped, and had disappeared. [Sir J. GRAHAM: The Loans Bill is not dropped. It has been recently discussed.] He should be glad to hear there was a chance of its passing. There had been upon the Table for the last three years a valuable report of Commissioners on local taxation, to which no attention had yet been paid. One of its most important recommendations was the consolidation of rates, twenty-four rates of which were levied for different purposes. Some of those had been consolidated in practice; but such consolidation, though most convenient, was illegal. There were many other points in the report deserving consideration, especially the publicity of all accounts; and it was notorious throughout the country that many charges were thrown upon the highway rate, in order to avoid the investigation of the auditors of the poor rates. The Committee of the House of Lords had produced an important report regarding the burdens upon land, which had yet attracted no notice: it touched upon required changes; and as many of the laws adverted to had been long condemned in public opinion, they only awaited speedy execution. It seemed to him that the present was the time for giving effect to such alterations as were justly expected by the landed interest; and he wished to be informed whether his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary would not appoint his Committee on the Law of
 206
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that almost the whole of the measures enumerated by his right hon. Friend had been introduced. The Highway Rates Bill had been given up by the right hon. Baronet with the full concurrence of the House. The Poor Removal Bill stood for a third reading this evening. The Drainage of Lands Advances Bill would be recommitted on Friday. The House had voted money for the maintenance of prisoners, for the expense of prosecutions, for medical relief, for the Perth prison, and for the schoolmasters of the Poor Law unions. The only measure not introduced was, that for the payment of the rural police of Ireland, for which a short Act was necessary, which the House would, he hoped, pass before the end of the Session. Of the ten measures promised by the late Government, nine had been or would be passed; and the tenth had been given up by the Government with the consent of the House. With regard to the question before the House, the Government were not able to pay much attention to it at this period of the Session; and the question of settlement might be advantageously considered in the recess by hon. Members. He differed, however, from his right hon. Friend in thinking that it would be advisable to appoint the Committee at this late period of the Session, for he doubted whether hon. Members could be got to attend it. The attention of the Government would be directed to the whole subject during the recess; and his noble Friend would be prepared next Session either to state the views of the Government, or to move for the appointment of a Select Committee.
 MR. WILLIAMS  considered it most desirable that the administration of the Poor Law should be placed under the immediate control of the Home Department. Under the present system, that law was administered most oppressively towards the poor, and in a manner which subjected the ratepayers to much unnecessary expense. If the Bill was passed in its present shape, gross injustice would be done to many parishes, and he believed it would be the source of great litigation.
 MR. BODKIN  was under the apprehension that if this clause passed, it would go far to defeat the whole object of the Bill.
 MR. BODKIN  moved a clause, showing the expense of the maintenance, relief, or burial, of persons exempted from the liability to be removed upon the common fund of the union. He had the strongest objection to the destruction of the ancient parochial system. They had, in the Poor Law Amendment Act, a machinery for carrying the principle of this clause into execution; for, according to that Act, whilst each parish in the union discharged the expenses of its own poor, there were certain expenses for objects of general advantage to the whole union which were defrayed out of a common fund, to which each parish contributed rateably. By this means, the objections which had been urged to what were called close parishes would be obviated, and any disposition to treat harshly those who became chargeable by a five years' residence would be checked.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  moved, that the House go into Committee on this Bill, and observed, that the measure had been introduced to the House by the late Government, at an early period of the Session; and a perfect understanding had been felt, that, though late, the Bill would be carried through Parliament. It had been stated by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the late Government, that he intended to assimilate the system of banking in the two countries. The Bill before the House had resulted from this determination; and the present Government, considering the measure called for, and calculated to effect much benefit, had promoted its enactment into a law.
 SIR R. FERGUSON  thought the Bill altogether uncalled for.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  supported the Bill, because he thought that it would be of immediate benefit to the poor, and nothing better could be done till the next Session of Parliament. He should be ready then to support a Motion for the appointment of a Select Committee, to inquire into the whole subject, with a view permanently to improve the laws. When the Poor Law Commission was first appointed, he thought that it was only to be a temporary board, instituted for the purpose of establishing the system of the new law throughout the country. The mode in which that system had been established, was, from want of experience, harsh and crude, and it had been found necessary to make alterations in each succeeding Session of Parliament. It was said that that the present was only partial legislation; but as humanity had called for alterations in the law in each succeeding year, he did not object to temporary, rather than partial, legislation; in the hope that next year it would introduce general and permanent improvement.
 MR. B. ESCOTT  was convinced that this was not the way to alter the Poor Law. A Committee was promised next Session to take the whole subject into consideration; and after all, seeing that the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey) really said nothing in favour of the Bill, he (Mr. Escott) doubted much whether the right hon. Gentleman was at this moment in favour of it. He was afraid that it was nothing more than a point of honour with him to carry out a measure which had been left by the late Government. He highly disapproved of such a mode of legislation. The whole operation and effect of the Bill was a matter of the greatest doubt. The right hon. Gentleman the late Secretary of State for the Home Department, had stated that much difficulty existed as to what was the right construction of an important clause of the Bill—that which referred to the period of residence; and he believed there was not a Member in the House who would venture to construe that and some other clauses. Now, were they to throw such a measure as that before the magistrates and Poor Law guardians of the country? What could they expect the decisions of magistrates to be when no one in that House was prepared to say how the clauses of the Bill ought to be construed?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that he could not admit to the right hon. Gentleman the late Chancellor of the Exchequer (Mr. Goulburn), that the public or the House had had ample notice of the intention to proceed with the measure. He must remind the House that the second reading of the measure had taken place at half-past eleven at night long since, when the attention of the country and the House was absorbed by the consideration of the great free-trade measures proposed by the late Government: no fair opportunity was then afforded for the practical discussion of the principle involved in it. He (Mr. Newdegate) knew that a great number of Members, previously to that second reading, had gone away, believing that the Bill would not be proceeded with. This alone was a sufficient reason to justify the present Chancellor of the Exchequer in abstaining from going on with the measure, when there were not six Scotch Members in the House. The system of banking in Scotland was secure, and comprehensive, and
 219 l. 220 "I know that your spirit and the spirit of all the northern clans would be up in arms instantly if Sir Robert were to attempt, by force, to carry his new order of things beyond the Tweed. But I must confess that I am a little fearful lest by tickling the vanity of the Scots, and baiting his hook with the promise of some temporary advantage—perhaps leaving their small notes nominally untouched until that good faith upon which they are based has been secretly undermined, and then (according to the system pursued in England) taking advantage of some partial discredit thus created as a pretext for enforcing his dogma. "That the advance of credit for forming the circulating medium of the country is a privilege and an advantage to which none are entitled; or it may be that some of the principal Scotch banks may be dealt with in the same manner as the Bank of England has been treated, first relieved from all control over the currency, as being a power quite unfit for them to exercise—then deprived of their independent character—then made the tools of an arbitrary and ambitious Prime Minister, who, having thus got them under his own control, may then insist upon the whole credit circulation of Scotland baing brought nominally under the control of those favoured banks, but really under his own; I am, I repeat, fearful lest he should thus accomplish, by cunning and stratagem, that interference with your circulation which he could not accomplish by force."
 MR. ROSS  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland, a question upon a subject of much importance and deeply interesting to the people of Ireland. The House was aware that a great many Gentlemen had been, in consequence of their political sentiments, and the part they took in the Repeal movement during the last two or three years under the late Administration, removed from the commission of the peace in Ireland. A great many magistrates of opposite political opinions were likewise removed for countenancing Orange processions, although it was denied that they had over countenanced them at all. What he wished therefore to ask was—whether under all the circumstonces, and considering that in the present condition of Ireland a more humane and tolerant spirit had arisen and now prevailed amongst all parties, the Government would take any steps to have the gentlemen so dismissed restored to their commissions?
 MR. BANKES  said, to attack the present Government on the measures alluded to, was, in his opinion, unjust, because the
 207 208 209 210
 MR. G. BANKES  brought up the following Clause to be added to the Bill:—
 "Provided always, and be it Enacted, That if any person upon examination by the Justices to whom application may be made for an order for his or
 213
 MR. FINCH  considered it most advisable that this Bill should be postponed till the next Session. It was a measure that required great consideration, and if adopted in its present form, it would operate most perniciously with respect to 2,000 or 3,000 parishes. He did not see any great objection to a measure of this kind, if it was introduced simultaneously with a measure for amending the law of settlement. He considered that great benefit would, on the whole, result from the establishment of union settlements. Such a system would afford advantages for carrying out a plan of emigration on a large scale; and if two or three unions combined, it might be worth their while to fit out ships for the conveyance of emigrants at their own expense—an arrangement which would, no doubt, materially promote the comfort of the emigrants.
 MR. GOULBURN  stated, that the late Government, having found the necessity of legislating upon the principle of banking, had proceeded to do so, and the last Bill on the subject was that then before the House. No complaint could be made that either the House or the banking interest were taken by surprise with respect to the measure, because the existence of the Bill was well known; the bankers themselves had been apprised of the intentions of the Government respecting it; and even the Scotch Members themselves had inquired when the measure would be brought forward. He had had deputation upon deputation from Scotland upon the subject of this Bill; and Scottish Members could not now plead surprise in regard to it, or a want of notice. The right hon. Gentleman then recited the principal provisions of the Bill, and contended that they could not possibly have any injurious effect on the operations of banking in Scotland.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  denied that hon. Members had any right to complain of having been taken by surprise in the case of this Bill. The Bill was originally brought in last year, but withdrawn on the express understanding that it was to be introduced again this Session. It was entered on the books for a very early day after the opening of the Session, but was postponed till a later period, solely that there might be as ample an opportunity as possible for discussion on the subject. Immediately after the accession to office of the present Ministers, he notified to the House that this measure was one of those with which the Government were resolved to proceed; and he named a remote day for bringing it forward. He was induced, however, to depart from the day that he had fixed, and to postpone the measure for a week longer, in order to receive a deputation from the bankers of Scotland on the subject; and surely, after all this, it was not open for hon. Members to complain that due notice had not been given of the intentions of the Government. He considered the principle of the measure a sound and just one, and was willing to undertake the responsibility of adopting it.
 MR. LABOUCHERE , in answer to the question, begged to state that the most serious attention of Her Majesty's Government had been given to the subject from the moment of their coming into office, and they had come to a determination upon it, the best way of stating which to the House would be by reading a short official correspondence which had taken place between himself (as Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant) and the Lord Chancellor of Ireland. It was as follows:—
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that the hon. Member for Salford thought that this measure would do some good between this time and next year; but the hon. Member must know that at present, owing to the prosperity of trade, which was likely to increase in succeeding years, there would be no removals of families from the manufacturing to the agricultural districts. He feared, if the measure were now passed, that, in some districts, the poor would be dogged from parish to parish in order to ascertain their settlement. He was in favour of the principle of the Bill, having no wish to see the poor working people returned from the manufacturing to the agricultural districts; but he desired the measure to be postponed for the present, as nothing was more injurious than ill-considered legislation.
 MR. FLOYER  did not see how an overseer,
 214
 MR. J. STUART  objected to the consideration of a measure like that before the House when there was so thin an attendance of hon. Members. He contended that
 222 223
 MR. BROTHERTON  conceived that the measure was one of humanity towards the poor, and that it would not inflict those heavy burdens on parishes which some supposed, though it did not go to the extent he wished.
 MR. HENLEY  did not think overseers would be very likely to bribe paupers, or purchase their consent to be removed, if, as he understood, such overseers must not only do it out of their own pockets, but would by the Bill be made liable to penalties.
 MR. HENLEY  opposed the Motion.
 221
 MR. HUME  objected to the Bill, and when originally brought forward had stated his objections, upon the ground that the measure was not called for, and in its operation would create a monopoly. The hon. Member for Shrewsbury (Mr. Disraeli) had spoken a few evenings since upon the principle of action and reaction; but really the Government made strange havoc of their free-trade legislation; for occasionally they
 218
 MR. HUME  thought the statement of the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey) afforded strong reason for not proceeding further with the Bill. That right hon. Gentleman told them that he was not now prepared to give his opinion on the subject. The fact was, and they need only look to the Table of the House for proof, that that House had become the executive department for carrying on the Poor Law. That certainly ought not to be the case. If the administration of the law had been committed to persons who were incapable of administering it properly, and if every Paper moved for exposed their weakness and incapacity, ought not the Government to see the necessity of undertaking the control of such an important branch of public affairs? Instead of dealing with the question by piecemeal, he thought that, in justice to all parties, they might postpone this measure until the whole subject could be taken into consideration.
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, that for the first time in the history of the Poor Law in this country, they were going to separate settlement and removal. He was sure hon. Gentlemen must be nearly all agreed that at the present moment the way in which it was attempted to deal with the law of removal was most imperfect and unwise.
 211
 MR. P. SCROPE  proposed the following Clause:—
 "Provided always, and he it Enacted, That the five years' residence hereinbefore mentioned, shall be construed to mean a residence of not less than one half of every year of the five during which such person shall have exercised some industrious calling within the said parish or Union."
 MR. SPOONER  considered that the postponement of the Bill would occasion great inconvenience, for measures would be taken in many places to induce poor persons to remove, in order that they might not become chargeable on the parishes in which they now resided. He believed it was a measure that would do some good, though
 212
 MR. SPOONER  considered that if overseers induced a pauper to deprive himself of a right the Bill gave him, he would be a willing person, and therefore could not complain. There was much more fear of collusion as the Bill now stood, because an overseer giving a man a sovereign to make himself removable by residing for a week in the next parish, would not only get rid of the man, but would saddle the next parish with the expense of his removal, and the risk of an appeal. The proposed clause, too, would bring the question under the control of the magistrates, who might investigate whether there was collusion, or whether it was his real interest to go back to his own parish.
 MR. CHRISTIE  moved, that an Address be presented to Her Majesty for copies of correspondence between the Home Office and the magistrates of the Loughborough petty sessions, on the cases of Mary Ann Tyler, John Jarvis, and Catherine Stubbs, and of the report of the Commissioner appointed to inquire into the case of Catherine Stubbs.
 MR. FORBES  protested strenuously against the Bill, and hoped that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would give him time to get up a county meeting against it. He would undertake to procure numerous petitions from every parish in Stirlingshire. The present system of banking in Scotland was found to work admirably; and the measure which was now under consideration was not at all required. It would be injurious to the country to which he had the honour to belong.
 SIR GEORGE CLERK  said, it was stated that the House had been taken by surprise with reference to this measure; and that it was another instance of the evil which the legal profession complained of from hasty legislation. Now, what was the history of what was called hasty legislation? A Bill was brought in in 1844, for the regulation of banks in England; and it was stated at the time that it was the intention in the then ensuing Session to introduce a measure carrying the same principles into the system of banking in other parts of the United Kingdom. Accordingly, in 1845, a Bill was introduced for improving the system of banking both in Ireland and Scotland. This identical Bill was introduced at the end of the Session, in the month of July; but on representations being made on the part of the inhabitants of Scotland that they had not sufficient time to consider it, it was postponed until the next Session. The Bill was again introduced in the beginning of the present Session, on the 21st of February. It excited great attention in Scotland, and deputations attended on the then First Lord of the Treasury, consisting not only of bankers, but of noblemen and landholders, and a large proportion of the representatives of Scotland. If the people of Scotland thought the Bill would be prejudicial to them, the Table would be covered with petitions against it; and he (Sir George Clerk) conceived it would be only a waste of time to add a single word on this clause of this Bill.
 SIR G. GREY  reminded the House that when an Amendment of a similar kind, with respect to widows, was moved by the hon. Member for Brighton (Captain Pechell), the hon. Member for Birmingham urged the expediency of adopting a clause such as that now proposed; and he (Sir G. Grey) then stated that to the principle of such a clause he entertained no objection, and that his objection was founded on its being calculated to open a door to collusion, and on the apprehension (as the result of his best consideration of the subject, and communition with persons of great practical knowledge, whose opinions were entitled to much weight), that improper means would be taken to obtain or extort the consent of parties to the orders of removal, and that the effect would be to deprive the poor of the benefit apparently offered them. If the House thought the clause was so framed as to exclude the possibility of such evils, he had no objection to make; but his own opinion still was, that it would subject the parties to them.
 SIR G. GREY  said, one obvious effect of the clause proposed by the hon. Gentleman was, that a person might have a residence of only two years and a half in a parish out of the five; and still that would not remove the doubt which the hon. Gentleman thought at present existed. This showed the impossibility of settling any minute question of this kind which might arise by legislation. In regard to the latter part of the proposed clause, he understood it to be intended to have the effect of giving the benefit of the Act to none who had not an industrial residence in the sense understood by the hon. Gentleman. But why should the man who had lived perhaps upon a dividend arising from some fund in which he had an interest, and which might perhaps fail him, be excluded from the benefits of the Act? He would be required to prove that he had exercised in the parish some industrious calling during the whole period required by the Act for obtaining a settlement. Now, he believed, such a clause as this would give rise to much dispute and litigation, and would be attended practically with no good effects.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  did not intend to oppose the Motion, although it had not been usual to give copies of such correspondence. But in the present case, one of the magistrates having chosen to bring the case before his brother magistrates assembled at the Leicestershire sessions, and the report in the newspaper not giving a complete view of the case, he should accede to the Motion, in order that the whole matter might be fairly laid before the House. But he, of course, should wish it to be distinctly understood that it must not form a precedent.
 SIR G. GREY  moved the Order of the Day for the Third Reading of the Poor Removal Bill.
 SIR G. GREY  merely rose for the purpose of assurring the hon. Gentleman that he was fully sensible of the importance of the general subjects to which he had adverted; and, without at present expressing any opinion upon, them, he might state that they would receive the most anxious, patient, and attentive consideration from the Government. He hoped that when this question was referred to a Select Committee, in the next Session of Parliament, the Government would be prepared to state their views, and to furnish all the documentary evidence they might think it necessary to lay before the Committee.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The hon. Member for Bolton and other hon. Gentlemen have Motions on the Paper respecting corporal punishment in the army. I have lately had an opportunity of seeing the Commander-in-Chief, the Duke of Wellington, and my right hon. Friend the Secretary at War has also had an interview with his Grace. We find that the Commander-in-Chief has measures in contemplation not for the abolition of the power of inflicting corporal punishment in the
 244
 LORD J. RUSSELL : What I said was, that the Commander-in-Chief of the army has the subject under consideration, with a view not to the abolition but to the regulation of the exercise of corporal punishment. I have not had any communication, with the naval authorities, and I am, therefore, not at present able to give any answer to the question of the hon. Member for Coventry. As to what my hon. Friend the Member for Bolton has said, if he be not satisfied with the contemplated measure of the Commander-in-Chief, I will take care that he shall have an opportunity of expressing his dissatisfaction.
 The CHAIRMAN  signified to him that it must be moved upon the second Resolution.
 MR. MOFFATT  moved as an Amendment the repeal of the differential duties on white clayed sugar and muscovado or other sugar not being equal to white clayed. He observed that there was a great difficulty in obtaining any accurate test to distinguish these sugars, and the discriminating duty was otherwise objectionable, as it converted the Custom-house officers into a sort of tribunal for taxing imported goods. Last year the right hon. Baronet anticipated that there would be a revenue of 230,000 l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  agreed in some of the observations of the hon. Member, though he differed from him in respect to the conclusion to which the hon. Member had come; for he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) did not think it expedient to do away with this discriminating duty. When the right hon. Gentleman opposite introduced this distinction, he did not put it very much on the ground of revenue, but rather on the circumstance that a great quantity of
 254 "Prices of sugar:—Mauritius, very brown, July 4, 1 l. s. l. s.; l. s. l. s. l. s. l. s.; l. s. l. s. l. s. l. s.; l. s. l. l. s. l. s. l. s. l. s. ad valorem "I think the matter will be much changed by the introduction of Cuba and Brazil sugar. You would then have two classes only—the highest would be refined, and what was rendered by any process equal to refined and everything else would be admitted at 21 s. 255 s. "The only thing that has excited any alarm is the uncertainty about the duty on refined and clayed sugar. If these fine sugars were to be admitted at any lower duty than the scale submitted to Parliament, I assure you, as a practical man, that the duties on these sugars would be lower, quality and value considered, than the duty on colonial sugar. It is quite a mistake to say, that any difficulty can arise as to the different qualities." "You will observe, that although on the first introduction of the discriminating duty on sugar, some inconvenience and delay were experienced, the officers report that the law has been and may be henceforward carried into operation with fairness and justice; that the decisions of the officers have been, with few exceptions, consistent with each other, and on the whole satisfactory to the trade and the public. The qualities of sugar imported into this country vary from the lowest—hardly better than molasses—to quality equal to refined sugar. The sugars from Havannah, which will now for the first time come into competition with our colonial sugars, are of a very superior quality. Some of these will undoubtedly be assessed as refined sugar; but other parcels, not quite coming up to the standard of refined, would pay the lowest duty (if the intermediate rate be abolished) and would in that case be very unequally taxed, as compared with the average samples of muscovado sugar. It is not my province as a revenue officer to decide on the policy and expediency of retaining this class of duties. It is perhaps sufficient for me to repeat, that if it be the pleasure of Parliament to continue the existing classification, the officers of the Customs feel confident that they will be able to assess the duties on sugar without difficulty or inconvenience." 256 "We beg to express our belief that the law has been, and may be, carried out by the officers of Customs with fairness and justice. But there have been instances in which the parties immediately interested have been dissatisfied with the officers' decisions, although those decisions have met with the concurring opinions of the trade, with whom the officers have conferred" s. d., 257
 MR. JAMES  rose to move, that colonial sugar be admitted for the next three years at a duty not exceeding 10 s. 258
 The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER  regretted that he could not be swayed altogether by a feeling of gratitude to the hon. Gentleman. The Amendment would involve a very large sacrifice of revenue; no quantity of sugar could be brought at a 10 s. s.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  admitted that it might be difficult to give reasons for the precise scale adopted; but upon the whole he thought the Government scale of reductions year after year the best calculated to promote the interests of the West India proprietors themselves and of the consumer, as well as best for the revenue. With regard to the introduction of molasses into distilleries, all he would now say was, that he would give the subject the fullest consideration; but on this point the West India interest had sent him no details; the colonists were entitled to, and would certainly receive from the Government, every aid which could be given them in the disposal of their produce.
 MR. BERNAL  knew that letters would
 264
 MR. BERNAL  did not doubt the right hon. Gentleman's sincerity or integrity; but as to-morrow's packet would go to the Colonies, it was essential that every thing should go with it that would allay irritation. When the hon. Gentleman said, that these duties were not imposed for the purposes of protection, he must add that they operated as a protection. When they found the duty on rum in Scotland to be 9 s. d., s. d., s. s. 266
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I have heard with very great pleasure the statement made during this discussion by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge. I have no hesitation in saying that he addressed himself to this question in the fairest possible manner; and I quite concur with the right hon. Gentleman in many of the observations which he made. I think, so far as they go, that they will be useful to the interests of the consumer. But apart from the observations made by the right hon. Gentleman, the attention of the House has been drawn to the scale proposed by the hon. Member for Sunderland; and I acknowledge that that scale does not appear to differ very widely from the scale proposed by Her Majesty's Government. But the subject is one of great importance; and I believe the House will agree with me in thinking that the scale proposed by the Government is likely to prove upon the whole more advantageous than any other that has yet been submitted to the House. I conceive that it will be better for the consumer in this point of view, because, during the first three years, there will not be sudden drops of 3 s. d., s. d. 268 s. d. s. d. 269 270
 COLONEL FOX  wished to ask the hon. Member whether he had given notice of his intention to bring this case forward; for without such notice it was hardly fair to the present Board of Admiralty, who had not been in office a month to refer to a case that had occurred fourteen years ago.
 MR. BARCLAY  moved to substitute 1 "l. s. d. l. s.
 MR. D. BARCLAY  rose and addressed the Committee in opposition to the Resolutions. He urged the importance of affording our West Indian Colonies a supply of free labour. He observed, that there was a wide difference between labour, which, in the case of free negroes, was optional, and the work of fourteen or
 252 253
 MR. HORSMAN  asked whether it was the intention of Government to propose any measures to facilitate railway business in the House? He was aware that a Committee was sitting, which had not made its report; but the nature of its Resolutions was pretty generally known. A Committee of the House of Lords had also made an excellent report, which was upon the Table. At the beginning of the Session there had been so many complaints, that the Prime Minister had felt called upon to come down and ask the opinion of the House as to the course to be pursued: the Session ought not to close without something being done prospectively to lessen the evils of the present system. He wished to ascertain, therefore, whether any and what measures were in contemplation to remedy what had been a perfect infliction on the House, and most unsatisfactory to the public.
 MR. BARKLY : Mr. Greene, I did not intend to trouble the House again on the subject of these duties, when I explained my reasons for voting the other night for going into this Committee, and I shall do so briefly now. I did hope Her Majesty's
 259 260
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the West Indians had stated that as all protection was withdrawn from them, there ought to be no protection against them; and he had asked them, instead of laying down a general principle in which all were agreed, to give him the details of what restrictions they complained of, and what obstacles they met with. Take rum for instance, protection and free trade had nothing to do with the principle of that duty. It was imposed as a fiscal regulation, that the burden on British spirit and on colonial should be such as to allow them to come into consumption on precisely equal terms. Upon that principle the differential duty of 1 s. d. s. d. s. s. d., s. d. s. 265
 MR. GOULBURN  said, it was impossible for those who were connected with the West Indian Colonies, or who had known what had gone on in them, not to be able to produce many melancholy instances in which those who had been in affluence and comfort had been reduced to straitened circumstances, to dependence, and distress, which extended not only to individuals who were able to find some other means for providing for themselves, but which involved many women and children, who had no means of obtaining their subsistence; still he was not prepared, if the question had gone to a division, to vote for the Amendment of his hon. Friend. Not but that he would have been glad if the Government had come forward to adopt that or some analogous proposition, more with a view of showing some interest for a deeply suffering body, than with any expectation of a beneficial result. He would, however, insist upon other points, which combining with the acknowledged principles now adopted, could be carried, and he urged the friends of the colonists to use their energies in pressing upon the Government those other measures of compensation which could be given without the departure from any principle, and for which, in strict conformity with what was right, the West Indians had the strongest claims upon any Government, when they were to be deprived of that protective duty which appeared to the Legislature to have been imposed upon their fellow subjects only to aggravate the price of a commodity of great necessity. Supposing, therefore, the propositions in behalf of the Government would be acted upon in sincerity, he
 263
 DR. BOWRING  considered the calm and conciliatory spirit in which the West Indian interest had received the Government propositions, entitled them to have their case and their claims calmly and deliberately considered by that House. For himself he was of opinion the present measure was entangled by too many complications; but he had no doubt Government would consider the details, and would be willing to inquire if there were not facilities and advantages that could be fairly conceded to the West Indian Colonies. He wished the rum question were finally settled. Difficulties put forward by the Excise or Customs ought not to be allowed to interfere with the settlement of a great question. Such minor impediments ought not to be permitted to offer an obstruction to beneficial legislation. The present step was an important step in the right direction, and he could not but feel if Government continued in the same course, they would find a disposition on all sides to lend them a common support.
 DR. BOWRING : I collect from the noble Lord that the whole subject is under the consideration of Government, and I should be sorry that any Motion of mine should interfere with their decision; but I consider myself so pledged to the public, to the popular feeling, and to what may be called the general mind, that I musk ask the noble Lord, if the measures to be proposed by the head of the army do not appear satisfactory, to allow me to bring the question under the notice of the House before the end of the Session. I feel myself bound to press on the attention of the House this interesting and painful subject.
 MR. HUME : The noble Lord was not present the other night during the discussion on the articles of war, as applied to the navy: had he been present, he would
 245
 MR. HUME  was sorry to hear such an account from the West Indies as had been given by the hon. Member. He was very anxious that Gentlemen should, on this occasion, repeat their determination to carry out the principle of free trade in every respect, and to allow no interference to prevent them. No one could have believed that matters would have been settled so amicably as they had been; and he was very glad to see that it had been so. The amount of the present protection was 22 s., s. 267
 MR. P. M. STEWART  thought the gloom which hung over the West Indies had been rather exaggerated by the hon. Gentlemen who opposed the Government measure. He should have been exceedingly glad if the Government had acceded to the Amendment, as it would have been valuable as an expression of kind feeling towards the Colonies, while in a financial point of view that Amendment was, in his opinion, preferable to the proposal of the Government. It would have been better for the revenue; to the consumer it would have commended itself as proposing to limit the term to four instead of five years; and to the colonist it would have the recommendation that it would enable him to put himself right in three years, so as to be ready to come into competition with foreigners. On these grounds he was sorry that the Amendment had not been conceded. In regard to the gloom, however, he hoped the tone which their Friends opposite had thrown into the debate, would not be sent across the Atlantic to the Colonies. They were not gone yet, but would still be ready to compete, if the Government would realize to them the hopes which had been held out with reference to other measures—he meant an unrestricted supply of labour from any British possession under the sun, and also with regard to the disposal of their produce. He would, therefore, say to his friends in the Colonies, that hard and severe as this measure was, great as was the competition to which it exposed them, yet, with all these disadvantages, if the Government would act up to its promises with regard to the supply of labour and the disposal of their produce, they would be able to go on successfully yet.
 MR. P. M. STEWART  thought the present measure was to be final. If the question now before the House was to be revived hereafter, the West Indians might some day be robbed of the benefit they were to receive for the sacrifice by which they supposed they were now purchasing peace.
 MR. BORTHWICK  had no doubt that the measure was in itself most beneficial, looking at the Colonies as Colonics; but he would state a case to the House which would show that the fears of many individuals were far from groundless. The case he referred to was that of an estate in the island of Demerara. The property for half a century yielded to the proprietor 20,000 l. l. l. l., 262 l.
 MR. P. HOWARD  thought there was one point which the Government might fairly concede to the colonists—a point which had been alluded to by the hon. Member for Weymouth. It was proposed to limit the contracts with the labourers to one year. He considered that period too short, both for the employer and the labourer, and was of opinion that the period of contract labour ought to extend to four or five years. Such a change would not only be beneficial to the Hill Coolies, but to the imported Africans. He hoped the Government would take into consideration the suggestions he had offered, and that the boon sought for would be conceded to the West Indians.
 MR. OSBORNE : Having given notice of an Amendment, I may be allowed to say, that the declaration of the noble Lord has given me so much satisfaction that I shall not, under present circumstances, think it necessary to press my Amendment.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he did not rise to oppose the Motion that the House do now resolve itself into Committee, nor would he delay the doing so for more than a very few minutes. His object in rising
 246 247 248
 MR. W. WILLIAMS : I wish to ask the noble Lord whether it is intended to take into consideration the same question as regards punishments in the navy? When the Estimates are before the House, on the question that the Speaker leave the chair, I shall also think it right to bring before the House the subject of courts martial.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  wished to call the attention of the House to the manner in which courts martial were constituted and conducted in the British navy. Under the present system, by the Act of George II., it was necessary that a naval court martial should consist of five officers at the least, three of whom must be post-captains. But it was extremely difficult to find that number when a ship was on a foreign station. A case had been stated to him, in which a young officer, of high connexions, had been put under arrest, and because three post-captains could not be found, a ship was sent from this country with a post-captain, in order to hold the court martial. At the same time, it was impossible to prove those facts. [Sir G. COCKBURN: Because they are not true.] In common justice to that young officer, they were bound to do what they did; but he ought not to be kept a single day without having the opportunity of defending himself from the charge against him. The system was upon an erroneous principle, and was liable, necessarily, to place officers in situations of the greatest anxiety. In the army field-officers constituted the court martial; but if there was a deficiency a captain was eligible to supply it, and it should be the same with lieutenants in the navy. Another defect was, that under the Act of George II., the sole and entire power was given to them—there was no appeal to the Crown or the Admiralty—there was no power by law to disallow the sentence of the court martial. The Sovereign might replace an officer, but that was a different matter. Every principle of justice was violated by the present system. The hon. Gentleman, in illustration, referred to the case of Lieutenant Walker of the  Alban, Barham.
 MR. WILLIAMS  was convinced that he had a correct account of the facts, and he formed his conclusion from those facts; but if they were disputed he was ready to prove them. He brought no charge against anybody, not even against the officers of the courts martial, except that they committed errors. The hon. Member mentioned another case, of Lieutenant Brydges, who on the coast of Africa, had some words with a vice-consul, and offered to meet him on shore. He was tried by a court martial. Leading questions were put to the witnesses, and the result was, that he was sentenced to be dismissed from his ship, contrary, as he (Mr. Williams) contended, to the spirit and letter of the law. All the check he wanted was, that the navy should be placed in the same position as the army.
 SIR C. NAPIER  said, it was always understood that naval court martials were superior to similar tribunals in the army. The proceedings of the latter were open to revision by the Commander-in-Chief, which would not be tolerated for an instant in the navy, where the members comprising it would look upon such interference as an imputation upon the manner in which they had discharged the duties they were sworn to perform.
 SIR G. COCKBURN  said, the hon. Member (Mr. Williams) had made out the smallest case he had ever heard. He had said that even if courts martial were illegal, there was no redress to be had; whereas, if a court martial was illegal in its constitution, whatever its award, it went for nothing. A court martial was a court of honour as well as a court of law, and although the members were not lawyers, he thought that, generally speaking, their judgments were as good as those of other courts. The court martial upon Lieutenant Bridges was assembled legally; and as to legal questions being put at that court, the object of a court martial was to get at the truth. It turned out that the vice-consul was not "in the fleet," though on board the ship, and the man was restored.
 273
 SIR G. GREY  replied, that it was quite true that the Committee had not yet made its report, and until it was before the House he could not pledge Government to carry any of its recommendations into effect. He did not know what those recommendations might ultimately be. It was equally true, that a Committee of the other House had made a report; but he was not prepared to say whether any measures would be founded upon its important recommendations. One of them was, that some means should be adopted as to the proof of compliance with the Standing Orders, with a view to avoid the great inconvenience and pressure so fully adverted to in the document. It seemed desirable that a plan should be adopted this Session in order that it might come into operation in the next.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  said, the Admiralty had done right in appointing to a ship the gallant lieutenant who had been just named, but they had not so until the case had been brought before the House of Commons. There had been another instance of a court martial held at Bermuda, upon the commander of the  Alarm,
 MR. WARD  said, his hon. Friend had mooted at the outset of his speech a general question of importance, but had attempted to ride off upon two cases, one of thirteen years' date, and the other six years ago. He was not prepared to meet him upon these two cases. As to the lieutenants sitting on courts martial, that was a grave question for consideration; but it ought not to turn upon a particular case of a foolish squabble. With regard to the power of revising courts martial, what was to be done where they were held on distant stations? It would be impracticable; there must be a summary jurisdiction in such cases. As to referring courts martial sitting at the extremity of the world to the Admiralty at home, it was out of the question. The whole subject, would, however, receive the earliest consideration of the noble Lord at the head of the Admiralty.
 SIR J. R. REID  observed, that the West India packet which was to sail next day would carry out to the colonists there intelligence of the most melancholy kind that the West Indies had perhaps ever received. He did not hesitate to say that the course taken by Her Majesty's Government was full of the grossest injustice to those Colonies; but while he said this, he was compelled also to say, that the kindness of manner and the urbanity shown by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer commanded universal respect. Great injustice had, nevertheless, been inflicted on the West Indies, and he could tell the House that it had been decided that very day by merchants connected with these Colonies to abandon their estates, and not send out their usual supplies. He should not be doing his duty to those whom he represented, if he did not state this fact unequivocally and distinctly to the House. He would appeal to the justice, honour, and kind feeling of the House, whether a great interest like this ought to be sacrificed. He objected to the conclusion at which the House had arrived; he objected to the mode in which the question had been discussed, and also to the hurried manner in which in which it had been disposed of; and, he objected generally to the unjust, and cruel, and oppressive manner in which all connected with that great interest had been treated. He hoped the House would make some allowance for his expressing himself warmly, but his sentiments were most sincere; they were founded in truth, and every word that he had uttered came from his heart.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that amongst the many defeats he had sustained in that House, there was none that he felt more keenly than that which was conveyed in the decision of the House on Tuesday last. If by any opposition on his part he could hope to reverse that decision, his efforts would not be wanting; but when the majority was so large, he could not but be conscious that opposition was hopeless, and could only lead to irritation and a useless interference with the discharge of public business. He did not rise then for the purpose of renewing the debate of Tuesday last, nor for the purpose of answering—as
 249
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I thank the hon. Gentleman for putting these questions, and enabling us to state the intentions of the Government. The Government have very seriously considered the important question of the relation of landlord and tenant in Ireland; and no one is better aware than the hon. Member both of the importance and the difficulty of the question, because he has not only brought it forward for the consideration of this House more than once, but he has found that the first proposals he made required considerable alteration and modification. The late Government likewise turned their attention to the subject; and they introduced a Bill last Session, which I believe it was the opinion of the House of Lords could not be beneficially passed into a law; and they likewise introduced a Bill in the present Session, which was put aside by the dissolution of that Government. We have given serious consideration to that Bill, but we have found that there are so many objectionable points in it, that we could not bring it forward with a view to pass it into
 284
 VISCOUNT CLIVE  wished for a moment to call attention to the Bill for preventing the union of the sees of St. Asaph and Bangor, for the purpose of appointing a Bishop of Manchester. As the consent of Her Majesty would be requisite to its discussion, he begged to ask what course the Government intended to take?
 LORD J. RUSSELL : With respect to the subject alluded to by the noble Lord, my own opinion would be, that the safest course would have been to abide by the Report of the Commissioners; at the same time I feel that a Bill which has received the consent of the House of Lords, and to which I believe nearly all the bishops agreed, comes with a certain weight of authority into this House, and deserves to be very maturely considered. But I could not agree with the Bill now upon the Table, even supposing that I was prepared to depart from the Report of the Commission. It appears to me that it would not be sufficient and right merely to preserve the dioceses of St. Asaph and Bangor in their present state. What I should have to do would be either to abide by the Report of the Commission, or, departing from it, to consider the question with reference to other circumstances, the state of the parishes in those dioceses, and the boundaries of those dioceses, with a view to better episcopal superintendence. The Bill having been, as I have said, sanctioned by the authority of
 286
 VISCOUNT CLIVE  would not press the Bill to a second reading this Session, as the noble Lord was prepared to take the whole subject of episcopacy in England into consideration.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : A phrase has fallen from the noble Lord which makes it necessary for me to say, that what I propose to consider is not the state of the episcopate in general, but the amount of episcopal superintendence in particular dioceses, with a view to the propriety of abiding or not by the present boundaries of those dioceses.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  had no objection to reduce the import duties on those articles of provisions, &c., to which the right hon. Baronet had referred; and he had no doubt the Colonies would be ready to accept such an act of imperial legislation as a boon. It appeared to him that when they said they would introduce the flour and corn of other countries on the same terms as the flour and corn of Canada, and that they would admit sugar from Cuba and Brazil on the same terms as from Jamaica; the colonists were entitled to say that there were articles from the continent of Europe, or from other parts of the world, which they should like to have on the
 288
 MR. WILLIAMS  thought it unfair that any attack should be made on him by the supporters of the Motion now under consideration, inasmuch as that he had himself supported a resolution to the same effect on a previous occasion. He hoped that in the course of next Session something effectual would be done for ameliorating the condition of the soldier, and administering yet more to his comforts. Some alterations were certainly required in the in-
 313
 COLONEL T. WOOD  could not concur in everything that had fallen from the hon. Member for Coventry, and felt bound, in justice to the sergeants of the British army, to say that no class of men could discharge their duties with more firmness or consideration. But they could not afford to be familiar with the privates. They must keep up their authority, which would be completely lost if they were in the least to forgot themselves. With respect to their power, he bogged to remind the House that it was not in the authority of any non-commissioned officer in the British army to inflict punishment on men in the ranks. Non-commissioned officers in the French army, however, did possess this power. With regard to the question now under consideration, all that he would say on the
 314
 CAPTAIN LINDSAY  said, the total want of the means of education amongst the soldiery was the cause of all the crimes and desertions which occurred in the army. He maintained that normal schools, under efficient masters, were also most essential to a proper amelioration of the present condition of the army; and it was only by such means that the doing away of corporal punishment, and the diminution of crime, could be accomplished. Although the soldier was not absolutely discontented at present with his condition, he could not be, nor was he, satisfied with the long prospect of servitude before him, nor with the ultimate consequences of such prolonged service. Now, at the end of twenty-five years' service, and with good behaviour, he was entitled to his discharge if he wished it, and a pension of 5 d. d. d. 311
 COLONEL PEEL  having read most attentively every atom of evidence on both those courts martial, was of opinion, that instead of Colonel Whyte being a severe officer, he would be found, in regard to this man Mathewson, to have shown the greatest leniency. On the 15th of June, four days previously to Mathewson being tried by court martial, he was confined by the captain of his troop, and reported to the commanding officer for grossly disrespectful conduct to the captain of his troop. The commanding officer pointed out to private Mathewson the impropriety of his conduct, and stated that his repeated insolence would bring him to punishment. He then said that Mathewson was only a young soldier in the 7th, and that he would not punish him this time, hoping that his words would act as a warning, but that his crime would be blotted out, and no record of it remain against him. He (Colonel Peel) should not then trouble the House with any further observations on the question; but he begged to inform the House, that it was his intention on Friday evening to enter more fully into the subject.
 MR. WILLIAMS  said, he had only stated what had been deposed to by the man Mathewson before the coroner's inquest. That was a court of inquiry of the highest importance; and if a man came forward, and stated before that court what was untrue, that statement should receive an instant contradiction. He (Mr. Williams) did not at all impute anything to Colonel Whyte, but merely stated the case as it had appeared in the newspapers, and as given in evidence, he believed, word for word. He said, supposing such case to be true, that some change ought to take place in the internal management of the army.
 MR. V. SMITH  thought they were much indebted to the hon. Member for Montrose for bringing this subject before the House. The noble Lord the First Lord of the Treasury had stated that, if free institutions could not be given to all the Colonies, they could, at least, have free access to the Colonial Office. In the same manner it was of importance that they should have access to the Members of that House, and therefore he was glad that the subject had been brought before them. Of all the places under the British Crown, there was perhaps none where there should have been exhibited less of the appearance of a suppression of Catholic ceremonies as in Malta; the great majority of the inhabitants were Catholics, possessing about 200 churches, with 900 priests, and the whole supported entirely from funds supplied by the people themselves; the conduct of a Governor to-
 325
 MR. MACARTHY  remarked, that although the Governor had consulted the Roman Catholic authorities, that fact did not appear, until very recently, to be known either to the late or the present Secretary of the Colonies. From his knowledge of Malta, he suspected there was more interference with these ceremonies than now appeared before the House. Masking Blight be objectionable; and if it were, it might be put down by the proper ecclesiastical authorities; but he believed there had been an indirect interference with the Roman Catholic religion. He would relate a fact: in a college there the professor wished to have a Roman to teach the Italian language to the pupils; the Governor, however, refused to allow the Roman to be introduced, but insisted that if the Italian language were to be taught, it should be taught by a British subject.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought it was hardly fair to the Governor of Malta for any other question to be introduced than that which was the subject of the discussion. The introduction of a Roman to teach the Italian language had nothing to do with the conduct of the Governor upon this particular occasion; but if it had, a person to be in that situation must by law be a British subject, consequently the Governor could not do otherwise. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Macarthy) talked as if there was a settled design to put down the Roman Catholic religion in Malta; but nobody who had read the Papers on the Table of the House could for a moment suppose anything had been done that had the slightest tendency to disturb that religion. The Governor was acting in perfect concurrence with high authority in the church; and to suppose they would do anything to discourage the Roman Catholic religion was repugnant to common sense. Gentlemen seemed to mistake the common use of words. What had the Governor really done? A portion
 330
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  observed that Her Majesty's Government would not propose a single item which they did not feel themselves justified in proposing.
 MR. CRAVEN BERKELEY  hoped his hon. Friend would press the Resolution to a division, because the conduct of the Governor deserved censure. If he had been supported by the Roman Catholic authorities, he might not, in that case, have been blameable; but as the matter stood he was much to blame.
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, that before they came to a decision, it was right that the House should understand what would be the result of carrying the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose. The effect would be to censure the conduct of the Governor of Malta. He trusted, therefore, that the House, before coming to a decision, would bear in mind the circumstances of the case. The practice of masking on Sundays at the carnival was one which, to render it legal, required the annual sanction of the Governor. The Governor stated, that the people of Malta had been recommended to abstain from that custom from the pulpits of Roman Catholic churches; and they were recommended particularly to abstain from it on the last Sunday of the carnival, when one of the most sacred ceremonies of the Roman Catholic Church was performed, namely, the exhibition of the Host on the altar. The Governor knowing this fact, consulted the vicar-general, and that dignitary having said that the measure for preventing it was one of which all wise and right-thinking men would approve, he accordingly refused his sanction to this masking, not a refusal to walk in procession if they pleased, but a refusal to permit them to do so in masks on Sundays. Under these circumstances he asked his hon. Friend whether he would persist in a Motion, the object of which
 329
 MR. FOX MAULE  thought it would be far preferable to carrying on the discussion at that time, that the conversation should be dropped for the present. He was not at all surprised at the statement of his hon. Friend (Mr. Osborne), who had brought forward the question, nor was he surprised at the anxiety that had been shown to defend the conduct of Colonel Whyte, and to do away with much of what had been said in reference to him. He (Mr. Fox Maule) was most anxious to do
 317
 MR. FOX MAULE  observed, that his hon. and gallant Friend had stated that it was the intention of the late Ministry to look into the matter. [Captain LAYARD: I said, that I believed such was the case.] Had it been so, he should have imagined that the representative of that department in the late Government would have been
 303 304 305 306
 MR. HAWES  said, his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose stated, in commencing his speech, that he should confine himself almost entirely to the consideration of the disturbances that had taken place on the 22nd of February last; and, in imitation of that conduct, he would also limit his observations principally to these transactions, and not enter into the more general question broached by his hon. Friend who had preceded him. When he came to state the facts connected with these proceedings, he was sure the House would agree with him in thinking that the representations made to his hon. Friend
 323 324
 MR. B. ESCOTT  was at a loss to know whether the hon. Member (Mr. Hawes) intended to oppose the Motion or not. The hon. Gentleman had said, he saw no infringement of civil liberty in the proceedings. He maintained that both civil and religious liberty were infringed by them. [Colonel Fox: No!] The hon. and gal-
 327 Laughter.
 CAPTAIN LAYARD  said, that in again bringing under the consideration of the House this important Motion, of which he had already given notice, he had again to entreat the same kind indulgence and attention that had been before granted him—an indulgence which he felt would be required by the weakness of the advocate—an attention demanded by the goodness of the cause; and he felt that his hope of ultimate success, which had always been a strong one, was much strengthened by the alterations made by the last warrant, dated 13th December, 1845, and which was a strong move in the right direction, and for which he returned his sincere thanks to the late Secretary at War (Mr. Sydney Herbert), and he believed that feeling pervaded the army at large; at the same time he considered it had not gone far enough, and for that reason he meant to press his present Motion. It was no hastily formed opinion that he had come to, that a limited service would materially benefit the army and the country, as by that means, he felt assured, a much superior class of men would be found to enlist, and, consequently, less crime of every de-
 289 290 
 
 Years. Apprehension, Subsistence, & Escort of Deserters. Subsistence of other Soldiers in confinement Number of Rank & File in each year, exclusive of India. 
 1840–1 £2,634 £10,364 82,013 
 1841–2 4,385 10,779 80,970 
 1842–3 3,959 10,189 84,140 
 1843–4 2,874 10,213 88,737 
 1844–5 2,168 11,975 88,261 l. l. 291 "George Hill, a private of the 67th Regiment, now in Dublin, was brought up this morning for examination, relative to the confession which, it will be recollected, he made, that he was the murderer of Eliza Grimwood. Inspector Field, of the London police, was sent to Dublin to take charge of the prisoner. On the passage across, the prisoner maintained the most rigid silence on the subject of the disclosure he had made, and scarcely spoke until he arrived in London. The prisoner, on being brought into court, walked up with an erect and firm step to the place assigned for offenders. He was attired in a scarlet jacket and white trousers, the foraging dress of his regiment. He is rather a slender young man, about 25 years of age, of pale complexion. He betrayed no symptoms of insanity, and seemed perfectly collected. Mr. Traill said, your name is George Hill, and you are a private in the 67th Regiment. Is that right?—Prisoner: My name is George Hill, but I do not admit being a private in that regiment. If I am it is entirely by compulsion, for I abhor the service. Inspector Field was sworn, and stated that he was present at College-street police-office on Monday, 1st inst., when the prisoner was brought before Mr. Tyndal, and a document, of which the following is a copy, was read to him. The document was then handed to Mr. Trail, which was read aloud to this effect:—'The information of Jeremiah Maher, inspector of the B division of Dublin police: Between the hours of six and seven o'clock, on the 21st ult., the man now in custody, who calls himself George Hill, a private in the 67th Foot, was brought to the police-office, College-street, when informant and
 292 "On Tuesday (it stated), a private of the 60th Rifles, stationed in Dumbarton Castle, on being relieved from sentry at five o'clock in the morning, attempted to kill himself by placing the muzzle of his gun to his head, under the chin, and then discharged it. The poor fellow was so far successful. He discharged his musket, but did not kill himself. The ball entered at the lower part of the face; but in place of going up through
 293 294 d. s. 295 
 
 Regiments. Number of men who volunteered to other regiments in India. 
 13th Foot 447 
 2d Foot 312 
 40th Foot 421 
 57th Foot 327 These regiments not yet returned. 
 39th Foot 500 
 Total 2,007 
 JOHN MACDONALD, A. G. Adjutant-General's Office, April 30, 1840. 296 
 
 Periods. Cavalry. Infantry. 
 £. £. 
 Under 5 years' actual service 30 20 
 After 5 years' actual service, with one distinguishing mark 25 18 
 After 7 years' with one distinguishing mark 20 15 
 After 10 years' with one distinguishing mark 15 10 
 After 10 years' actual service, with two distinguishing marks 10 5 
 After 12 years' actual service, with one distinguishing mark 
 After 12 years' actual service, with two distinguishing marks 5 free 
 After 14 years' service, with one distinguishing mark 
 After 14 years' service, with two distinguishing marks, or Free, with the right of register for deferred pension of 4 d. 
 After 16 years' service, with one distinguishing mark 
 After 15 years' service, with three distinguishing marks, or Free, with the right of register for deferred pension of 6 d. 
 After 16 years' service, with two distinguishing marks, having possessed the second at least 12 months 297 "Nothing can be worse than the materials of which the army is composed. I do not mean they are all bad men; but a great proportion are taken from the worst ranks; they enlist from necessity alone." "Do you think, if the soldier was enlisted for a more limited period, it would tend to promote recruiting?"—"Yes; I found men who enlisted for limited service the best men; and I was always anxious for them to re-enlist: they came from a better class of society." "If giving commissions to privates would improve the description of recruits?"—"All improvements in the service would facilitate recruiting: we should get a better description of men." 298 299 Annual Register "Mr. Wyndham, in his military plan, professes to trust to the simple and obvious expedient of bettering the condition and prospects of soldiers, on the sound and universally acknowledged principle, that, whenever men are wanted for any occupation in society, they may be obtained for that service by holding out to them a suitable encouragement, and in no other way, except by compulsion. He argued that, if we were to have an army by voluntary enlistment, it is essentially necessary to improve the trade of a soldier, and to bring it into fair competition with a sufficient portion of the trades and callings of the lower orders; and till this was done we should be striving in vain in the hopeless task of persuading men to embrace a pursuit in opposition to those motives which usually actuate them in the choice of a profession. To reduce these principles to practice, his plan comprehended an improvement of the pay of a soldier, and a better provision for those persons who were disabled from further service by wounds, infirmities, or age. But the principal change which he introduced into the army, was in the term of the engagements of soldiers. Instead of an engagement to serve for life, he proposed that they should be enlisted to serve for a term of years. According to his plan, the term was divided into three periods, as follows:— 
 
 First Period. Second Period. Third Period. Total Three Periods. 
 Years. Years. Years. Years. 
 For Infantry 7 7 7 21 
 Cavalry 10 7 7 24 
 Artillery 12 5 5 22 At the end of each period the soldier should have a right to claim his discharge. If he re-enlisted, and served the second period, he should be entitled to a pension of 5 d. s. 300 "The ground upon which I principally supported it was," said he in his diary, "that it was repugnant to the principles of our Constitution that there should exist in it an army composed of an order of men quite distinct from the rest of the community, and who have given up those liberties which are incompatible with military discipline, never to resume them; that those who enlist for a limited period of time continue citizens, and have before them the prospect of once again enjoying their personal liberty and those privileges; that this not only renders the army less formidable to the liberties of the country, but much more formidable to the enemy to which it is opposed. I cited Blackstone, vol. 1, pp. 408, 414. On a division, the question was carried by a majority of 206 to 105, and the Bill was ultimately passed in the House of Commons on the 6th of June. However, in the year 1808 a clause was introduced into the Mutiny Act to permit men to enlist for life, by which means Mr. Wyndham's scheme of recruiting was practically annulled, and many of his plans for improving the condition of the soldier defeated. Shortly after the passing of the Mutiny Act this year, a general order (21st of April) was issued, of which the following was a copy: — 'His Majesty has been graciously pleased to direct that men (soldiers) who, under the provisions of the Mutiny Act now in force, enlist into the service for an unlimited period of time, shall, over and above all former bounty, receive the sum of 5 l. s., l. s., l. s., l. s. carte blanche 301 "Limited service has a tendency to augment the defensive strength of a country, and to promote economical and moral habits amongst the people. Unlimited service, which adds little to the defence of the country, has a tendency to dissipate national sympathies, and corrupt moral character, for, as it separates the soldier from the mass of the people, it alienates him from the interests of his country, and thereby commits him to the will of a military commander as his lord and master for life." "Had, in 1839 introduced a system of allowing soldiers to obtain their discharge at a price in proportion to their length of service; and although it was feared by many officers that the plan would very much disturb the regiments of the line, it was found to operate most beneficially. Speaking from the experience of the last ten years, he (Lord Hardinge) must confess that he agreed with the gallant officer (Captain Layard) that perhaps a shorter period of service might be advantageously introduced. The question was deserving the consideration of Her Majesty's Government." 302 "If you resolve to regard the army as a refuge for the destitute and desperate, and care not how dissolute its manners may be provided it fights and wins victories, then you had better leave things as they are, for no army can be more courageous than our own. But if you desire to cultivate the moral sense amongst your troops, that you may always be able to calculate upon them after victory, and give additional strength to the attachment which binds them to you, it will be wise to enter at once upon that course of military reform of which Captain Layard has indicated the first steps." "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to direct inquiry to be made, how far the reduction of the period of service in the Army from the present unlimited term would tend to procure a better class of Recruits, diminish desertion, and thus add to the efficiency of the Service."
 CAPTAIN LAYARD , from the assurance given, that the object of his Motion should have due attention, would not press it to a division.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, when the time to which the hon. Member for West Gloucestershire alluded arrived, he (the Speaker) would be better able to judge whether his remarks were in order or not.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  felt it his duty to state that it was not judicious on the part of the hon. Member for Coventry to make any allusion to a subject then under judicial consideration. With regard to the question more immediately before the House, when he looked at the condition of the British army, and took a retrospect of what it had done, not doubting but it would always accomplish great things whenever required, he was of opinion that very little alteration would be at all necessary in the way of reform. In fact, the word "reform" was a phrase he did not like. When things were well, it would be wise to let well alone—especially as the present condition and efficient state of the army gave sufficient proof that changes were not necessary. He would then say, beware of meddling with what was well. Being of that mind, he would advise that the affair before the House should be left in the hands of that man who was at the head of the army, who was fully competent to enter into the subject, and who was perfectly willing to do all he could to benefit the soldier and the service. All that concerned both could not be in safer hands. He questioned very much whether the Motion and the discussion it had originated, might not create greater dissatisfaction, and do more injury than benefit to the service.
 MR. LABOUCHERE , understanding that the hon. Member wished to know what were the Irish Bills at present on the Paper which the Government intended to proceed with in the course of the present Session, begged to state that they were these: the Exclusive Privilege of Trading Bill, the Rateable Property Bill, the Ejectments Bill, the Fisheries Bill, the District Lunatic Asylums Bill, and the Baths and Washhouses Bill lately introduced. There were also several continuance Bills which it would be his duty forthwith to bring in. As to the Leases Bill, he was not able at present to announce a positive determination whether the Government would be able to go on with it this Session. There were various objections to it; but he would state on Wednesday what determination was come to respecting it. It was the intention of the Chancellor of
 285
 MR. CURTEIS  had been more than twenty years the decided advocate for the abolition of corporal punishment in the army. With him it was no new theory. He advocated that abolition when it was not the fashion of the day. The statement, however, that was made by the gallant Member opened his eyes more than ever as to the great necessity that existed for a radical reform in the army. He had no idea until he heard that statement that such grievances did exist — grievances which required to be redressed. As regarded the Motion, he would advise his
 315
 DR. BOWRING , in seconding the Motion, said that he considered that his hon. Friend had brought forward the subject in a spirit of justice and moderation. The House should recollect that
 322
 MR. J. COLLETT  said, he had hoped that the hon. Member for West Gloucestershire (Mr. G. F. Berkeley) would have been in his place; but, although that hon. Gentleman was not present, he (Mr. J. Collett) wished to take the liberty of putting a question to the Speaker. He (Mr. J. Collett) had received the following letter from the hon. Member for West Gloucestershire:—
 "Sir—On Tuesday week I intend to call the attention of the House to the evidence, &c., given before the Game Laws Committee. You will perhaps be in your place to hear any allusion I may make to you.—Your obedient servant, "GRANTLEY F. BERKELEY."
 MR. HUME  would like to know what the Government thought of another Bill about the bishops, the Episcopal Revenues and Dioceses Bill, which stood for a second reading on Wednesday. How it got into the House he knew not, but it provided for the appointment of nineteen new bishops, and set out a list of them in detail, the bishop of Melton Mowbray, and so on.
 MR. HUME  was sorry to interpose a word before the Speaker left the chair, but there was a question so long before the House that he was unable longer to delay it. He also felt that unless he did bring it forward at the present moment, he might not have an opportunity of bringing it forward at all. Early in the month of March he submitted to the House a Motion, because he thought it better to have a return of certain documents from Malta, stating the facts with reference to what took place, rather than rely on private information he had received. The documents were now before the House, and their substance might be briefly stated. He did not think the House could pass it by without receiving from the Government some assurance whether it was by their countenance the Governor had interfered with the privileges of the people of Malta. Since the accession of the Colony to England, certain, he might call them innocent, amusements had been practised; and there had been no instance during forty-five years in which an interruption took place during the four days of the carnival, until this interruption by the present Governor. There was an impression that this interposition was an attempt to interfere with the Catholic religion, or to proselytise, and therefore it was that he wished to bring the matter before the House. He was sorry to say that the correspondence which he held in his hand was anything but satisfactory; and some of the statements in it were by no means consistent with the statements made to him, and which he believed to be true. It said that before he (the Governor) attempted to put a stop to the proceedings of the carnival, he heard it would be satisfactory to the Catholic bishop and the respectable portion of the community. He had a letter from some respectable parties there, stat-
 319 320 plaza, 321 "That, in the opinion of this House, and according to the Correspondence laid before it, relative to the proceedings in the Island of Malta during the Carnival Holidays in February last, the conduct of the Governor and of the Magistrates acting under his orders, in the interference with the long existing usages of the inhabitants of that Island, amount to an infraction of the rights and privileges guaranteed to the Maltese by the capitulation under which they originally became British subjects, and are also contrary to the true principles of civil and religious liberty."
 MR. HUME  had endeavoured upon a former occasion to show, that by limiting the period of service, a better class of soldiers, and a more respectable body of subjects, would be introduced into the British army, while fewer desertions would take place. If the term of enlistment were limited to eight or ten years, those who might have hastily joined the service, in a moment of thoughtlessness, would not desert, if they were assured of being able to obtain their liberty in a few years. It was the absence of any hope of a beneficial change that induced them to desert. The opinions of general officers went to show that limited service, and a greater regard to the social and moral improvement of the soldier, were the surest means of rendering him happy and contented. He begged the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government to take this matter into his most serious consideration, as it was a subject that loudly called for investigation and reform. If they wanted any illustration, he could refer them to the history of Norfolk Island, where it was found that the conduct of those men only was bad who had no prospect of obtaining their liberty. In fact, it was despair that, for the most part, led to those disgraceful scenes which had lately occupied public attention, and the details of which no person could have read without feelings of pain and indignation. If the legislators were the cause of those things, ought they not to look back and see what evidence they had of a better result from some other system? His own opinion of the great majority who composed our army, was that they would be better and happier if they were not subject to that lengthened period of service which had been aptly designated "a perpetual system of slavery." With respect to limited service, he thought that instead of the soldier paying a certain sum to obtain his liberty, he should be discharged without the exaction of any such demand. Holding those opinions, he would support the Motion of his hon. and gallant Friend; and if he were assured that the adoption of his proposition would effect reforms of so desirable a character, he would still cheerfully support them, even if it were found necessary, in order to do so, to double the estimates required for such portions of the service. He highly approved
 312
 MR. HUME  observed, that what he wanted was to relieve all the Colonies from imperial legislation on such matters, and to leave them to be judges of their own affairs.
 MR. MONTAGUE GORE  must say, that putting aside all opinions he might entertain with respect to what should be the punishment in the army, and merely looking to this particular case of Colonel Whyte, he thought he had been most unjustly treated, for he was only carrying out that system which he was bound to do: that system might be right, or it might be wrong, but with respect to this individual he thought he had been unjustly treated; and whatever opinion he (Mr. Gore) might entertain on the general question, he felt that with respect to Colonel Whyte he would be unworthy of a place in that House if he did not say that Colonel Whyte could not avoid acting as he had done, and that imputations had been cast upon him which were quite unfounded. He thought that sufficient attention had not been paid to the fact that Colonel Whyte was bound to do what he did, and he would be guilty of disobedience if he did not take the course he had taken. He (Mr. Gore) was of opinion that Colonel Whyte was a man of great humanity and high principles of honour, and he would bear his testimony publicly of the sense he entertained of his gallant and manly conduct, and he had merely acted according to the rules of the service.
 MR. BORTHWICK  observed, no misunderstanding could arise upon the opinion of the Secretary for the Colonies, or the Under Secretary; but he held a very different opinion as respected the letter written by Mr. Gladstone upon this business. That document appeared to him actually "dark from excess of light." The letter could not be understood. Each sentence contradicted the sentence which preceded it, and every member of a sentence did the same. No part or portion of this letter was grammatically constructed, and therefore if the Governor of Malta did not understand its directions, some excuse existed for him. But regarding the circumstances as they occurred, the question came, what were religious observances? A religious observance was said to have been disturbed. Masking was no religious observance surely, and therefore he did not see why the Governor should not have had the right to put this masking down. As the matter had stood, it really did not appeal that, previously to that evening, any communication had taken place on the subject, and therefore he could not think the Government blameable for not stating that communications had been made. At any rate the discussion would do good, for it would manifest to the people of Malta, that on the part of that House and on the part of the nation also, no wish existed to interfere with rights, customs, or immunities which they, the Maltese, had held.
 MR. BORTHWICK  did not see why the public money should be expended in print-
 287
 MR. P. HOWARD  thought it would be more prudent if the hon. Member for Montrose would withdraw his Motion. The people of Malta must feel, from the general tenor of this debate, that great consideration had been shown for their feelings. It was, however, rather unfortunate that it had not been announced to them that their religious guides had been consulted. However, the people of Malta would now learn from the announcement of the Under Secretary of State for the Colonial Depart-
 328
 MR. P. HOWARD  heard with great satisfaction the Government expressing its determination to diminish the severity of corporal punishment. Even a nation not very celebrated for the mildness of its punishments forbad to give more than forty stripes, save one. He was quite sure that any diminution in corporal punishment
 318
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  regretted that whilst the House was crowded when a pension, was to be granted, an Officer who brought before it the state of the army should have to speak to a beggarly account of empty benches. He did not think the Secretary at War had made any valid answer to the observations of his hon. Friend; but he drew some comfort from the conclusion, that this was to be one of the questions which the present Government were disposed to leave open. When calls were made for the abolition of the system of corporal punishment in the army, it would be well for the House to recollect that that system had been rendered necessary by the course which the House had thought proper to take with reference to recruitment for the army. In 1799 the pressing of felons for the army was not only legal, but was encouraged by Acts of Parliament; and at the close of last war our gaols and hulks were emptied to supply the army. If Gentlemen were determined on the abolition of corporal punishment, they must be prepared in some shape or other to pay for their humanity, and thus secure a better description of private soldiers. He knew of no better way in which this could be done, than by allowing enlistment for a limited period. It was on this principle that Mr. Wyndham's Motion, in 1806, proceeded, which provided for an augmentation of pay on the renewal of the term of service. He put it to hon. Gentlemen representing the economical interest, that they should stand up in their places and boldly declare that they were prepared to pay a larger sum for the maintenance of the army, in order to carry out the abolition of military flogging. In 1741, Lord Chesterfield submitted a Motion on the subject in the House of Lords; and in 1749, Lord Baltimore brought forward a proposal in that House, that the soldier should be entitled to his discharge after a period of ten years' service, on paying 3 l.; 309 310
 MR. BERNAL  hoped the hon. and gallant Member would not now press his Motion; for it would be but fair to give the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War, and the Government time to consider and digest the details of so important an alteration in the military system. The hon. and gallant Member ought to recollect that the present was but one point in a measure of general reform; for it could not be denied that the state and condition of the British army was forcing itself by little and little upon the consideration of the Legislature and the country. A limitation of the time of service was not the only change required; the necessity for a general revision was gradually forcing itself on the consideration of the Legislature, and would, in course of time, demand and obtain the most deliberate attention, and the most careful investigation. The condition of the soldier, he regretted to say, was in former days, a matter of very little if any concern. It was deemed of little consequence, provided he performed his routine of daily duty, whether his mind were a blank, and incapable of receiving any impressions calculated to raise him in the social scale. Thank God the day had at length arrived, when the question was not whether it was better the soldier should be a mere automaton, dedicated to a particular object, or a rational being intended for higher and nobler purposes. He hailed with the liveliest satisfaction the prospect that at last appeared to open for the soldier; and he did not entertain a doubt but that when those improvements would be carried into effect, those employed in the service would be rendered as happy and contented, as the service was useful and honourable.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  would not have thought it necessary to trouble the House with any further observations, were it not that an hon. Member had thought proper in his place in the House to give circulation to certain reports and  ex parte ex parte 316
 MR. EWART  thought the simple intimation on the part of the Governor, that he had the sanction of a high Catholic authority to stop the procession, would have been attended with the best results, by the removal of much bad feeling. The Maltese ought to have a representative government; and it would be impossible to allay discontent there unless they had such a Government. If they were treated fairly, they would be more faithful and more loyal.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  begged to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government, whether it were the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce any Bill this Session for the permanent or temporary protection of the interests of tenants in Ireland; and if not this Session, whether he could state the intentions of the Government as to the proposing of any such Bill next Session? and also to ask,
 283
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  then rose to complain of the increased expenditure occasioned by the enormous increase of late years in our naval and military establishments. The Expenditure for the Army and Navy this year amounted to 16,840,000 l. l.
 SIR D. L. EVANS  said, his hon. Friend (Mr. Hawes) had done the most he could for the Governor, by saying he had the sanction of the Roman Catholic authorities. But did the Roman Catholic authorities or the Governor take the initiative? Had any disorder occurred before? [Mr. HAWES: Yes. A number of complaints had been made, both by Protestants and Roman Catholics.] He admitted that Malta was not to be considered as a Colony; it was something of the nature of a fortress; and it was to us of great importance to maintain a good feeling amongst the people towards their Governors. Although they might not be ripe for a representative government, yet they might have municipal institutions.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, the House must be glad to hear the assurances given by the Secretary at War that Government would bestow every attention on this important subject, and entertained every desire to contribute all in their power to the comfort of the soldier, by giving him better accommodation in his barracks, and holding out inducements to improvement. The establishment of schools was of a recent date: he scarcely knew anything likely to prove of more use; and he might say the same of the libraries which were now supplied. With respect to the statements of the difficulties that stood in the way of limited enlistment, he could not perceive them. He had had himself experience of the inconvenience of very short enlistments; but there was a prodigious
 307 308
 SIR G. GREY  believed that the hon. Member who introduced that Bill (Mr. Frewen) stated at the time that he had brought it in consequence of the Bill of the noble Lord (Lord Clive); and as the latter was not be pressed in this Session, probably no more would be heard of the former. He (Sir G. Grey) rather thought the hon. Member had only wished to place before the House his view of the general subject, if the St. Asaph and Bangor Bill went on.
 SIR R. INGLIS  had not read the Bill, and he did not believe that the bench of bishops had been consulted upon it, or made acquainted with it. At the same time he was far from deprecating such a Bill, believing some measure upon the subject to be greatly called for by the necessities of the case.
 SIR R. PEEL  thought it would be as well not to prejudice the discussion upon the Bill; it seemed to have undergone great consideration by the careful selection of dioceses. It was satisfactory to see that the spiritual wants of Melton Mowbray had not been overlooked.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he did not quite understand one part of the plan laid down by the noble Lord. They were all aware that the duties on the import of several articles of subsistence, and of the first necessity, and on such articles as staves and certain kinds of timber, were greatly reduced by the Tariff of 1842, and that this was done uniformly by imperial legislation. The noble Lord had proposed, and he thought wisely, to make a still further reduction in the duties on other articles of first necessity—they were not many—the duty on wheat flour and several other articles still remained. Now was it not inconvenient that different rules as to those duties should prevail in different Colonies? What he did not understand was, why the noble Lord did not propose by imperial legislation to reduce in 1846 the import duties on those articles which were not reduced in 1842.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  moved the Second Reading of the Cheshire Returning Officer Bill, and in doing so begged to explain that Chester was a county palatine in itself, and that consequently until the passing of the Act 1 William IV., cap. 70, the writs were always directed to the Chamberlain of the County Palatine of Chester, as the Queen's writ did not run in the county. The 1st William IV., c. 70, abolished the practice; but, nevertheless, since then all the writs for the county had continued to be directed to the Chamberlain, and had been consequently perhaps irregularly issued, and all the hon. Members returned by the various constituencies had been elected under writs issued by that officer. As the practice could prevail no longer, it was necessary to pass the short Act which he had introduced on the preceding evening, under which, for the future, the writs would be directed to the sheriff of the county, or the sheriff of the county of the city of Chester, and former elections would be declared valid. He trusted that the House would allow the Bill to be read a second time, committed, and engrossed, and to be read a third time that evening, or as soon as possible after being engrossed, in order that it might be made law before next Saturday, when the writ issued for the city of Chester should be returned.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  replied, that although every one would admit the hardship, yet the question of landlord and tenant's relative rights was so complicated, that it was wholly impossible the hardship could be satisfactorily remedied.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that there was no doubt the evils resulting from smuggling were
 343
 An HON. MEMBER  moved that the House be counted, and there being only thirty-five Members present, it was adjourned at a quarter before Six o'clock.
 MR. HAWES  had received no account whatsoever of the affair alluded to by his hon. Friend; and the only punishment he had received accounts of, as having been inflicted for such an offence was fine and imprisonment, or imprisonment with hard labour. The circumstance, however, to which his hon. Friend had alluded, would receive attention and be inquired into, and by the next mail orders upon the subject would be issued.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  replied, that his attention had been called to the subject, and all he could say was, that he would endeavour to bring forward a measure which would remove the existing grievances, whilst preserving a due regard to the interests of Trinity College, as well as of the tenants.
 DR. BOWRING  begged to hand his hon. Friend the best evidence he possessed of the affair, the Hong-Kong newspaper.
 DR. BOWRING  begged to ask the noble Lord the question of which he had given notice, namely, Whether the attention of the Government had been called to the frequent application of flogging, as a punishment for petty offences, in the island of Hong-Kong, it being stated that no less than fifty-four persons were so punished on
 341
 DR. BOWRING  begged again to call the attention of the House to the subject of the Tobacco Duties. Upon a former occasion he had presented to them facts and figures, showing the enormous increase in the numbor of seizures which had taken place in the United Kingdom, and that five-sevenths of the whole amount of those seizures were connected with tobacco smuggling. Since the year 1842, the convictions under the excise laws had doubled in this country, and had become fivefold in Scotland, and they were chiefly for smuggling tobacco, for which a vast number of receiving houses had been established. He had shown them a publication, which contained 100 folio pages, of the names of sufferers under the penalties of the tobacco excise law. Those persons had been taken before the magistrates and imprisoned, whilst struggling in a successful contest against the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He wanted the House to look into the state of the law, and to inquire into the causes which occasioned so many people to be, under one particular Act, crowded into prison, whilst the public were placed under heavy charges to carry out the punishments to which they had been sentenced, with, as he believed, and as the facts would show, exceedingly little benefit to the revenue. He thought a duty of 1 s.
 MR. HUME  supported the Motion. The maintenance of a large coast-guard establishment, and the adoption of other means to prevent smuggling, were causes of a very great expense to the country.
 MR. MORGAN JOHN O'CONNELL  would take that opportunity of asking the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland, whether he would undertake to direct his attention during the coming recess to the subject of a petition from certain tenants of Trinity College, Dublin, together with the other landlord and tenant questions in Ireland, with a view to carry into effect the recommendations of the Landlord and Tenant Commission? He did not ask with the petitioners that their leases might be converted into perpetuities, but merely that such corporations as they held under might have larger and more extensive powers of granting leases.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  rose to ask the Attorney General if he would propose an Amendment of the law, affording means of obtaining compensation in the following case, viz.: in the poorer part of St. John's parish, Westminster, there are various persons who have resided for a series of years in the same dwellings without leases, relying on the good faith of their landlords that they would not be dispossessed; and whose families have been supported, and
 342
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  felt it to be his duty not to let the matter rest.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, Her Majesty's Government had every wish to introduce a Bill of this kind, and much consideration had been given to this and other measures of a similar nature; but, after due deliberation, they had come to the conclusion that it would be far better to postpone such measures till more time for consideration could be given to them.
 The EARL of LINCOLN , while he hoped there would be full opportunity given before the second reading to consider the whole subject, must even at that stage of the proceedings enter his protest against the Bill. The noble Lord, he assured him, could not be more anxious to better the condition of the poor, whether by improving their dwellings or otherwise, than he was; but he did not think the course about to be adopted by the noble Lord would effect the desired end, whilst it would very prejudicially affect the whole system of
 348 349
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, the whole system of the bankruptcy and insolvency laws of this country had, during the last eight or ten years, been in such a state of oscillation and transition, that it now presented a mass of confusion; and such an amount of suffering and pecuniary loss was inflicted by it upon the country as was almost incredible, so that an alteration in the law was imperatively called for. The great objects of a bankrupt and insolvent law, which ought to be to facilitate the means of getting possession of the property of insolvent traders, to prevent that property from the consequences of waste or fraud, and to protect the insolvent trader, were very inadequately obtained under the present system. He was glad to find that it was the intention of the Government to consider the whole subject, with a view to bringing in a large measure to amend the present system. That being the case, he would not press the Motion for going into Committee on the Bill, but would leave the question in the hands of Her Majesty's Ministers.
 MR. FREWEN  had stated that day week, in introducing this Bill, that he brought it in solely in consequence of the Bangor and St. Asaph and Manchester Bill, which had passed the other House. But as the noble Lord (Lord Clive) had withdrawn the latter measure, it was not his intention to press the present one, and therefore he asked for leave to discharge the order for the second reading.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  hoped this Bill was withdrawn altogether, and that its present withdrawal was not merely temporary, contingent upon the introduction of any other measure. He had never read a Bill so wholly objectionable from the commencement to the close. Why, it proposed nineteen new bishops. Now, on a
 347
 MR. HUME  considered that the Bill was a direct invasion of the principle so long recognised, the making the people dependent upon their own resources; and he strongly objected to it.
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, this Bill stood for the second reading that day. He had had great hopes that the measure, or some one equivalent to it, would have been taken up by the Government during the present Session, and carried successfully through the House. Since he came down to the House, however, he had learned that there was an indisposition to carry this or any similar measure during the present Session. He regretted this exceedingly, as it was in every respect desirable that they should have as many sources of employment for the people of Ireland as possible during the winter months; and he knew of none more profitable or beneficial than the reclamation of waste lands in Ireland on a large scale. If this Bill was postponed, he trusted that at the earliest possible period next Session, a measure would be introduced by Government for this object, as he was satisfied that without some such, scheme no satisfactory government of Ireland could be carried on.
 MR. MACKINNON  assented, and expressed a hope that the Government would be able so to mature a measure as to have it brought forward at an early period next Session.
 MR. MACKINNON , in moving the Second Reading of the Public Cemeteries Bill, observed, that the object of the measure was threefold: first, to prevent all interments within the precincts of large towns or populous places; secondly, to prevent dead bodies from being kept in the rooms of the poorer classes for an indefinite time—a practice which induced many pestilential disorders; and thirdly, to limit, in some measure, the exorbitant charges of undertakers and others, which the poor were unable to pay. The evidence given before the Health of Towns Commission had fully established the bad effects of permitting interments in towns, and of allowing corpses to be kept for several days in the same rooms with the living members of the deceased's family. To remedy these
 344 d.
 SIR G. GREY  felt that the hon. Mem
 345
 SIR G. GREY  said, with reference to this subject, he had received a communication from his noble Friend the Lord Chancellor, to the effect that he had under consideration a measure for the amendment of the bankruptcy and insolvency laws, which
 346
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to empower the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Woods to sell, on certain conditions, sites for dwellings for the poor out of the hereditary estates of the Crown; and another Bill, empowering the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Woods to sell, on certain conditions, sites for dwellings for the poor out of lands vested in them under Acts for the improvement of the metropolis. These Bills would, he considered, have a very beneficial effect upon the present most deplorable condition — so far as regarded the comforts of their habitations—of the poor. Several benevolent persons, having formed themselves into societies, had undertaken to build suitable lodgings for the working classes; and as, in the improvements frequently taking place, the poor were driven from miserable abodes into localities still more miserable, he thought it only right that the Crown, and the Commissioners under it, should have power to counteract a mischief to which they were, involuntarily, parties. As the law now stood, they could only grant leases at the full value; and what he proposed by this Bill to effect was, that the Commissioners should be authorized, for the purpose of providing dwellings for the poor, to dispose of the Crown estates upon such terms as might seem proper to them, and as further might be approved of by the Treasury.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : In proposing to this House that the Religious Opinions Bill should be read a Second Time, I will make some statements to the House of the nature of that Bill: It is a Bill to repeal certain penalties which are inflicted upon persons, either on account of professing certain religious opinions, or on account of certain practices with respect to their religious faith, which are supposed to be dangerous to the country. The greater part of those punishments will, I believe, be considered by the House as unworthy of remaining upon the Statute-book; and I will, therefore, only mention them generally, and will proceed to those two parts of the Bill upon which there may be some difference of opinion. In the first place, it is a Bill to repeal two Acts concerning the Jews. The first is an ordinance regarding the Jews which is supposed to prevent their holding land. That has been a question of considerable doubt, an therefore we thought it better to repeal that ordinance, and thus dispose of any doubt there might be upon the subject. The other Statute provides that the Jews shall wear a certain badge, a mark of degradation and inferiority which certainly the House will not wish to continue. The next class of Acts to which the Bill refers, are Acts which require the attendance of persons at public worship according to the usage of the Established Church, and inflict penalties upon those persons who attend public worship in other places than those of the Established Church. The first is the Act of the 5th and 6th Edward VI., which inflicts penalties upon persons who attend public worship in other places than those of the Established Church; for the first offence, imprisonment for six months; for the second, a year; and for
 361 l. præmunire; 362 363
 MR. V. SMITH  inquired whether any alteration had been made in Mr. Gladstone's arrangement for the appointment of an Assistant Under Secretary to the Colonial Department? Mr. Gladstone had appointed Mr. Rogers to the situation of Assistant Under Secretary to the Colonial Department, and proposed to pay his salary by a reduction in the number of the clerks, thereby doing injustice to those gentlemen, and injury to the business of the office. If the appointment were to be maintained, a better mode of providing the salary would have been to have come down and to have asked Parliament for the money. He wished to know whether the present Government intended to continue such an arrangement?
 The EARL of LINCOLN  said, that the appointment in question required a gentleman of the legal profession, and for that reason alone a strangor had been introduced into the office. The noble Lord had concurred in condemning the mode in which the arrangement was made; but his right hon. Friend, Mr. Gladstone, would have been glad to have adopted any other mode. He had had no wish to act harshly towards the clerks in the department, but had been anxious to carry out an efficient arrangement for the public service, without incurring any public additional public charge. As some severe comments had been made on his right hon. Friend out of the House in reference to this matter, he felt bound to say that his right hon. Friend introduced Mr. Rogers into the office, not because he was a friend of his own, but because it was absolutely necessary to have a lawyer in the situation, and the whole arrangement was made without additional charge to the public.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Bill arose from a case of absolute necessity; it was prepared by the late Government in consequence of great frauds having been discovered by the sale of spirituous admixtures on the premises of chemists and druggists. He had already stated to the House that certain amendments were proposed to be made in the Bill, which he understood to be satisfactory to a deputation which had waited on him. He would, therefore, propose that the Bill be now read a third time; that it be reprinted with those amendments, and the further progress of the Bill postponed until that day week, when ample time would be given for considering the measure, as amended, before it could finally pass the House.
 The O'CONOR DON  said, the hon. Member ought to have made his objection to this measure during the discussions on the repeal of the Corn Laws, when Sir R. Peel had introduced it expressly as a proposition
 371
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that having been for some time at the head of the department in question, he could agree only partially in the view which appeared to be taken of the matter by his right hon. Friend (Mr. Vernon Smith). It might be all very true that Mr. Stephen, as Under Secretary, had, until lately, required no assistance to enable him to perform the duties of the office, and Mr. Stephen had been for five years in the department; but the question was, in what manner the duties of the office could be best performed in years to come. Mr. Stephen's position was a peculiar one. Besides its general and miscellaneous duties, he was charged with the examination of all the colonial enactments passed in our various settlements. Now, he took it, that the mere statement of such onerous duties was quite
 367
 MR. HAWES  was not prepared to go into the general merits of the question; but, in the opinion of his noble Friend at the head of the Colonial Department, the appointment of Mr. Rogers was an efficient and necessary one. With respect to the general efficiency of the clerks in the Colonial Department, he could cheerfully bear his testimony. More efficient or able gentlemen were not to be found in any department.
 MR. ESCOTT  felt grateful to the noble Lord for completing the good work commenced by the late Lord Chancellor, and abolishing penalties the retention of which was a disgrace to the law of the land.
 CAPTAIN LAYARD  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Board of Trade whether Sir W. Pym, Superintendent General of Quarantine, had within the last two years been employed by Government to proceed to the Continent for the purpose of obtaining information on the subject of quarantines from the authorities of different places, or for some other purpose; and to know if he made a report on his return, and, if he made a report, whether there were any objection to its being printed, and laid on the Table of the House? And also to move that Government may institute an inquiry by competent persons as to the nature of the fever which prevailed last year on board Her Majesty's ship  Eclair;
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  felt bound to oppose this Bill, by his veneration for the acts and laws of his ancestors, and his attachment to the National Church, which the Bill went to undermine. At all events, he would enter his protest against it.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said that, in his opinion, the promised compensation to Ireland for the passing of the new Corn Bill, savoured very much of bribery. He agreed with the hon. Member for Salford, that Ireland ought to pay the cost of maintaining her own police.
 MR. PROTHEROE  would be sorry to see the broad gauge proscribed altogether. He did not speak as a scientific man; but he asked any Gentleman who had travelled by the Great Western line, if he had ever been conveyed with equal comfort, or on a railway where the carriages were larger, more commodious, or better ventilated? He (Mr. Protheroe) knew of none.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  hoped the hon. and gallant Member would remember that his ancestors established the Roman Catholic religion here, and that he would therefore have some veneration for it. The professors of that religion handed down to us every principle in the British Constitution worth contending for. He could not
 364
 SIR H. W. BARRON  said, he wished, pursuant to notice, to put the following questions to the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control: "What is the amount available of the debt and prize money since the last distribution in the year 1832 of the Deccan prize money? Have the Nagpore jewels, in the custody of the East India Company at Benares, been adjudicated, as set forth in the printed paper of the House of Commons as printed in the year 1838? When will the distribution of the debt and prize money take
 359
 MR. LABOUCHERE  then moved, pursuant to notice, for leave to bring in a Bill to provide for removing the charge of the constabulary force in Ireland from the counties, and for enlarging the reserve force; and to make further provision for the regulation and disposition of the said constabulary force. They would all recollect that the late Government had pledged itself to the counties of Ireland to introduce such a Bill. The Government had thought it necessary, after consulting competent authorities, to ask for the discretionary power of adding about two hundred men to the reserve body of the present constabulary force in Ireland. But these and all the other details of the subject, into which he did not then think it necessary to enter, would be better and more fully explained in the Bill itself than by any statement which he could make.
 MR. BROTHERTON  thought the principle of this Bill was objectionable. It was wrong, he thought, to ask such a town, for instance, as Manchester, which paid 30,000 l.
 MR. HENLEY  could not forget that, though the Bill had only just been printed,
 365
 MR. P. M. STEWART  complained that while it recognised the principle laid down by the Commissioners appointed to investigate the subject, namely — deprecating the broad gauge as highly injurious, and recommending the narrow gauge as being best adapted for the country, it yet went on to enact that the existing broad gauge should be doubled in extent; that 500 miles more should be added to that which was already laid down. He saw the Chairman of the Great Western Railway Company (Mr. Russell) present, and he gave him great credit for the spirit in
 369
 MR. SPOONER  insisted that the Bill ought not to be pressed at so late a period, when many Members had left town, like the hon. Baronet the other Member for Oxford (Sir R. H. Inglis), who found his health unequal to a longer attendance this Session. If the noble Lord persevered, he (Mr. Spooner) should feel it his duty to take all the steps that Parliamentary usages allowed, to oppose what he must call a most indecent act at that period of the Session. It was easy to say that bulls would remain as much illegal at common law as ever; but let the Attorney General state in what way a bull,  quâ
 MR. ESTCOURT  complained of the introduction of this Bill into the House at so late a period, when a great proportion of Members were naturally absent. It was only that day that the Bill had been in their hands. It certainly did not contain the objectionable clauses which had been proposed in another Bill (Mr. Watson's), interfering with the provisions of the Roman Catholic Relief Act; but still it proposed to abolish the law against the publication of bulls here—which had been prohibited by statute ever since the 13th Elizabeth; and upon that point the House was to decide at seven or eight hours' notice. He was no advocate for the existence of penalties which were not necessary for the protection of Protestants and the Protestant religion; but since legislation on part of the subject was to be postponed by the noble Lord, the whole subject might best be taken up together. He would move that the Bill be read a second time that day three months.
 MR. M. GIBSON , in answer to the first question of the hon. Gentleman, had to state that Sir W. Pym was employed by the Government to make inquiry into the subject of quarantine, and that he had made a report to the Board of Trade, which report had been already laid before Parliament, together with all the correspondence connected with it. With regard to the second question of the hon. Gentleman, he had to state that there had been an inquiry into the fever referred to
 360 Eclair
 MR. M. GIBSON  said, that the hon. Member had asked for the authorship of this Bill. He (Mr. Gibson) thought he might say with propriety that Parliament itself was responsible for the Bill, seeing that its object was to carry into effect a resolution adopted unanimously by both Houses of Parliament. He could not quite agree with the hon. Member in thinking that this measure would increase the evil of a break of gauge. The fact was simply this—there were a number of Bills which had been passed this Session, in which there was no special clause providing for a particular gauge; they were left to a choice of gauge, and this Bill defined the gauge upon which the companies were to construct their works, in order that the broad gauge should be limited throughout the country. It did not interfere with those companies that had a clause in their Bill providing for the particular gauge on which they should be constructed; it only provided that the railways for which Bills had been obtained without providing for a particular gauge, should be constructed in a
 370
 MR. WAKLEY  begged to state, that the chymists and druggists were by no means satisfied with this Bill, which, if passed, would place no fewer than 3,000 chymists and druggists under the Excise laws, and compel them to take out spirit licenses. Now, this was a very objectionable measure, and as it had been before the House only since the 27th of July, he
 368
 SIR J. C. HOBHOUSE  said, with respect to the first and third questions, he could only say, that the last distribution of the Deccan prize money was in August, 1834, instead of 1832; and if his hon. Friend wished for any further information, the best course he could take would be to move for a continuation of the return which on a former occasion had been moved for by his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose. With respect to the second question, he begged to inform his hon. Friend, that the subject had been submitted to the Queen's Advocate, and also to the standing counsel of the East India Company, and they were both of opinion that the jewels referred to were not prize, and therefore they had been returned.
 MR. HENRY BERKELEY,  in rising to second the Motion, said, hon. Members must feel that the march of public opinion on this subject had been so rapid that it was no longer possible to pass by the question, or attempt to sneer at those who brought it forward. Whenever a civilian rose to speak on this question, he met with a sneer. However, the march of intelligence and the decided state of public opinion rendered the advocacy of the proposition of his hon. Friend more easy now than it had been. After due consideration he had come to the conclusion that it was essential to the best interests of the service that a practice, abhorrent to humanity and disgraceful to mankind, should be abolish-
 398 399 "That in the captain's but a choleric word, Which in the soldier is rank blasphemy." 400 "In a certain regiment was a man of exemplary habits, honest, industrious, scrupulously punctilious in his military discipline and obeying orders, and so severe in censuring breach of discipline in others as to have acquired the nickname of 'Corporal Trim.' One day a visit from some friends caused him to break the golden rules of his whole military life; he got drunk, committed some act of gross insubordination, and was sentenced to the mildest punishment of the sort, and received a few lashes only. His former excellent character was now, however, the means resorted to by the envious and dissolute to taunt him with his present disgrace; his corporeal agony had ceased, but his mental anguish proved too severe for his constitution; the collapse of his moral energies caused the decay of his physical powers; he never held up his head again, and died in six months. The surgeon, of course, reported that he died of disease of the lungs, and a break up of the constitution. The regiment knew to a man that he died a victim to the lash." 401 402
 COLONEL PEEL,  in justice to Colonel White, wished to say a few words; but before he adverted to the unfortunate occurrence at Hounslow, he would express his opinion on the general question. If he imagined that any undue severity or harshness had been exhibited in this particular case, he should be the last person in the House to stand up as the defender of the person who had shown it. His own opinion as to corporal punishment, founded on the experience of several years' service in the best disposed regiments, was, that it was absolutely necessary, constituted as the army at present was, to maintain the power. If it were possible, and no man would wish it more sincerely than himself, so to raise and better the condition of the British soldier as to render his dismissal from the service a punishment, he should most heartily rejoice. But so long as it was necessary for colonels to retain in their service men of the very worst character, on whom every other species of punishment would be wasted, whose conduct must be of the worst example to their comrades, it was impossible to do without it. The punishment, however, was one which, he admitted, ought to be administered cautiously, and with judgment. It was a notorious fact, that those regiments which were in the constant habit of seeing corporal punishment inflicted usually looked on with indifference at its infliction; and it was to be feared that in such cases it was of little service to the individual, and did not produce any beneficial effect by way of example. Great sensation had in some cases been occasioned in the public mind by statements to the effect that men who were drawn up to witness the infliction of flogging, found the sight too strong for their nerves and fainted away; but, for his part, he would not hesitate to say, that if he were a colonel in command, and were obliged to have recourse to corporal punishment at all, he would very much prefer seeing, the men faint away by sections, to seeing them look on in dogged silence and stolid indifference. Having offered these remarks on the general question, he now approached the consideration of the circumstances connected with the late unfor-
 403 404 405
 MR. WILLIAMS  explained. He had not said that such was the man's offence. The circumstances as they appeared in the papers, and as they had been deposed to on oath by the man himself (Mathewson), were these. A sergeant called out to him to do something or another. Mathewson, on hearing the voice, cried "hollo!" The sergeant reprimanded him for using such a phrase. The man apologized; but on the sergeant persisting to reprimand him, he asked whether he wanted him to go on his knees? For this the man was brought before the commanding officer. Colonel Whyte reprimanded him, and the man rejoined by asking how he (the solder) was to address a sergeant? This was his offence. For this he was tried, and sentenced to receive 100 lashes. The statement appeared in the newspapers, and had never been contradicted.
 COLONEL PEEL  would have no hesitation in contradicting it. It was by no means an accurate version of the story. A few days before this offence, Mathewson had been confined by the commanding officer of his troop for grossly disrespectful
 406 407
 MR. WILLIAMS  confessed that he was shocked and disgusted with the statements which had been made respecting the practices which were permitted in the British army. The nation in which such a state of things was permitted to exist might call itself civilized, but the rest of the world would regard it as being in a state of comparative barbarity. The persons who were legally and constitutionally responsibile for such practices were the advisers of the Crown. The colonel of a regiment had no more power to flog a man than any corporal in the service. Powers had been given by Parliament to the Sovereign to issue such orders and regulations for the army as the Sovereign might think fit and necessary; but there was a special reservation with respect to the punishment of soldiers, that it was not to be such as to inflict injury on life or limb. It was further provided that the Secretary at War should sign every such order with his hand and seal. It was clear, therefore, that it was to the advisors of the Crown that the responsibility of these punishments properly belonged, and to them it should be practically attached. With respect to the proposition for reducing the number of lashes to fifty, he did not think that it would remedy the evil so much complained of. A flogging was not a less degrading punishment because it was limited to fifty lashes. Moreover, the change might not be conducive to humanity. One hundred and fifty lashes had been known to cause a frightful death; and fifty lashes might, under certain circumstances, be made to be as severe as 150 or 200. It very much depended on the weight and fashion of the instrument of torture. With regard to the late unfortunate event at Hounslow, it should not be forgotten that Mr. Wilson had unhesitatingly pronounced it as his
 408
 LORD J. RUSSELL : In rising to move the Order of the Day for the Committee of Supply, I will answer those inquiries which my hon. Friend the Member for
 375 376 377 "Military prisons have been established at— "England and Scotland.—Fort Clarence, for 200 persons; Weedon, for 100; South Sea Castle, for 80 to 100; Greenlaw, for 100 to 150; and Devonport, for 30. "Ireland.—Dublin, for 100; Cork, for 80; Limerick, for 80; and Athlone, for 40. "These are the old provost prisons used experimentally, but upon the new system. It is intended to erect entirely new prisons at Dublin and at Cork, and to maintain Athlone. "Abroad—Canada.—A prison erected at St. Helen's is nearly ready, if not quite ready, for occupation. "Gibraltar.—A part of the old provost prison has been converted into a military prison. Mr. Vouleks has been superintending the discipline, and a governor is now going out. "Ionian Islands.—Plans for a new prison ordered. "Malta.—Plans for converting St. Elmo into a military prison ordered. "Nova Scotia.—Plans for a prison at Halifax ordered. "Newfoundland.—A stone building on Signalhill proposed. Plans called for. "West Indies.—A Committee of officers ordered to report upon the works required for prisons and cells in the different islands. "Cape.—Inquiry as to best means of military imprisonment. "Mauritius.—Prisons to be erected. Plans called for. "Bermuda and China.—Plans and estimates called for. "Cells for short imprisonments have been certified at almost every barrack-station in this country, and at very many abroad." 378 
 
 A RETURN SHOWING THE RATIO OF CORPORAL PUNISHMENTS TO THE STRENTH OF THE ARMY DURING THE LAST EIGHT YEARS. 
 Adjutant-General's Office, July 27, 1846. 
 Years. Average Effectives. Number of Corporal Punishments. Ratio. 
 1838 96,907 894 1 man in 108 
 1839 103,152 843 1 man in 122 
 1840 112,653 874 1 man in 129 
 1841 116,369 925 1 man in 126 
 1842 120,313 862 1 man in 140 
 1843 123,452 637 1 man in 194 
 1844 125,105 645 1 man in 194 
 1845 124,252 659 1 man in 189 379 380 381
 COLONEL REID,  though unwilling to intrude on the attention of the House, would not shrink from a public duty because the question was a painful and embarrassing one. He was deeply interested in the efficacy of the profession to which he had the honour to belong, and to which he was warmly attached. He had served in the army for nearly thirty years; and, during some portion of that time, having commanded a regiment, he had necessarily acquired some experience as to the efficacy of punishments. If it was painful to a humane mind to reflect on a fellow creature
 419 420 421 422 d. d. d. d.
 COLONEL WOOD  expressed a hope that the hon. Member for Montrose, and those who, with him, were usually the advocates of economy in the public expenditure, would be prepared to vote the money that would be necessary to make the soldiers more comfortable in barracks. He could conceive nothing more calculated to promote discipline and good conduct among the troops. With regard to the question before the House, he might speak from personal experience. Though he at one time
 460
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the principal point, the limitation of the number of lashes, had been already settled by the directions to be given by the Commander-in-chief. As to the other part of the Resolution, the House could not then attempt to fix the offences for which punishment should be awarded. The Resolution appeared to leave the punishment for open mutiny, but not for insubordination, or violence to a superior officer that might endanger his life. They could not consent to the Resolution without further deliberation.
 MR. C. BERKELEY,  having been alluded to by the hon. Member for Finsbury, must, as an independent Member of that House, express his opinion of the hon. Gentleman in his capacity of coroner, in his conduct of the recent inquiry at Hounslow; and, in the remarks he was about to make, he assured the hon. Member he spoke of him only in his capacity as a public servant, and, therefore, as a man whose public conduct would be rightly and thoroughly commented on, and distinctly sifted. What then were the facts of the case with respect to the hon. Gentleman, and the subject of the inquiry he held? The death of a private soldier of the 7th Hussars had taken place at Hounslow; the hon. Gentleman was duly informed of it. [Mr. WAKLEY: Not duly informed.] The hon. Gentleman was informed of it, and he summoned an inquest to ascertain the cause of private White's death. Four medical men were applied to. The surgeon of the regiment made a  post mortem 444 "It is abundantly clear, from the medical evidence, that the cause of death, in the case of the soldier White, was not the lash; and even Mr. Wilson's evidence, although shaped to order, goes to prove this fact. That the effects of the lash penetrated through the mass of muscle (very considerable in the thinnest subjects) which flanks the spine, produced old adhesions, inflamed the pleura, the heart, its valves, carnæ columnæ, and leading arteries, besides engorging the left lung with serum, is an assumption so truly ridiculous in a medical point of view, that were it not for the approaching general election, and the dearth of popular subjects for electioneering purposes, I should be inclined to think the hon. Member for Finsbury demented, aud his garrulity at the Hounslow inquest a melancholy exhibition of an effete intellect." The Times 445
 MR. C. BERKELEY  rose to order. He wanted to know whether the hon. Gentleman had a right to make a second speech.
 MR. C. BERKELEY  wished to put a question to the noble Lord the Chief Commissioner of Woods and Forests. He had received a communication from his noble Friend, asking him to postpone his Notice of Motion on this subject, which stood on the Paper to-day. He was quite ready to consult the convenience of his noble Friend, if good and valid reasons for the postponement of the Motion were given; but certainly, unless good reasons were assigned for its postponement, he should not feel justified in acting on the suggestion of his noble Friend. He understood his noble Friend had been in communication with Her Majesty the Queen, respecting the erection of the statue of the Duke of Wellington upon the arch at Hyde Park Corner; and he wished to ask his noble Friend whether Her Majesty's own free and unbiassed opinion was, that She could not retract the consent She had been advised to give by the noble Lord who was formerly Chief Commissioner of Woods and Forests to the erection of the statue in that position, or whether his noble Friend had advised Her Majesty not to do so? If Her Majesty's own feelings had been acted upon in relation to this subject, he would have nothing more to do with the matter; but if his noble Friend had again advised Her Majesty as to the course which should be taken, he (Mr. C. Berkeley) would call upon the House to give Her Majesty what he conceived would be much better advice, and much more in accordance with real taste.
 MR. F. MAULE  said that he was much surprised at the announcement made by his hon. Friend the Member for Wycombe (Mr. Osborne) of his determination to vote for the Motion of the hon. Member for Bolton; for after one of the most conclusive speeches he (Mr. F. Maule) had ever heard proving how inexpedient it would be to deprive military tribunals of the power of inflicting corporal punishment, and showing how dangerous a step that would be with reference not only to the discipline of the army, but with reference also to the safety of the citizen, his hon. Friend had come to the conclusion that for the purpose of forcing the Government to take a particular step with respect to enlistment in the army, he would, by his vote, risk all the evils he anticipated from a total abolition of corporal punishment. The question before the House was one which it was at all times disagreeable to discuss. It was not a question which those who were entrusted with the responsibility of maintaining the discipline of the army could discuss upon fair and equal terms with those who took the purely popular
 430 431 "This must not occur again; and although I maintain my opinion as strongly as ever, that in the present condition of the army, flogging cannot be dispensed with as a mode of keeping up its discipline, still I will not sanction such an extension of that punishment as might lead in any case to a
 432 433 434 l. l.; 435
 CAPTAIN LAYARD  explained. It appeared by a return in the  Moniteur,
 CAPTAIN LAYARD  said, that instead of being disappointed at the course taken by the noble Lord, he rejoiced that so far this cruel description of punishment would be done away with; and considering for how short a time this question had been affected by public opinion, he considered that they should feel gratified that so much had
 409 410 411 412 413 s. 414 Treatise on Military Discipline, "1. That it is torture. All torture (said Sir
 415 416 "He had the other night expressed a wish to see a clause in the Bill, making it necessary that the persons composing a court martial should be unanimous previous to its passing any sentence. The noble Secretary at War had objected, that any factious subaltern might then, in order to acquire popularity, prevent any corporal punishment from being inflicted in the regiment. He did not know how it could be reconciled, that one out of five on a court martial, should not prevent a sentence, seeing that twelve men were required to be unanimous in our courts, before the slightest punishment could be inflicted. The improvement he proposed was only a palliative; and, perhaps, it would not be wise to attempt a reform in what was radically bad. He had attentively listened to what had fallen from the gallant officers in the army on this subject; but the only reason they gave for defending it, that he could discover, was, that it ought to be continued because it had existed. But this, he thought, was bad reasoning, and not such as should induce the House to continue such a degradation on our brave defenders. He had heard an officer say, that in his regiment some of the men were brought out so frequently to be flogged, that they were known by the name of the flogging-blocks; and this circumstance demonstrated that, so far from flogging making them better soldiers or men, no good could be derived from it; and as no benefit resulted from the revolting custom, it ought to be abolished as being a national disgrace, and as placing our army in its discipline and honour second to that of France." 417 "There can be no doubt," said Dr. Malcolmson, "of the truth of the principle that no punishment can be just, or, in the eye of God, lawful, which tends to impair the efficiency, injure the health, and shorten the life of the soldier, or which produces any effect that cannot be estimated by the judges when they assign a punishment for an offence. Let us recollect that soldiers are men of like appetites and passions with ourselves, and let us act toward them according to the dictates of humanity and the lessons of experience. Military law and military usages, where wisely and justly administered, like the law of God, do not desire the death of a sinner, but rather that he should turn from his wickedness and live. Good men may be made bad; but bad men will not be made good by degrading and depreciating them."
 MR. C. BULLER  thought the House would agree that no good could arise from following further the history of the melancholy event which led to the recent inquest; nor should he have risen to say a word on the subject but for a particular argument of the hon. Member for Finsbury, which seemed likely, if it could have any weight, to raise so false and injurious an impression, that he felt bound formally and distinctly to repudiate it, and point out its fallacy. The noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had stated that it had been determined by the authorities at the Horse Guards, with his consent—and he must bear testimony to the promptness and cordiality with which the Commander-in-Chief gave his consent—to diminish to fifty the number of lashes to be inflicted by any court martial; and that was a great diminution; but, then, said the hon. Member, "how do we know that may not be evaded by making an alteration—a fraudulent alteration in the nature of the instrument by which the punishment is to be inflicted?" [Mr. WAKLEY: I did not say "fraudulent."] No doubt the hon. Member did not use that word; but would not the alteration be fraudulent? He did not mean to charge the hon. Member with accusing the Commander-in-Chief or the Government of that deliberate fraud. The hon. Member disclaimed it the moment it was put into words; but he would see that, in order to find fault with the arrangements of the Government, he was led in reality to attribute to them what would be a disgraceful and wicked fraud. The hon. Member had said that one cat was very different from another; and then he left the House to infer, that though nominally a reduction of lashes would be made, yet by some trick the authorities at the Horse Guards, who were supposed to thirst with an infernal kind of zeal for excessive corporal punishments, would inflict a much more severe sentence, by altering the instrument of punishment, and lengthening the duration of it. Now, he must say that, not only in the conduct of the noble Lord on this occasion, but of every person who had any voice in the matter, there was nothing that would at all justify the House in supposing that they made the alteration with any unwillingness, much less that they would be guilty of so palpable a fraud as this. From his own communications with the noble Duke at the head of the Horse Guards, he must say, that he never saw greater promptitude and greater good will in effecting an alter-
 449 450
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  was sure the House would receive with sovereign contempt a proposal coming from such a man as the hon. Mover. From such a man only could it emanate. The service at least would rejoice in the reflection that the hon. Member never did belong to it; and when the hon. Member said that it was composed of the outcasts of society, the service would equally rejoice to know that he never could belong to it.
 MR. GOULBURN  was sorry to be called on, after the statement made by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, to give an opinion on the measure proposed by the hon. Member for Bolton. There was something in the opinions of the noble Lord, which he thought, to the mind of every reasonable man, must have been in the highest degree satisfactory; and he did not think it desirable, either for the discipline of the army or for the public feeling, that the question should be agitated as it had been in the course of the evening. But he must say, that, of all the speeches made on the present occasion, that which had fallen from the hon. Member who had just sat down, as well as the vote which he proposed to give, was the most indefensible. The hon. Gentleman told them that the army was composed of men who were the very outcasts of society. He denied that proposition; but he was now dealing with the hon. Gentleman's arguments. He said the army was recruited from the very outcasts of society—that we were a commercial nation, and could not find hands for the military and naval services otherwise than from that low class of society; and, having condemned the army as receiving men from the lowest and most degraded classes, the hon. Member said he would not allow that species of punishment which, however unnecessary with regard to educated men, and men advanced in civilization and the cultivation of their intellect, was the only way in which they could keep under control men who were devoid of any sensibility but the sensibility to punishment. And the hon. Member had told them that these men were selected from the lowest society, by another class of men who were wholly unfitted for the duty of governing them. [Mr. BRIGHT: The right hon. Gentleman has mistaken my argument.] Well, he hoped he had mistaken the hon. Gentleman's argument. The question of apportioning punishment to crime was, under any circumstances, one of considerable difficulty; and when that question was agitated in a popular assembly, there was always a tendency to consider rather the suffering of the criminal, than the object of the punishment. Indeed, the tendency of men generally was to look to the sufferings of the criminal, rather than to the object of the punishment, and the causes which rendered that punishment necessary. But if
 454 455 456
 MR. GOULBURN  called on the hon. Gentleman to state when he (Mr. Goulburn) had been in favour of the infliction of 300 lashes?
 MR. GOULBURN  said, the question then before the House was the total abolition of flogging.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, it was more convenient that he, rather than his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell), should answer the questions of the hon. Gentleman. It was a somewhat unusual course to ask the Government to state their reasons for proposing a measure which was not actually under discussion; but he was obliged to the hon. Member for affording him an opportunity of making a short statement on this subject. He could assure his hon. Friend that the step the Government had determined to take with reference to the measure to which he had alluded, had not been resolved on without mature consideration. He had not altered any opinion he had ever held with regard to the Arms Act. He considered that many of its provisions were most objectionable; and the working of the measure had not tended to change the unfavourable opinion he had originally entertained of it. He must state, however, to his hon. Friend and the House, what was the position of the Government with regard to this measure. They had come to the conclusion that it was impossible altogether to dispense with it; they were satisfied that they would not be justified in leaving Ireland without some of the provisions contained in that measure; and he believed that this feeling was en-
 374
 MR. CURTEIS  said, since he had been in Parliament he had done his utmost to procure the abolition of corporal punishment. He would abolish it in the army, the navy, the prisons, and the public schools. The country was under obligations to the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) for the advance he had made in the right direction. Having been asked to join an association for promoting the abolition of corporal punishment, he (Mr. Curteis) had declined, on the ground that he had it in his power to express his views in that House; but if it would be any accommodation to the noble Lord, he should have much pleasure in transferring to his Lordship a ticket of admission for the platform, to a meeting which was to be held on the subject upon Wednesday week. He mentioned this circumstance only to show the resolution of the country. He would recommend the gentlemen of the Horse Guards to put their house in order; for undoubtedly, in a few years, they would have to concede to public opinion. The country expected that the Horse Guards would make their preparations, so that in the course of a few years corporal punish-
 461
 DR. BOWRING  never rose under emotions of such heavy and painful responsibility as now oppressed him. He did justice, as all would, to the tone and temper in which the noble Lord had addressed the House; but it was to him (Dr. Bowring) a matter of grief and disappointment that the noble Lord had come to the conclusion at which he had arrived. It might have been hoped that public opinion, which had removed such a mass of the abominations connected with military flogging in our past history — that opinion being now again called into energy, and reaching every bosom—would have so influenced the Government as to persuade them that the total abolition of military punishment by flog-
 382 383 Notes and Recollections of a Professional Life, "After the termination of the expedition to Holland in the year 1799, the 5th Regiment was established at Silverhall Barracks, in Sussex, where a marauding soldier of the light company broke into a neighbouring farm under the cover of night, severely wounded with his bayonet the woman of the house when she tried to save some of her property, and perpetrated as much outrage as a single man without accomplices could well inflict. There can be no doubt that such a ruffian should immediately have been given over to the civil power, and hanged, or executed before the assembled troops by sentence of a general court martial; but he was brought before a court martial of the regiment, and sentenced to receive a thousand lashes. When brought up for punishment, he stripped as if in scorn, and presented as fine a model of compact form, hard muscle, and dark thick skin, as ever I beheld. The drummers were well-grown sturdy lads, who had always performed their duty well, and to them, after the punishment began, he particularly directed his abuse, daring them to do their worst, for they would never extract a single groan from him. Seven hundred and seventy-five lashes were most severely inflicted, when, perceiving from his countenance alone that nature was giving way, I had him taken down and carried to the hospital. In a few weeks he was reported cured, and the commanding officer declared that the sentence should be inflicted to the utmost lash. He was accordingly brought out again. It was winter, and the snow was on the ground. He was tied up with his back to the wind, and the punishment began. At the first lash the newly-organized skin gave way, the blood streamed down his back, and he who, on the first infliction, was all defiance, now writhed and cried out. As the flogging proceeded the lash became clogged with blood, which at every wave of the drummer's arm was driven in showers by the wind over the snow-covered ground; his cries became actual yells, and the integuments of his newly-cicatrized back were cut literally in pieces. I stopped the punishment when he had received sixty lashes; but his second cure was now a very different affair.
 384 Military Miscellany "For eight years it was my disgusting duty to flog men at least three times a week. After a poor fellow had received about one hundred lashes, the blood would pour down in streams, and fly about in all directions, with every additional blow of the cat; so that by the time he had received three hundred, I found my clothes all over blood from the knees to the crown of the head. Horrified at my disgusting appearance, I have, immediately after parade, run into the barrack-room to escape from the observations of the soldiers, and to rid my clothes and person of my comrade's blood. Here I have picked and washed off my clothes pieces of skin and flesh that had been cut from the poor sufferer's back." "Men have declared to me," says an officer, "that the sensation experienced at each lash, was as though the talons of a hawk were tearing their flesh off their bones." The Times "He was a fine young man, but being given to habits of intemperance, and the use of insubordinate language, the officers, it was said, were determined to make an example of him. He was accordingly tried by a regimental court martial, and sentenced to receive 100 lashes. That punishment the writer saw inflicted. The victim was tied with cords by the wrists and legs to four staples driven into the wall of the riding-school (not to a ladder), and being a fleshy man he had not received six lashes before he began to show signs of suffering, and prayed the colonel to forgive him. In a few more minutes his cries and groans were really soul-sickening. Sentries were sent round to drive the civilians from the barrack walls, lest they should hear them; and he who, perhaps, had never called upon his Maker seriously before, now did so most vehemently, to deliver him from that agony; his words still ring in my ears—'Christ Jesus, have mercy upon me! What is this for? Oh! what have I done to deserve this?' And in his dreadful writhings he drew one of the staples out of the wall; but they flogged on, never minding, until his head fell back, and it appeared to me that he received the last twenty-five lashes while in a state of insensibility." 385 The Times Early Years and Late Reflections: "One of the severest operations of surgery is that for the stone, which, when skilfully performed, is not, upon an average, more than a few minutes in hand. Whereas a soldier has not unfrequently been fixed to the halberds under the lash for more than an hour; and every lash, until the sensibility of the parts may have been destroyed with their texture, was, perhaps, equivalent to the incision through the skin in the operation to which I have alluded." animus "Mr. Guthrie has recorded the case of a soldier who, in the regiment of which he was surgeon, had received in the course of his service 15,000 lashes." "I, being an independent officer, and being anxious to do my duty, was determined to see the law properly administered; the consequence was, that 50 lashes under my superintendence were equal to 1,000 under any other man's ever before in the Colony. The lashes administered by others had been always conducted under the superintendence of parties who were liable to bribes; consequently the scourger, though you would think by looking at him that the force of his arm was
 386 "I ordered the cats to have a handle about 2 feet long; I had five lashes put to them of whipcord, and on each of those I had about six or seven knots. I stood by, and saw every punishment inflicted myself; and in cases where the scourger did not do his duty, I adopted the system, as has been the practice in His Majesty's army, of having the scourger brought up to account for his relaxation of duty; and when the scourger discovered that I was determined that punishment should be duly inflicted, I found that, by superintending myself, 25 lashes, under my surveillance, had the same effect as 1,000 under any other person's hand. "I have seen a drummer in the Coldstream Guards weeping, unnerved, and unable to strike with vigour during the whole 25 lashes; the drum-major continually beating him with his cane to keep him to his duty." "Edwards, in the end of 1781, was sentenced to receive fifty lashes. He had got drunk, and otherwise misbehaved. In the army this number is accounted next to nothing. So much, however, did this small punishment affect him, that, notwithstanding every degree of attention to his case, it was upwards of three months before he could bear his cross-belts, or even move his arms to
 387 "Henley, for desertion, received 200 lashes only; acute inflammation followed, and the back sloughed. When the wounds were cleaned, and the sloughed integuments removed, the back-bone and part of the shoulder-bone were laid bare. I never had seen so much of the muscular parts destroyed in any case from punishment before… It was upwards of seven months before he was so far recovered as to be able to do his duty." "In 1803, at Chatham, a private of the 9th Regiment, having been found asleep on his post, was tried by a court martial, and sentenced to be flogged. The soldier was a fine-looking lad, and bore an excellent character in his regiment. The officers were much interested in his behalf, and it was said they endeavoured to prevail upon the general in command to give his case a favourable consideration, but without success. All the troops were assembled to witness the punishment, and during the infliction I saw the drum-major strike a drummer to the ground for not using his strength sufficiently. The man's back became black as the darkest mahogany, and greatly swelled. He was taken down at the recommendation of the medical officer, after he had received 229 lashes, and sent to the hospital, where he died in eight days, his back having mortified. I have witnessed 700 lashes inflicted, but I have never seen a man's back so black and swelled." "A medical officer, who is officially present at a military punishment, is placed in a most unenviable situation, being in some measure held responsible for the consequences of the injury thereby inflicted, which responsibility is obviously unjust, inasmuch as the punishment is too uncertain in its operation for any medical officer to ascertain the boundaries of danger. Moral feeling, age, strength, nervous irritability, climate, previous disease, organic defects, and other circumstances, many of which it would be impossible for the most skilful and the most careful to detect, may render a punishment fatal, which had been intended to be but moderate or lenient. No medical officer can answer either for the immediate or ultimate consequences of this species of corporal punishment. Inflammation of the back, or general fever, may occur after a very moderate infliction, which may terminate fatally, notwithstanding the greatest diligence and attention on the part of a well-informed, conscientious medical officer." "It is generally supposed, that the surgeon who is present at a military execution is responsible for its consequences: this is not legally true, and it is physiologically impossible; the punishment is too uncertain in its operation to allow of any me-
 388 Paris and Fonblanque, "Let a medical officer bear in mind, whatever his sentiments may be concerning the nature of the punishment, that he has nothing to do with the merits of the case; and if the prisoner is able to endure the award, he has no business to stop the course of law or justice. If he gives way to his feelings once or twice, he will find himself unpleasantly situated, unless he can show satisfactory cause for his interference."— Forensic Medicine, by Dr. J. Gordon Smith, "I once attended a corporal punishment, and suggested at what I considered due time to the commanding officer that the punishment should be suspended; but no attention was paid to my recommendation. The following case is a remarkable example of disregard to the suggestions of a medical officer: Dr. G—, surgeon to the — regiment, officially attended the punishment of a soldier in an island in the West Indies, who had been sentenced to receive 500 lashes. When about 250 lashes had been inflicted, Dr. G— recommended that he should be taken down, but the commanding officer lost his temper, and censured the surgeon for interfering; he at the same time declined to suspend the punishment. Nay, more, while the punishment was going on he continued to reprimand the medical officer for interfering, and finally ordered the adjutant to put him under arrest, which was done, and he remained under arrest until, in consequence of an appeal to the general officer, through the principal medical officer, he was liberated, having been confined for about ten days." "The position of the surgeon is degrading to the noblest art to which human talent can attain, the art of healing, when the attendance of a medical man is rendered necessary, not to assuage pain and relieve suffering, but to ascertain the extreme limit of human endurance." 389 "We tolerate," says Sir Samuel Romilly, "this species of punishment, this refinement of cruelty; we permit a fellow creature to be driven to the very verge of existence, a surgeon standing by to feel the pulse of the sufferer, and to pronounce at what moment exhausted nature can bear no additional infliction. Then, when his soul is about to forsake his body, and to leap into eternity, then, indeed, the poor wretch is taken down from the halberts, and removed into an hospital, where he is left, his body more at ease, but his mind still upon the rack, reflecting that the faster his wounds heal, the nearer he is to a renewal of his sufferings, and that his life is thus cherished by his tormenters only that it may be again subjected to their torments." 390 "That the deceased soldier, Frederick John White, died on the 11th of July, 1846, from the mortal effects of a severe and cruel flogging of 150 lashes, which he received on the 15th of June, 1846, at the Cavalry Barracks on Hounslow Heath, at Heston; that the said flogging was inflicted upon his back and neck, under the sentence of a district court martial, composed of officers of the 7th Regiment of Hussars, held on the 10th of June previous, duly constituted for his trial. That the said court martial was authorized by law to pass the said severe and eruel sentence; that the flogging was inflicted upon him by two farriers in the presence of John James Whyte, the Lieutenant Colonel, and James Low Warren, the surgeon of the said regiment; and that so, and by means of the said flogging the death of the said Frederick John White was caused. In returning this verdict, the jury cannot refrain from expressing their horror and disgust at the existence of any law amongst the statutes or regulations of this realm, which permits the revolting punishment of flogging to he inflicted upon British soldiers; and at the same time the jury implore every man in this kingdom to join hand and heart in forwarding petitions to the Legislature, praying in the most urgent terms for the abolition of every law, order, and regulation which permits the disgraceful practice of flogging to remain one moment longer a slur upon the humanity and fair name of the people of this country." "The brutal and demoralising practice of manflogging has been resorted to in two cases at De-
 391 "There is not an instance in a thousand," says Dr. Jackson, "where severe punishment has made a soldier what he ought to be; there are thousands where it has rendered those who were forgetful and careless, rather than vicious, insensible to honour, and abandoned to crime." "After an experience of thirty-one years' service," says Major M'Pherson, of the 99th Foot, "during the early part of which period I witnessed much military flogging, I have no hesitation in saying that I never knew a single instance of a bad character being reformed by it. I beg to express my firm belief that any mode of punishment is better than corporal punishments." "The lash when used judicially is a vile expedient, for every such exposure is the loss and ruin of the man. It has destroyed many a gallant spirit, and never reformed a bad one; for, however contrite and repentant the culprit may have been before this public disgrace, he is contrite no longer. Malignity and disaffection then take possession of his mind; for he feels that he has been disgraced and treated like a beast. It hardens the criminal of mature years, and makes the youth malignant and cowardly, or reckless. Let it henceforth be expunged from the rules of disci-
 392 "I have seen many hundreds of men flogged, and have always observed that when the skin is thoroughly cut up or flayed off, the great pain subsides; and they bear the remainder without a groan. They will often lie as if without life, and the drummers appear to be flogging a lump of dead raw flesh. The faces of the spectators (soldiers) assumed a look of disgust; there was a low whispering sound, scarcely audible, issuing from the apparently stern and silent ranks—a sound arising from lips that spoke not, but that sound was produced by hearts that felt deeply." "I have known" (says an old soldier in the  Sketches and Tales of a Soldier's Life "I, in common with ninety-nine hundred parts of the officers of the army, considered corporal punishment as the sole security against every military distemper, and as the sole guarantee for the efficiency and good regulation of the army. It is
 393 "It is the duty of Government at once to put rewards and punishment into full activity and in a complete manner, Thus the last will soon become obsolete; and this is the safest mode that can be adopted for the abolition of flogging." "The martial laws of England are the most barbarous which at this day exist in Europe. The offender is sometimes sentenced to receive 1,000 lashes; a surgeon stands by to feel his pulse during the execution, and determine how long the flogging can be continued without killing him. When human nature can stand no more, he is remanded to prison (hospital), his wound—for from the shoulders to the loins it leaves him one wound—is dressed, and as soon as it is sufficiently healed to be laid open in the same manner, he is brought out to undergo the remainder of his sentence. And this is repeatedly and openly practised in a country where they read in their churches and in their
 394 Blackwood's Magazine, 395 "Within the last half century the lash was in universal requisition. It was then the approved maxim that whipcord made the soldier; and the commander who spared the whip was to lay his account with having a bad regiment. In fact, the cruel discipline of the army outraged human nature, and stained the national character. The fruits were strikingly characteristic of the seed—universal depravity, desertion, crime, the halberds. Unless in the strictly national regiments, where character still bore its value, the common soldier
 396 "No practice can be long maintained which is really contrary to the well-considered judgment and settled feelings of the country." 397 "Flogging is so easy and compendious an operation, saves so much trouble to the instructor; and the power is so gratifying to human pride, that whoever has flogged men, women, or children (for the exception of the negro woman is yet a very recent one) will continue to flog as long as he is permitted to insist upon its being the perfection of human discipline." "That in the opinion of this House, the punishment of Flogging in the Army ought to be immediately abolished."
 MR. BRIGHT  had listened with great attention to the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down; but he found that the only thing the hon. Gentleman had attempted to prove was, that under the proposed change the punishment might be safely inflicted without any great chance of permanent injury to the individual on whom it fell. Now, if this question had been discussed two or three months ago, that speech might have been delivered without contradiction; it might then have been said, that 150 lashes was an amount of punishment not beyond what a man of strong health might endure; but the hon. Gentleman stated farther, that the measure of the Government and of the Horse
 451 452 453
 MR. HUME  said, it was satisfactory to him to hear that the right hon. Gentleman was contented with fifty lashes. He could remember the time when nothing less than 300 lashes would satisfy the right hon. Gentleman; but the present were times of great changes, and this was one of them; and he (Mr. Hume) was glad to see that the right hon. Gentleman had changed. When it was said that hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House were opposed to ameliorating the condition of the soldier, he repudiated the charge. He had always been favourable to anything calculated to effect that object. When Lord Howick had brought forward his plan for establishing libraries and rewards in the army, there was nobody in the House more ready to give the plan support than he had been. He was sorry to hear the statements of the hon. Member for Windsor (Colonel Reid) as to the want of means of cleanliness on the part of the soldier. There ought not to be a barrack without a proper supply of water. What was the use of officers visiting the barracks if they allowed such a want of water and such, improper ventilation to prevail as had been complained of? He thought the Secretary at War, or some other of the military authorities, ought to make an inquiry into the matter; and he would also suggest to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, that if he would give directions to snpply, as far as possible, the means of
 457 458 459
 MR. HUME  said, in 1833, the number having been reduced from 1,000 to 300, the right hon. Gentleman did not vote to reduce the number.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  then moved the following Resolution as an Amendment:—
 "That it shall not be lawful to inflict corporal punishment by flogging, on any private soldier, corporal, or non-commissioned officer in the Army or Militia of the United Kingdom, save for offences committed on a line of march, mutiny, or theft, and that in all such cases the number of lashes be limited to fifty."
 MR. B. OSBORNE  believed striking an officer would be considered mutiny. He should go to a division.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, as it was his intention, in the event of the failure of the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Bolton, to press the Motion of which he had himself given notice, for the abolition of corporal punishment, save for offences committed on a line of march, mutiny, or theft, and in those cases to limit the number of lashes to fifty, perhaps it would be convenient to the House if he were to make the remarks upon the present occasion which he intended to have made upon his own Motion. He had listened with great pleasure to the remarks of the gallant Officer who last addressed the House, with reference to the great discomfort which the soldier suffered, as well as to the pleasing testimony which he bore of the good discipline in his own regiment. He (Mr. Osborne), however, could not exactly agree in the deduction which the gallant Officer drew from that circumstance, that the time had not yet arrived for the abolition of corporal punishment. He thought, if the Motion of the hon. Gentleman below him should not be carried, that the House would exercise a wise discretion in making the experiment of the abolition on the Household Brigade, to which the gallant Officer had once belonged; and in which regiment there was a better class of men than in any other. The gallant Officer had warned the House not to be led away by any hasty and ill-digested feeling of sympathy. In that warning, he (Mr. Osborne) concurred; for he felt that, in dealing with this subject, they should endeavour to take a practical view of it; and not attempt to lead away the House with inflated statements of what took place forty years ago. Agreeing, as he did generally, with the hon. Member for Bolton, he did not like the raw head and bloody-bone style of oratory. They must deal with the question practically. The hon. Gentleman who seconded the Amendment had thought proper to lead away the House by asking, in the most pathetical manner, whether it were not a shocking thing that the drum which followed the soldier to his grave, should upon another occasion be employed to
 426 427 "The framers of the statute under which the Penitentiary is now governed acted erroneously in remitting the power of inflicting corporal punishments." boulet, boulet History of the Middle and Working Classes, 428 "The army is mostly filled from the same set as the gaols; muscular strength and not character is required; hence the low rate of wages. The army has long been the lowest trade in this country, being the common sewer for unemployed labour." l. 429 "With respect to an army in the field or on a line of march, how could you apply the punishment of solitary confinement?" "I think it impossible in such cases. I would allow corporal punishment by drumhead court-martial and prevôt court martial, and by no other."
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  wished to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government as to his intention to propose the renewal of the Irish Arms Act. A great many Irish Members were detained in town in consequence of the notice which had been given on this subject; and he hoped, therefore, that the noble Lord would now state his reasons for proposing the renewal of the Act, and whether it was the intention of the Government to retain the registration and branding clauses?
 MR. NEVILLE  thought every one would hail the present reduction in the amount of corporal punishment as a step towards its total abolition; those who wished to continue the power of inflicting it, only did so from a fear that the abolition might militate against the discipline of the army. The reason for that apprehension was alleged to be the present state of the soldier: let them, then, instead of recurring to obsolete horrors, strain every nerve to elevate his condition. He had listened with great interest to the speech
 418 l. l. l.
 MR. WAKLEY  said, that the hon. Gentleman had read an extract throwing out a foul imputation on him, to the effect that Mr. Wilson's evidence was "shaped to order," and he had instructed his solicitor to move for a criminal information on the subject against the publication. [Mr. C. BERKELEY: It is not my imputation.] No! But the hon. Gentleman had
 447
 MR. WAKLEY  hoped he might be allowed to offer a few words in refutation of what had been stated by the hon. Member. In the first place, the hon. Member complained that he excluded the medical officers from the  post mortem 446
 MR. WAKLEY  observed, that the gallant Commodore had spoken of fifty lashes as if he thought them a treat. The hon. and gallant Officer seemed astonished that any one should be dissatisfied with the proposition of the Government; but had he tried fifty lashes himself? He was astonished—but on another account he was astonished—after what had transpired, that the punishment of flogging was not to be immediately and for ever abolished. Public opinion willed it; public feeling demanded it; and that demand was confirmed by the public judgment. He could assure the House, from his own personal observation, that the public feeling on this subject was infinitely stronger than it was on the subject of the repeal of the Corn Laws. The feeling in favour of the abolition of flogging was, indeed, universal; and he would say that so strong a feeling existed on the subject, that it was perfectly impossible for that House to resist it. On many accounts he felt great reluctance to engage in this discussion; and he would not have interfered in the debate but for some remarks which fell from the Secretary at War. He had very little to complain of in the remarks of that right hon. Gentleman; but the House would excuse him for adverting to two points which had been mentioned by the right hon. Member. In the first place, the Secretary at War had appeared to throw out an imputation that there had been something wrong in the mode of regulating the proceedings at the recent inquest at Hounslow, because some of the private soldiers had been permitted to give evidence. Now what course, he would ask, was the officer who presided at that inquiry to pursue? When he arrived at Hounslow, the hour for the burial of the deceased man was appointed. Was any effort made, by the military authorities
 437 438 post mortem post mortem 439 post mortem 440 441 442 443
 SIR C. NAPIER  said, that if the punishment of flogging were abolished in the army, it must also be abolished in the navy; and though he might not be taking a course that would increase his popularity, he felt bound to oppose the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Bolton. Indeed, after the proposition of the noble Lord to fix fifty lashes as the highest punishment to be inflicted in the army, he was quite astonished that the hon. Gentleman had brought his Motion forward at all. The hon. and learned Gentleman (Dr. Bowring) proposed, as he understood, to abolish flogging entirely, even on the march or in the field. Now he would ask that hon. Gentleman, whether he had read the Duke of Wellington's despatches? It would be admitted that the Duke of Wellington had commanded the finest and most strictly disciplined army in the world; but the noble Duke stated, that though he could place the most perfect reliance on his troops before they went into action, yet after the fight was over and a victory was gained, he could not find what had become of his army. He believed that was stated in several parts of the noble Duke's despatches. Now, if corporal punishment was prohibited in the field, how was the soldier to be restrained from plundering, from murdering, from disobedience to his officers—he might almost say from shooting them? If it was so difficult to keep troops in proper order under a severe system of discipline, how were they to be restrained without any discipline at all? He recollected that during the Peninsular war a division of the army which entered the town of Leiria broke completely adrift from their officers; and the town presented a scene of the most horrible devastation and plunder. The Duke of Wellington went into the town, and, seeing the disorder, he ordered the provost-martial to seize upon a British soldier and a Portuguese, both of whom were hung without
 436
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  would state precisely how the case stood; and he hoped his hon. Friend would consider there was sufficient reason for postponing his Motion, at least for not bringing it on that night. After what occurred in the House the other day, he (Lord Morpeth) made a communication to the sub-committee of the Wellington testimonial, to which he received a reply on Tuesday afternoon. On Wednesday morning he waited upon Her Majesty; and in the evening he sent a reply to the communication of the sub-committee. Yesterday he received from the sub committee the following note acknowledging the receipt of his letter:—
 "The sub-committee of the Wellington memorial beg to acquaint Lord Morpeth that they have
 373
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, if the hon. Gentleman would ask him with regard to any Bill that stood on the Paper for that day, he should be prepared to give him an answer. With regard to the general measures connected with Ireland, the hon. Gentleman had on the preceding day asked a question respecting some particular Bills, and had received a detailed answer from his right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland. [Mr. B. OSBORNE: I received no answer. I spoke of the District Lunatic Asylums Bill.] That Bill did not stand for that day; but when it was in the Paper his right hon. Friend would be ready to give the hon. Gentleman an answer. The hon. Gentleman said, the only Bill the Government seemed desirous of proceeding with was the Arms Bill; but that was not quite the fact. The object to which the attention of the Government was specially directed was to provide work for the unemployed poor during the next autumn and winter, and, therefore, they had looked very carefully over the Bills that were passed in the early part of this Session. All those Bills had undergone a very minute revision, and it was intended to carry similar Bills—they had already been introduced—through the House, which should provide, in the best way they could, employment for the poor during the autumn and winter. With regard to the permanent Irish Bills, the Government had reserved them for the next Session of Parliament; and as to those Bills which were continued from year to year, and which it would be dangerous to stop at once without consideration, the Government proposed to keep them on foot in order that they might be discussed fully next Session. With regard to the Arms Bill, when it was brought in by the late Government, he said he thought it would be necessary to continue it another year.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had already announced to the House that on Monday he should move that the House go into Committee on the Customs' Duties Act, in order that he might then propose the reduction the Government intended to make in the duty on rum. With regard to the other measures referred to by the hon. Gentleman who spoke last, he did not see the possibility of carrying them through this Session. All he could say was, that inquiries on the subject were already commenced, and no time should be lost to ascertain what it was thought possible to do; and at an early period of next Session what could be done should be done.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had no reason to believe that any error had been committed, and he was not, therefore, prepared to make such a declaration as was suggested by the hon. Member.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  doubted whether the Government had the power to alter any duties which had been imposed by Act of Parliament.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, the mistake was not unimportant, for, under the existing law it was not improbable, judging from present appearances, that within a fortnight, beans would be dearer than wheat, and that in a month this duty would amount to an actual prohibition. He wished to ask his right hon. Friend whether he would have any objection to exercise the discretion which he (Mr. Vil-
 467
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  called the attention of the House to the petition of Robert Maule Gillies and George Horne, respect-
 466
 MR. HENLEY  considered, when the subject was mentioned, that a mistake had been committed, but he did not think it of any material importance; and he thought it would be unwise to disturb the measure recently passed on account of such an error.
 MR. P. M. STEWART  said, that since this measure was announced, a packet had gone out to the West Indies and returned from there, and, from the information that packet brought, it behoved the Government to prepare without delay those other measures upon which the success of this one depended—he meant measures extending the principles of free trade to the Colonies. All that the West India interests asked was to be able to compete with the foreigner, but which, in consequence of the unwise legislation of that House, they had been prevented from doing since the Emancipation Act was passed. He understood that a number of bills of exchange which had been forwarded from the West Indies had been refused acceptance, under the apprehensions that now prevailed.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, there were several Irish Bills before the House, but he had been unable to get any information from the Government as to what Bills they intended to proceed with. The only one they seemed prepared to go on with was the Arms Bill; but he thought they had better give them all up.
 SIR J. R. REID  said, before this Bill passed, he wished to say that he retained the opinion which he had on a former occasion expressed with regard to it. Since that time he had spoken with a great many individuals who were interested in this question, and they entirely concurred in the sentiments he had then uttered. Every day convinced him more and more of the truth of those sentiments. Still, the West India interests were prepared to carry this Bill into effect, if they might have more labour—if molasses were allowed to be introduced—and if rum were put upon an equality with British spirits.
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  said, with respect to the two Bills for sites for dwellings, which stood for a second reading that day, as he understood the noble Lord formerly at the head of the Woods and Forests had some objection to make to them, and considering the very advanced period of the Session, and considering also that general questions of a sanitary nature must come under the notice of Parliament next Session, he thought it better not to press these Bills upon this occasion; and he would therefore move, that they be read a second time that day month.
 MR. WILLIAMS  seconded the Motion. He hoped that the Secretary of State would not refuse the Committee, for he thought that such evidence had already been brought forward as called for inquiry; which would be much more satisfactorily conducted by a Committee of the House than by a commission. The cruelties practised in the prison drove the prisoners to suicide; and he said that no country professing Christianity ought to allow such cruelties to exist. The inspectors had not done their duty. Their appointment was new; they were a great cost to the public; they were appointed because the system before their appointment had not been satisfactory. Yet now abuses came to light
 554
 COLONEL PEEL  was sure, after the speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down, the House would do him the justice, as a Member of the late Board of Ordnance, to listen to the answer which he had to give to the charges which had been brought forward. The Motion contained two allegations—first, that the Board of Ordnance had refused an inquiry into an alleged malversation of stores; and second, that they had dismissed Toner from the service. He would take the charges in the order in which they were stated. Now, he denied that the Board of Ordnance had shown any indisposition to inquire into the charges. On the contrary, a committee was appointed, before whom Toner appeared as prosecutor, and cross-examined all the witnesses. He admitted that the proceedings of the committee were most fair. The result was, that Mr. Jones was found to have committed some irregularities, and he was dismissed. Toner, it appeared, had been in the habit for two years of making notes of what occurred in the yard, with a view to subsequent complaints and charges, and on the occasion of this inquiry he was distinctly asked whether he had any other charges to make? His answer, in writing, was, that he had not. The hon. Member, however, complained that Toner was subsequently dismissed under an order of which he had never heard. Now, it appeared that Mr. Read, a civil officer in the dockyard, having had reason to complain of disrespect on the part of the labourers when they came to be paid, issued an order that they should come into his office uncovered. Toner complained of this as a piece of presumption, and he was the only person who did not comply with the order. Mr. Read referred the matter to the Master General, whose answer was, that the order must be obeyed by Toner, as well as by the other men. This minute of the Master General was communicated to the workmen, but Toner still did not observe the order. Lord Bloomfield and Colonel Berney then investigated the case, and ordered Toney to
 560
 COLONEL FOX  said, the present Board of Ordnance were fully of opinion that Toner had been very properly dismissed in consequence of his having been excessively insolent and disrespectful to his superior officer.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  lamented that this subject should have been broached in the absence of the Secretary at War, whose presence in another place was rendered just then imperative by the nature of his duties. He trusted that the gallant Officer would not on the present occasion press his Motion, but would, under all the circumstances of the case, be satisfied with the assurance which he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had no hesitation in giving him—that the matter was one which would most certainly engage the serious attention of Her Majesty's Government. There could be no
 565
 MR. MOFFATT,  seeing the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his place, begged leave to ask him what the intentions of the Government were with regard to proposing a substitute for the duties which were hitherto levied in pursuance of an annual Bill on Sugar? A distinct promise was given by the Government when it was proposed to make the Sugar Duties permanent, that some large amount of duty to be agreed to annually should be substituted; and he (Mr. Moffatt) wished to know if the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer was now prepared to name the articles on which such annual duty was in future to be levied?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was not prepared to say what duties the Government would submit to the House for annual revision and imposition. It had been repeatedly stated, during the recent discussions, that it was exceedingly inconvenient that these annual discussions should take place on the Sugar Duties; and it was highly desirable, before any duty was fixed upon to be annually discussed, that the matter should be very carefully considered. There was hardly any one duty, for the reduction of which a Motion had not been made during the year; and it became an important question how in such a matter they could best consult the interests of the country. The Government would therefore take time to consider what these duties should be, and he would not, till next Session, state what their decision on the matter was. He thought the House would have so much confidence in the Government as to allow this matter to stand over till that time.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had, in the first place, to thank the hon. Gentleman for the terms of approbation in which he spoke of the measure of the Government with regard to sugar. He regretted the painful position in which many of those connected with the West Indies were placed; and no one was more anxious, consistent with his public duty, to do all in his power to afford them relief. With regard to the question immediately before the House, he denied that the principle of protection was involved in it. The difference in the customs duty on rum and the excise duty on British spirits, whether rightly or wrongly, he would not stop to examine, was imposed for the purpose of equalizing the fiscal burdens on these articles. The British distiller formerly said that unless the duty on rum was 2 s. d. 569 570 s. d. 571 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. s. d. 572 
 
 1801 1,059,000 1824 9,000 
 1804 180,000 1826 27,000 
 1809 1,063,000 1836 27,000 
 1811 150,000 1842 11,000 
 1113 460,000 1845 13,000 
 1814 90,000
 MR. BERNAL  observed, that the noble Lord the Member for the city of London had, while the Chancellor of the Exchequer was addressing the House, used in an under tone the words "in justice to this country." Now he was quite ready to argue the question upon the principle of justice to this country. If the Polish corn-grower had greater facilities for raising corn, and was subject to fewer burdens than the English agriculturist, that, as the House had already determined, was not a sufficient reason why the corn of the foreigner should not compete upon equal terms with home-grown grain. Why, then, should the charges which the English distillers had to pay be taken into account? As to their "plant," as it was termed, no doubt that was expensive; but so were a farmer's farm buildings. He wished to say nothing of West Indian distresses or West Indian misfortunes. We must go on, and not look back. The  causa causandi, s. d. s. d. s. d.,
 LORD J. RUSSELL  observed, that his hon. Friend seemed to attach great importance to what he had said, while his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer was speaking. When he used the words, "in justice to this country," all he meant to say was, that the Government ought to have a little time to consider the matter, in order to enable them to do justice to England while they did justice to the Colonies. Let it be supposed that his right hon. Friend was to admit rum into Scotland at a duty of 3 s. d., s. d. 575 s. d.
 MR. REDHEAD YORKE,  with every inclination to support the Government whenever he could do so with honour and consistency, could not vote with them on the present occasion. He had divided against the Bill before, and could not do otherwise than oppose it now.
 MR. PIGOTT  had been an active opponent of this measure when first introduced, and any amendments in it were of his introduction; but the question he had now to ask himself was this, what was best for the people of Ireland, and he must say that it appeared to him best for their interest not to tamper with patchwork legislation. In 1843 he was of opinion that there should be no legislation on this subject; but legislation having been introduced, they should now consider what was most advisable to be done under all the circumstances. Some hon. Members had advocated the renewal of the old Bill; but that would be most distressing on the people, for under that Bill no blacksmith could carry on his trade without registering his forge. If he did so, he subjected himself to a severe penalty. He was not, therefore, for renewing the old Bill, nor for introducing a new Bill to last merely till the 1st of May. He thought it would be a most mischievous arrangement to have the present form of arms legislation, then a new form to last for a few months only, and ultimately another and a totally new one, which was to supersede all the antecedent ones, for thus the people of Ireland would be exposed to the annoyance and infliction of three separate codes within the period of three or four months. Within the course of the last six or twelve months but very few registrations of arms had taken place in Ireland, so that it was natural to suppose that the greater number of fire-arms had already been registered in Ireland, and that there would be very little trouble or annoyance on that account between this and May. Under all the circumstances of the case, he could not but think that the least vexatious and in all respects the best course towards the Irish people was, to let the present Act remain for nine months longer on the Statute-book, on the express understanding that it was not to be a permanent enactment, but that at the end of that period the entire system with respect to arms should be revised and placed on a different footing.
 SIR R. FERGUSON  did not at all view this matter in the light in which it had been represented by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, He did not regard this measure as a symptom of infatuation on the part of Government. Considering the disturbances that had so recently agitated Ireland, and the near commencement of winter, was any Gentleman prepared to say, distinctly and decidedly, that we ought to put no limit to the introduction of arms and gunpowder into Ireland? By the late Government there was no attempt to use the powers for limiting the importation of gunpowder, &c.; and this was the reason why the law had become in a great measure useless. An attempt had been made to argue the question on constitutional grounds; but that view of the question had been given up by the hon. Members for Louth and Rochdale, and indeed he could not see, considering all the circumstances, on what constitutional ground the question could be debated. He would most decidedly give his support to the Government by voting in favour of the Bill.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I rise, Sir, after the many attacks which have been made on the Government for the proposition to continue this Bill, to speak, first, as to the point of consistency on which hon. Gentlemen have dwelt so much; and next, as to the nature of the proposal which we have now made to the House. The hon. Member for Finsbury holds it to be totally inconsistent in me to vote for the continuance of any Bill of some of the clauses of which I disapprove. Now, Sir, the question which I had to consider was, whether I should propose a continuance of this Bill, moving the omission of those clauses of which I disapproved; or, whether I should propose to drop the Bill altogether? Now, if I had proposed to drop the Bill altogether—which is the opinion of the hon. Member for Montrose, and I dare say of the hon. Member for Finsbury also—I should have been acting a more inconsistent part by far than any which he has imputed to me; because when this Bill was proposed in 1843, I said I could not vote with those who proposed that there should be a Select Committee, or in support of Resolutions or Motions the effect of which would have been the rejection of that Bill. My course was to state that the Bill consisted of two parts—one was to prevent improper persons having arms, the other to prevent the introduction of gunpowder and ammunition into Ireland; and after that statement I went on to say that I found the noble Lord had truly stated that precautionary measures on this sub-
 589 "With regard to the first object in 1838, I being then in connection with the Government (being, in fact, Home Secretary), inquiries were made as to whether the power could not be safely abandoned, and whether for all useful purposes a mere registration of arms would not be sufficient. The result of those inquiries was to convince the Government of Ireland, and to convince me likewise, that the effect of such a measure would most probably be to increase outrage, to increase faction fights, and to throw difficulties in the way of the police, who were seeking either to repress offenders or to bring offenders to punishment. With regard to the state of Ireland in 1838, and at the present time, I see no reason why we should now refuse that power which we thought necessary in 1838. With respect to the other power, it certainly could have been better parted with in 1838 than in 1841." 590 591 592 593
 LORD SEYMOUR  asked the noble Lord whether he would consent to strike out of the Bill those clauses which he voted against when he sat on the other side of the House? He had no wish to embarrass the Government; but he thought it desirable to know if they would reject those odious clauses against which they had voted and divided the House fifty-one times.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  had been asked a question by his noble Friend (Lord Seymour) to which he was anxious to give an answer. Undoubtedly the Government were of opinion that the best course for the House to adopt now was, without entering into the particular clauses of the Bill, to continue the existing Act. When he was asked whether he would agree to alter certain clauses, that would be to go through all the details; but if the noble Lord meant two or three of the most objectionable, to any such proposition he would give a ready hearing and consent to proper Amendments.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the hon. Member for Finsbury asked—whether he would consent to leave out "these clauses." It was difficult to give a straightforward answer to such a question. What did the hon. Gentleman mean by "these clauses?" He had, however, no hesitation in saying, that there were certain clauses in the Bill to which he had strongly objected, and that he had no objection to their being omitted. As the original Bill was to be reprinted, he must take some days to consider the matter.
 MR. WILLIAMS  said, he had heard no reason assigned why the Irish constabulary should be placed upon a different footing from the police of this country. The expense of that force was upwards of 400,000 l.,
 MR. C. BERKELEY  moved that the Bill be read a first time that day three months.
 MR. G. BERKELEY  had no hesitation in answering the hon. Gentleman, and in saying that he did most decidedly intend to call the attention of the House to the game laws. He also intended to allude to all such persons as had in his opinion brought those laws into contempt; and as he thought the hon. Member to have been peculiarly guilty on that head, he certainly did intend to allude to him.
 MR. G. BERKELEY,  in answer to what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman the Member for Athlone, begged to say that if he only told him what allusion he had made, he should be very thankful. He was not aware that he had made an allusion at all, except calling his attention to the fact that in alluding to the game law evidence he might by chance allude to him—that was all he had said.
 MR. ESCOTT  confessed that he had never heard a speech which surprised and amazed him more than that of the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Recorder of Dublin. The Bill was, according to his representation, troublesome, vexatious, expensive—not only not productive of any good, but positively and hopelessly useless—and therefore the right hon. hon. Gentleman would support it. He believed it to be everything the right hon. Gentleman had represented it, and for that reason he would vote against it. No doubt the right hon. Gentleman who introduced the measure, the Secretary for Ireland, would make it his study, as far as in him lay, to have it administered in a kindly spirit. He knew sufficient of that Member of the Cabinet to be perfectly well aware that no tyrannical measure could be consigned to his hands for administration, that he would not endeavour, as far as in him lay, to mitigate the horrors of it; but still it was a tyrannical and oppressive measure, and he could not understand on what principle the constitution of Ireland should for the next nine months be handed over to the Lord Lieutenant and Chief Secretary. It was to him a matter of the most curious conjecture what wild infatuation could have induced the Government to take such a Bill under its protection. The Chief Secretary for Ireland himself admitted that it was a failure, and denounced every provision of it; and the right hon. Gentleman who sat by his side (Mr. Sheil), when in opposition had mercilessly denounced it with that all that fiery eloquence for which he was so remarkable, describing it as a measure into whose every clause tyranny was elaborated in every possible form. Was not that hon. Gentleman going to support it now, because, forsooth, he now sat on the other side of the House? He
 581
 CAPTAIN LAYARD  was satisfied with this assurance, and would withdraw his Motion. Motion withdrawn.
 CAPTAIN LAYARD  said, that he trusted it had not escaped the recollection of the House that within a short period he had presented four petitions from the out-pensioners of Chelsea Hospital, praying the House to take into consideration that which they stated they considered a great hardship, and in which he fully agreed, that 5 per cent should be stopped from their pensions, particularly as such stoppages were not made either from the marines or sailors. And why the soldier should be stopped and the others not, to him was unaccountable; not that he wished that 5 per cent be stopped from the marines and sailors—far from it. What he desired was that no stoppage should be made from any; and actuated by that desire, in the justice of which all whom he had consulted upon the subject entirely agreed, he determined to bring the matter under discussion. Now, of these petitions, two had been printed by order of the House. The petitioners state "that it is a heavy loss to them, that one-twentieth of their pensions gained in fighting the battles of our common country, and thereby increasing its immense power and riches, should be stopped." They likewise state that, in adverting to the common principle that now prevails in advancing or lending money, "they conceive 5 per cent monthly an exorbitant tax; and that the continuance of it must be owing simply to the matter never having been brought under the notice of your honourable House." Now, the Act by
 561 562 History of the Peninsular War 563 "That the British infantry soldier is more robust than the soldier of any other nation can scarcely be doubted by those who, in 1815, observed his powerful frame distinguished amidst the united armies of Europe; and notwithstanding his habitual excess in drinking, he sustains fatigue and wet, and the extremes of cold and heat, with incredible vigour when completely disciplined; and three years are required to accomplish this. His port is lofty and his movements free; the whole world cannot produce a nobler specimen of military bearing. Nor is the mind unworthy of the outward man. He does not, indeed, possess that presumptuous vivacity which would lead him to distate to his commander, or even to censure real errors, although he may perceive them; but he is observant, and quick to comprehend his orders—full of resources under difficulties, calm and resolute in danger, and more than usually obedient and careful of his officers in moments of imminent peril. It has been asserted that his undeniable firmness in battle is the result of a phlegmatic constitution uninspired by moral feeling. Never was a more stupid calumny uttered. Napoleon's troops fought in bright fields where every helmet caught some beams of glory; but the British soldier conquered under the cold shade of aristocracy. No honours awaited his daring—no despatch gave his name to the applause of his countrymen. His life of danger and hardship was un-cheered by hope, his death unnoticed. Did his heart sink therefore? Did he not endure with surprising fortitude the sorest of ills, sustain the most terrible assaults in battle unmoved, overthrowing, with incredible energy, every opponent, and at all times proving, that while no physical military qualification was wanting, the fount of honour was also full and fresh within him? The result of a hundred battles, and the united testimony of impartial writers of different nations, have given the first place amongst European infantry to the British." 564 "Thus the war terminated, and with it all remembrance of the veteran's services." "Pity the sorrows of each brave old man, Whose shattered frame can carry arms no more, Whose life is dwindled to the shortest span: His prayer but grant, and Heaven will bless your store." "That in the opinion of this House, the pensions paid to Non-Commissioned Officers and Privates of the Army should be paid without fee or deduction whatsoever."
 MR. HINDLEY  said, that all he wanted was to have the Bill read a first time and printed, and if the second reading were strongly opposed, he would not of course press it.
 MR. HINDLEY  presented and moved the First Reading of a Bill to prevent Sunday Trading.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  hoped that as the Bill was an important one, time would be given for further consideration.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, it was with great
 583
 MR. PROTHEROE  should oppose the Bill; but he must say that it gave him the greatest concern to be obliged to oppose the Government upon this question. He was firmly persuaded, that pass what Bills they might, they could pass no Bill which would be so effectual to preserve the peace of Ireland as the power already in the hands of Government would be.
 MR. FRENCH  wished to put a question which he would be happy to hear satisfactorily answercd by the hon. Gentleman before him (Mr. Parker). In 1838 an Act passed for the improvement of the navigation of the Shannon, and certain plans were agreed upon, power being given to the Commissioners to execute the works according to those plans. It had been alleged, however, that without any authority the Commissioners had departed from those plans, to the great injury of a proprietor, whase property would be materially affected. He was authorized to state, that though the Commissioners were aware that a petition was before the Treasury, complaining of this departure, yet they were suffering the preparations for the work to go on. Now, his question was this—had
 548
 MR. SHAW  said, that when this Bill was originally proposed he was no advocate of it, but he did not think it deserved the character given it by the hon. Member. It was not a coercive or tyrannical Act in the sense imputed to it by the hon. Member, for scarcely any one could be refused to register arms under it. What he had predicted in 1843, when the great opposition was made to the new provisions then added to it was, that they would be found in the working of the measure troublesome, expensive, and inefficacious; and such had turned out to be the case. The Members of the present Government had at that time opposed the introduction of the present Bill, not because they objected to any Arms Bill; but their argument was that the then existing law might have been continued, and that the addition of the branding and registration clauses was objectionable. He thought the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland had
 580
 MR. MUNTZ  was most willing to give his support to Her Majesty's Government so long as he could do so consistently with honour, and without violating his principles; but he felt that if he were to support them in the present instance, he would be degrading and disgracing himself. He deeply regretted that Ministers should have brought forward such a Bill, for public men were just now at a discount, and such conduct on the part of Ministers would not tend to raise them in estimation. If so odious a Bill as this were to be received without sufficient deference to the public feeling in this country and Ireland, people would think that there was indeed truth in the assertion that men changed their principles in that House as soon as they changed the benches on which they sat.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : As goon as the Resolution is reported.
 MR. GOULBURN  trusted, if they accepted this proposition, that the reduction of the duty would be only regarded as an instalment of what was due to the West Indians. In 1826, when Lord Ripon was Chancellor of the Exchequer, the distinction of the duty between West Indian rum and British distilled spirits was fixed at 1 s. d. 573
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that from the part he had taken on a former occasion, he did not apprehend that the course he was about to take on the present occasion could be matter of doubt. The question
 594
 MR. LABOUCHERE  admitted that when he moved the second reading, he stated that he thought the wisest course the House could take was, not at that period of the Session to go through the whole of the clauses, but to trust to the opinion avowed by the Government, that the present was an imperfect measure, and that it would be taken up and fully considered next Session. After having heard the discussion that followed, he still retained that opinion. At the same time, as several Irish Members were desirous, not that the Government should review the whole Bill for the purpose of altering it so that it might be altogether approved of, but that some of the more prominent and objectionable parts should be struck out, he was quite ready to admit that he agreed with his noble Friend at the head
 597
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said his hon. Friend attributed this measure to a hint thrown out by the late Government; but so far from its being a hint, he did not think he ever heard a more distinct promise than that this relief should be given to the Irish counties. The hon. Gentleman also said that it would be no relief to the counties generally; but so far from that being the case, the county cess, of which this formed an important item, was felt to be
 598
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he could assure the House that it was with sincere reluctance he moved the second reading of this Bill. That reluctance, however, was not created by any doubt on his mind that the course he took, in concurrence with the rest of Her Majesty's Government, was that which would be most in accordance with the interests of Ireland, and with their duty to the House. He retained the opinion he had originally formed when the measure was first introduced, that it contained many most objectionable clauses, and for his own part he never would have been a party to its introduction; but at the same time he trusted he should be able to demonstrate to the House that it was perfectly consistent with that opinion to recommend the Bill under the circumstances in which they were now placed. He did not ask the House to lend any formal sanction to the principle or to the details of the Bill, of which he would be the last man to approve; but he asked them to continue it in order to give the House and the Government the limited period for the consideration of their future policy on this important question, and an opportunity for that deliberate and serious attention which it so fully required. If any hon. Member was disposed to blame
 576 577
 MR. MILDMAY  had come down to the House prepared to support the Government in voting for a renewal of this measure; but after the extraordinary reasons he had heard given by them within the last hour for supporting it, he really felt bound to come to the conclusion of not being a party to its passing. They had declared that they thought it a bad measure, but that as there was no time to improve it this Session, they must content themselves with proposing its renewal till next Session. Why, they had not hesitated, late as the Session was, to propose a Sugar Duties Bill; and if they were justified in doing that, he thought they ought also to have made the present measure perfect before asking the concurrence of the House to it.
 MR. COLLETT  begged, with the permission of the House, to read the letter he had received. [The hon. Gentleman read the letter.] He now begged to know if the hon. Gentleman wished to make any allusion to him.
 MR. J. COLLETT,  seeing an hon. Gentleman (Mr. G. Berkeley) present who had given him notice by letter that it was
 566
 MR. PARKER  said, this matter had not come before him, and therefore he was not prepared to give a satisfactory answer to the hon. Gentleman. There could be no doubt, however, the Treasury would endeavour to come to a fair and reasonable conclusion.
 MR. HUME  withdrew his Motion.
 MR. HUME  moved the Amendment of which he had given notice, viz.,
 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the Conduct of the Board of Ordnance, in their refusing to inquire into alleged malversation of the Public Stores by officers of that department, and into the cause and manner of dismissal of Daniel Toner, a pensioner, for good service in the Artillery, from Her Majesty's service, without allowing the said Daniel Toner to be present at the court of inquiry, or to be heard in his own defence." l. 558
 MR. HUME  rose to move the Resolutions of which he had given notice relative to the mode of transacting Private Business. It was impossible that the present system could be allowed to continue for another year. The Committee appointed last year agreed to certain recommendations; and it was to carry out their suggestions that he had prepared the Resolutions which he now submitted. During the last Session no less than fifty Members were employed in taking proof that the Standing Orders had been complied with. He proposed that a tribunal should be appointed, before which that should be for the future proved. The Committee suggested that to save expense the Standing Orders for Scotch Bills should be proved in Edinburgh, and for Irish Bills in Dublin; but by the Resolutions he should move, this would be left with the Speaker in each case to determine. He did not propose to remove from the House any portion of the control which it now had over the proof of Standing Orders; but by the plan proposed, the attendance of a number of individuals would be dispensed with. In one case as many as 200 witnesses had been in attendance, some of them fourteen days or three weeks, at an expense of 10,000 l.; 547
 MR. HUME  seconded the Resolution, observing that he could not understand on what principle one class of pensioners, and they the poorer, should be subjected to a charge from which the wealthy were exempted.
 MR. HUME  said, that the only objection which the right hon. Gentleman seemed to entertain on the subject was the fear of smuggling. Now, it could be easily shown that there was no ground for any such apprehension. The question was, whether rum was more likely to be smuggled from Scotland than Scotch spirits. On the south side of the Solway Frith, the duty on spirits was 7 s. d. s. d.;
 MR. HUME  had long listened in that
 578 579
 MR. HUME  remarked that it was hon. Gentlemen opposite, and not those on that side of the House, who had carried the second reading. It would have been better if Government had allowed the Act to expire, and if they had commenced their government of Ireland with conciliation instead of coercion.
 MR. HUME  said, as he understood there were other sums to be asked for, he would not press for a division until the Bill came before the House, but he would then certainly offer every opposition in his power to its progress.
 MR. HUME  also objected to the vote. He denied that the Irish counties generally would be benefited by the boon. The entire benefit would, in fact, go into the pockets of the landed proprietors, who would be sure to raise the rent to the full amount of the reduction. Besides, the charge for the police was a kind of fine on the disturbed districts, which he thought it would be imprudent to remove. He would certainly take the sense of the House on the vote. He did not know on what ground it was defended, except that the right hon. Gentleman the late Premier made some such assurance on introducing the Corn Bill.
 MR. P. M. STEWART  expressed his conviction that the existing differential duties were grounded upon the now exploded system of protection, and that it was intended that colonial sugar should have a preference over foreign sugar, and British spirits over colonial spirits. That system, however, had been avowedly abandoned, and we must now follow out, to their full extent, the principles of free trade. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had referred to the fiscal difficulties which surrounded the subject of the spirit duties, and the danger of smuggling; but the reasons which he had urged might
 574
 MR. B. OSBORNE  deeply regretted that Her Majesty's Ministers should have been so untrue to their professions when in opposition, to have introduced such a measure as this now that they were in office. What Irish Members had suggested that such a piece of legislation was necessary? Was it the right hon. Gentleman the Mem-
 584
 MR. BELLEW  thought that in this particular instance the Government had not
 582
 MR. SPOONER  was not called upon to apologize for the vote he was about to give in support of Her Majesty's Government. He had not opposed legislation on the part of the late Government for the better security of life and property in Ireland; and he did not now intend to oppose legislation for a similar object, because brought forward by the present Ministry. He considered the propositions of the noble Lord on the part of the Government were but reasonable and fair, and they should have his support. Those who had supported the Coercion Bill of the late Government, and who believed that the state of Ireland required the introduction of restrictive measures, were bound in honour and honesty to give their votes in favour of the present Bill.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  thought that there were other Members of that House, sitting on the Treasury benches, whom it behoved, as much as it did the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Clonmel, to explain their vote, and none more so than the noble Lord who was considered, by some means or other, to be the Prime Minister of this country. This Bill was opposed, not only by the right hon. Gentleman, but by the noble Lord in 1843. On a former evening, not long ago, he had taken the liberty to ask the noble Lord on what principles he proposed to conduct his Government. That
 585 "But really if we are told that it is the intention of the Executive Government to propose such plans, and such plans alone—if we are told that this is a sample of the measures by which Ireland is to be governed, I think before long that this House should address the Crown, or take some mode or other of expressing their opinion as to the government of Ireland." 586
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  wished to know distinctly whether the noble Lord would consent to the omission of the objectionable clauses of the Bill? Several hon. Members had understood the noble Lord to say, that he would consent to their omission, and he had got several votes in consequence. If the noble Lord would get up and say that he would omit those clauses, he should receive no further trouble from him with regard to this Bill. The clauses against which the noble Lord formerly made a strong speech were those which related to the branding and registering of arms. If Government were not prepared to legislate for Ireland in the same spirit and on the same principles in which they legislated for the United Kingdom, the sooner they went out of office the better. The division which they had just had would strike the people of this country with astonishment. If Government would dissolve Parliament on this Arms Bill, they would soon see what the people thought of them. He was at a loss to know how the hon. and learned Member for Dungar-
 596
 MR. DUNCOMBE  said, that after what the right hon. Baronet had stated, he would withdraw his Motion, trusting entirely to the right hon. Baronet to conduct the investigation in the best way he thought fit; reserving to himself, however, if the inquiry should not be carried on in a fair and open manner, the liberty to move in next Session of Parliament for a Committee of that House to inquire into the charges, as well as into the way the commission had exercised their powers.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  regretted that he should be called upon to refer again to the very painful subject of the abuses and cruelties which existed in Milbank Prison; but the fault was not his. Had the Government acceded to the Motion he formerly made, for inquiry by means of a Committee of that House, the truth would by this time have been ascertained; and any further reference to the question would have been avoided. He maintained that, on that occasion, he had made out sufficient ground for Parliamentary inquiry, and protested against the doctrine then laid down, that the Members of that House should be contented with a report furnished by parties interested. He had presented a petition from a person who had been a warder in the prison, and against whose character not a word had been breathed; and he offered to prove before a Committee the allegations contained in that petition. He made a Motion in support of Baker's Petition, and also brought forward fresh charges against the authorities of the prison; and the Government, in consequence of these new charges, sought for fresh information from the parties accused. And how was this done? They sent a copy of his speech cut out from  The Times 549 550 551 552 553 "To leave out from the word 'That' to the end of the Question, in order to add the words 'a Select Committee be appointed, to inquire into the treatment of Prisoners confined since October 1843, in the Milbank Prison, as well as into the conduct of the Governor and Officers thereof; and to report their opinion, with the evidence, to the House.'"
 MR. MACKINNON : He would offer no opposition to the Resolution.
 MR. MACKINNON : Sir, being connected with the West India interest, my ancestors and myself having held possession of that description of property for upwards of a century, in fact ever since the first colonization of those islands, I take the liberty of stating a few facts that relate to that description of property. It is well known, and I believe painfully so to all West India proprietors, that the value of their estates has of late greatly deteriorated; to such an extent as in many cases to give no return whatever, and in others to cause an expenditure greater than the profit. When the twenty millions were granted by this House for the manumission of the slaves, it was certainly a generous boon; but in many cases that vast amount was very far from being a compensation, or in any manner an equivalent for the loss incurred. Under these circumstances, it appears to me that the West India proprietors are entitled to every indulgence. It was quite evident to all who gave their attention to West Indian affairs, that when the duty on corn was doomed by the Legislature, it would be impossible much longer to keep up the monopoly of sugar. In proposing an alteration in the Sugar Duties, the Government cannot be blamed; any Government whatever that ruled this country must have done the same, and I must admit that some of the provisions made by the noble Lord at the head of the Government are a great advantage to the West Indian proprietors. I allude chiefly to the admission into the Colonies of men of colour, and also to the proposed abolition by the local legislatures of the duty on various articles imported into the colonial islands. These benefits will materially improve the condition of the proprietors of the soil, and are well-judged concessions made by the Government: at the same time I cannot but express a wish that the system of free trade, which is the leading principle in the Sugar, as well as in the Corn Importation Bill, had been extended to the admission of colonial rum on the same scale of duty as home-spirits are charged with respectively in England, Scotland, and Ireland. The duty now on the importation of rum is 9 s. d. s. d. s. d.; s. d. 568 s. d., s. d.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  considered the Bill a violation of the Constitution, and particularly useless, and would vote against it accordingly. He would not say that there ought not to be some restrictions as to the importation of arms and the sale of gunpowder; but the practice of registering arms, especially under the circumstances of the branding clause, he could never approve of.
 SIR G. GREY  was desirous, before he stated the course he meant to pursue on this occasion, to explain shortly what he had said on the former occasion respecting a supplementary report of the inspectors. He then stated that he had received a supplementary report, but he had not said that he wished for further information; what he did say was, that the inspectors wished to add something to the report, and that until that was done he could not consider it a final report. But all the alteration that was made by the inspectors was to substitute a letter dated the 3rd of August for a letter dated the 30th of July; that letter of the 3rd of August containing all that the letter of the 30th of July contained. The report, as it now stood, comprised all that was in the report of the 30th of July. He assured the House and his hon. Friend that not one portion of that report had been withdrawn; nothing relating to corporal punishment had been withheld. He had said in his place on the former occasion, that nothing should be withheld, and nothing had been withheld. With his hon. Friend, he certainly thought that it was most unseemly that these charges respecting this prison should be made and met in the House of Commons as they had been; but he might be allowed to recall to the recollection of the House how the facts stood as regarded himself. The original petition of Mr. Baker had been presented on the 15th of July; it had then been printed with the Votes, and transmitted by his predecessor in office to the inspectors of prisons, with the request that they would give the allegations a full and searching investigation. When he received the seals of office, it was impossible for him, in two or three days, to make himself acquainted with the state in which the business of the Office was, and he was not aware that this investigation had been ordered. His hon. Friend then placed on the books a notice to move for a Committee of Inquiry. He upon that called for information, and he was then told of the report of the inspectors, and he had only had a short time to make himself aware of the facts of that report before his hon. Friend made his statement to the
 555 556
 SIR J. R. REID  inquired when the reduction was to take place?
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  was not afraid of the charge of apostacy—a hard word used by the hon. Member for Finsbury—being laid to him, for it had been his lot to propose several Arms Bill, and never to oppose one. He believed every year that he had had the honour to fill the situation of Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, it had been his duty to bring forward Arms Bills, not varying very greatly in their provisions from the Bill now before the House, though, certainly, on these Bills in question, in their progress through the House, more stringent and coercive provisions had been engrafted. He would not follow the hon. Gentleman through his attacks on Government. He was sorry the hon. Member had thought it necessary to condemn the vote which he had given against the Coercion Bill; but he did not think it was necessary to justify a vote which he had given in common with the hon. Member itself. He had voted for the first reading of the Coercion Bill, and he felt he could not take upon himself to vote against the second reading, so as to give ground for the notion that he was prepared to dispense with the existing
 587 588
 MR. WILLIAMS  wish to asked a question of the Secretary of the Admiralty whether, as so much irregularity had taken place in courts martial in the navy, the opinion of the law officers of the Crown had been taken with regard to the trial of a marine lately sentenced to be hanged at Cork for striking his superior officer?
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  could not accede to the Motion of his right hon. and learned Friend. The subject had been already carefully considered; and the result had been the Bill before the House. Were the deodands to be continued, to take them from the lord of the manor and give them to the sufferers, would cause a demand for compensation on the part of the former — a demand which, however, would not be raised were deodands to be abolished altogether, as converted from their original purposes, and vicious in their present operation. By the present law of deodand, compensation was made, not according to the extent of the injury inflicted, but according to the value of the instrument of injury. How did the right hon. and learned Gentleman mean to apportion the fine which he wished to keep up? Would he entrust the task of valuing it to the defective machinery of a coroner's court? If there was anything more difficult to fix than another, it was the amount of a deodand, and the cases in which it ought to be levied. The only way he could see of putting the system upon a more satisfactory footing was that of making the deodand recoverable by an action at civil law; and that was the course which the Government intended to adopt. He had great reliance upon the judgment of an English jury in fixing the amount of deodand. If they did sometimes run riot, they were always promptly checked, and the evil righted itself.
 MR. WILLIAMS  wished to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government, whether it was his intention to propose any Resolution with respect to the introduction of Railway Bills in the next Session of Parliament? He was induced to ask this question, because it had been computed that in the course of the present Session the Legislature had sanctioned Railway Bills requiring the sum of 150,000,000 l. l., l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : There are proposals about to be made with respect to the mode in which Railway Bills are to be framed; and the manner in which it is proposed they shall be examined in this House; and for that purpose a Committee has been sitting. Her Majesty's Government intend to take into consideration the Resolutions recommended by that Committee, with respect to the formation of a Railway Board. I will not now state the functions of that board; but the hon. Gentleman seems to have in contemplation another mode of interference—an interference calculated to restrict the application of capital, from the apprehension that such an application would derange the monetary affairs of the country. With regard to that subject, the House will bear it in recollection that a Committee of this House was appointed at the commencement of this Session, and another in the House of Lords to inquire into that point, and that neither of those Committees recommended any interference with the numerous railway projects then before the House. On the ground that they had not so recom-
 624
 MR. GRANTLEY BERKELEY  had a question of great interest and importance to put to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, with respect to the Colony of British Guiana; namely, whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to take off the existing restrictions upon the importation of free labourers into British Guiana and the West Indian Colonies, from the free States of Africa? He also wished to know, whether there was any objection to permit free immigration into those British Colonies from the Kroo Coast; and, if there were no objection, when would the present restrictions be taken off?
 MR. GRANTLEY BERKELEY  again rose to call the attention of the House to the evidence taken by the Committee on the Game Laws, when the House was counted out, and adjourned at a quarter past Five o'clock.
 MR. S. WORTLEY  said, that although this Bill had passed the House of Lords, after an able introduction, yet it had so passed without any discussion whatever. It would be recollected that deodands were a gift to the Crown in a very early stage of our history; and he did not think that any alteration whatever was made in the case by their having been in some instances made over to corporations. The only discussion which the Bill had undergone was in a Committee up-stairs, consisting chiefly of lawyers, the responsibility of whose acts he would share, although he was only present for half an hour. It should further be recollected that it was by means of deodands only that a cheap and ready compensation was made to the poor for the injury which they suffered. Now, in the instance of an injury inflicted by a railway company, was it at all reasonable that they should not be obliged to pay for the consequences of the conduct of their servants? What was the use of bringing an action for damages against the servant, who was in most cases a man of straw, and could pay nothing? He was no advocate for the absurdity of the law of deodands; but he did say that a simple compensation to the Crown was a very ready means of getting at the compensation which was due to the injured party. He would appeal to the learned Lord Advocate for a confirmation of the working of the law of deodands in Scotland. He believed it worked very well. The Bill was brought down from the House of Lords on the 8th of May; and it was read a second time in the House of Commons, and committed on the following Monday; and when he returned to town on that day at one o'clock, he found that the two clauses which gave the principal feature to the Bill had not only been refrained, but totally altered in character. In Scotland, there was this difference in the law: the nearest relation of the person killed or injured might bring an action for damages; and any relation who might be abroad at the time of the occurrence, was not debarred from bringing an action on his return; in fact, each relation might come in turn. The question was involved in difficulties: he considered, therefore, that the two Bills
 626
 LORD GRANVILLE SOMERSET  objected to the manner in which this matter had been introduced. Neither the private rights of the Sovereign nor individuals had been consulted. He believed that 700 l. l.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  replied, that he had stated before, that there was every desire on the part of Her Majesty's Government to permit free immigration from the coast of Africa into the Colonies of British Guiana and the West Indies. But there was considerable difficulty surrounding the question, inasmuch as unless restrictions were placed upon the mode of immigration, there might be, under the pretence of carrying free labourers to the Colonies, an actual carrying on of the Slave Trade. Persons might take Africans from the coasts under the pretence of their being engaged as free labourers, and, sailing nominally for Guiana or Jamaica, might take them instead to Cuba or Brazil. He thought therefore that it would be necessary that some proof should be given of the intention of the parties, and that the emigrants should be shown to be really engaged for the West Indies. For that purpose there should be some British authority appointed at the British settlements whose business it would be to ascertain whether any contract had been entered into between the parties, and to have proof of that contract, and that it was the  bonâ fide 629
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the question was, whether the Amendment proposed was one likely to be beneficial. The hon. and learned Members who had been discussing the Bill differed in opinion; and a similar difference of opinion was observable in the noble and learned Lords who had discussed the question in the other House. He thought that the Bill ought certainly to receive a more full and careful investigation before it passed that House.
 MR. WAKLEY  said, he had hoped that some other legal Gentleman would have been present to expound the law. His two hon. Friends who had just spoken were educated under circumstances entirely similar, but their opinions entirely differed. If either of those Gentlemen were elevated to the Bench, the law of coroner would entirely depend on the opinion of which of them happened to be judge. That was a most unsatisfactory state of things. The law of deodand, he admitted, was in a most unsatisfactory state. He would take the case of a liverystable keeper who lent
 627
 SIR G. GREY  said, that he was quite prepared to take the same course as was taken last year by the noble Lord the Member for Falkirk, who announced Her Majesty's assent to a similar measure; and he was now ready to signify Her Majesty's assent to the present Bill. The right which would be relinquished by the Crown was of trifling pecuniary value, because
 625
 MR. WARD  replied, that the minutes of the court martial alluded to by the hon. Member for Coventry, were received in due course by the Board of Admiralty, who having found reason to suppose there was a legal flaw in the constitution of the court, submitted them to the law officers of the Crown. The law officers considered the court was illegally constituted,
 623
 LORD J. RUSSELL  would at once state the course he proposed to take when this Bill went into Committee. The hon. Member for Winchester (Mr. Escott) had said that the object of some of his amendments was to carry into full effect the intentions of the framers of the Bill. There could be no doubt, he thought, that some of the amendments proposed by the hon. Member for Winchester were not consistent with the intentions of those by whom this Bill was introduced. Some of those amendments were similar to clauses contained in a Bill introduced during the present Session by the hon. Member for Kinsale (Mr. Watson), to remove certain penalties and disabilities which attached under the Act 10 George IV. When the House went into Committee on that Bill, on the question that the preamble be postponed, an Amendment was moved, "that the Chairman do now leave the chair;" the Committee divided, and there were—ayes, 120; noes, 80; so that in a House of 200 Members the Bill was rejected by a majority of 40. He need hardly say that it was not to be expected, at this period of the Session, that they could have the attendance of 200 Members, or that the Members who might attend would be the same who had taken part in the previous discussion on this subject. He believed that the Bill now before the House would carry into effect generally the intentions of the House of Lords, by whom it had been sanctioned; and it was not likely, if they were to send the Bill back to the other House with a number of amendments which altered the substance of the measure, that it could receive the consideration of many of those Peers by whom it had formerly been discussed. He thought, therefore, that the fairest course in this state of the Session would be to abstain from discussing the amendments of the hon. Member for Winchester, and to endeavour to render any amendments they might adopt consonant with the intentions of the House of Lords, by whom
 632
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY  said, that if the hon. Member for Winchester persevered in bringing forward his amendments, he would vote for them; but he recommended the hon. Gentleman not to revive the discussion which had previously taken place on the same subject.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  objected to the discussion being taken on the point at that late period of the Session, when but a small number of Members interested in the subject was present.
 MR. REDHEAD YORKE  appealed to the hon. and learned Member for Winchester (Mr. Escott) to consider whether, having regard to the late period of the Session and to the paucity of Members present, it would not be the wiser course to withdraw for the present the other amendments of which he had given notice.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that his object was to carry this Bill in the form in which it had come down from the House of Lords. It had been prepared by Lords Lyndhurst, Campbell, and Brougham, and the whole of the matter had been fully and duly considered. They did not propose to make that lawful which was previously illegal by common law, but only to abrogate the penalties imposed for that which was now allowed to be no fault. His desire was to carry the Bill as it came from the Lords.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  contended that the clause as it now stood was perfectly correct, and better without the proposed words than with them. The Bill took away the severe penalties, but left any breach of the common law just as it stood before.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  did not think that the clause in question was at all at varience with the oath of supremacy. If he understood the clause aright, its object was to revoke certain severe punishments which were inflicted by statute on the introduction of bulls and writings of the See of Rome. The statute imposing these penalties took its rise in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, and was attributable to the circumstance that the Pope was supposed to have assumed an authority to depose the Queen of those realms, and that a bull to that effect had been posted on the churches of London. The Act was supposed to be necessary, because it was thought there were many in the country who believed that the Pope really did possess that power. By the clause in the Bill now under consideration, it was sought to do away with the penalties which, in the opinion of our ancestors, were rendered necessary by the exigencies of the case, but which must now appear to every enlightened mind totally superfluous and unnecessary. There were now no such dangers as were formerly apprehended; and there need be no such punishments. Again, he asserted, he did not see anything in the clause at variance with the oath of supremacy. He had his doubts as to the propriety of the oath; but he was certain that there was nothing in it inconsistent with the fact as it was now, and as it would be after this Bill should have passed. The Bill proposed to take away the whole of the penalties which were heretofore inflicted, but in no other respect did it alter the pre-existing state of the law. It would not render legal for the future that which
 636
 MR. WILLIAMS  observed, that this might be looked upon as a question between two great railways, the Great Western and the London and Birmingham; and he hoped that hon. Members, in deciding the question, would dismiss from their minds all considerations with reference to the peculiar interests that might be involved in promoting those separate lines, and that they would look only to the public interest. He would remind the House of the charges that were made on the London and Birmingham line, until a competition was established; and he urged them to afford the public that accommodation which they ought to have by the competition of this railway, to which their attention was now directed. He called upon the Vice President of the Board of Trade to point out to him any inconvenience the public could sustain by laying down the broad gauge on this line; and let him show how any individual could be injured by doing so, except perhaps the London and Birmingham Railway.
 SIR R. FERGUSON  objected to the
 644 s. s. s.
 MR. PIGOTT  was of opinion, that it was equally desirable to limit the charge of distress for rates and taxes, as for rent. If his hon. Friend thought the 2 s.
 MR. PIGOTT  said, with regard to the first point, he certainly thought it desirable that the fees for distress for rates should be regulated; but, probably, it might be
 645
 MR. ESCOTT  found it impossible to reconcile the remarks which had just been made by the right hon. Member for Dungarvon with the vote that Gentleman had just given against his Amendment. The right hon. Member's vote was virtually a vote in favour of retaining the old penalties for the conscientious exercise of religion. The day was close at hand, however, when this whole system should be changed. All this rubbish of laws persecuting men for conscience sake must be done away with, and the injustice of punishing men for their religious belief must soon and for ever be abolished.
 MR. ESCOTT  believed that the noble Lord was of his own opinion, and he thought the opinion of that House ought not to be made to succumb to that of the House of Lords.
 MR. ESCOTT  consented to acquiesce in the suggestion, observing that he was principally influenced thereto by the advice of the noble Lord (the Earl of Arundel and Surrey), by whose opinion in a matter of that kind he was most desirous to be guided. Under all the circumstances of the case, he thought it was perhaps the best course to withdraw the other amendments; but in doing so he wished to state, that he did not feel at all contented with what the Committee had done in negativing his Amendment, nor did he think it probable that on a future occasion the House would express its satisfaction at the conduct of the Committee in this respect.
 MR. ESCOTT  proposed the introduction of the words in part of it "or consequent thereon," which would have the effect of doing away with penalties.
 MR. ESCOTT  had to propose certain
 631
 MR. SHAW  concurred in the view taken by his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Estcourt.) He (Mr. Shaw) had voted the other day against the second reading of the Bill, not from an opinion that there were not some harsh and obsolete laws on the Statute-book, which it was desirable to repeal, and in so far he did not object to the present Bill; but because there were other provisions contained in the Bill affecting the Established Church, and certain salutary restraints upon the Church of Rome, which he thought had not been sufficiently considered. However, as his hon. Friend (Mr. Estcourt) did not mean to divide the House upon the question of the Speaker leaving the chair, neither would he, provided that the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) would firmly oppose any extension of the present measure—such as was involved in the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Winchester (Mr. B. Escott).
 MR. SHAW  objected to the Amendment. He saw nothing absurd or inconsistent in
 633
 MR. SHAW  observed, that from the very text of the Bill, it was clear that the state of the law was not to be changed in any respect but in the abolition of penalties. That which was not heretofore lawful according to the common law, would not be legalized under the present law. The old punishments, however, were irrational and severe; and he was glad they were abolished.
 MR. SHAW  hoped his hon. Friend (Mr. Spooner) would not divide the House on his Amendment. His hon. Friend did not seem to understand the distinction between an offence existing by the common law, and punishable at common law. If a statute created an offence, or prohibited any act from being done, the common law could punish the offence, if committed, as a misdemeanor. The punishments under the old Act were admittedly too severe. His hon. Friend himself did not desire to retain them; and if he would look to the concluding words of the paragraph he sought to omit, he would find they were—"That in all respects, save as to the said penalties or punishments, the law shall continue the same as if this enactment had not been made."
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, the recommendation of the Land Commission with regard to the limitation of the charges of distress, applied only to distress for rent. He understood from his hon. Friend near him (Sir R. Ferguson), that the charges for distress in the case of rates and taxes were already limited by law. If that was not so, it might be desirable to limit them also; but in that case he thought the 2 s.
 MR. MUNTZ  moved the insertion of an additional clause. He stated that during the last Session of Parliament a line of railway was granted from Oxford to Worcester on the broad gauge, and that another line was granted from Oxford to Rugby. During the present Session a branch from Oxford and Rugby to Birmingham was granted, as was also a line from Birmingham to Wolverhampton; but no gauge was specified for these two lines. Now, the Bill before the House specified those lines which were excepted from the general principle; but those lines to which he had referred were not mentioned in it, and it was with the view of including them that he now submitted an additional clause to the House. The object of that clause was to provide for the entire line from Oxford to Birmingham having the broad gauge, so that there should not be exhibited the anomaly of two gauges being laid down on this line of railway. The
 639 "Nothing in the Act contained shall prevent the construction of the Birmingham and Oxford Junction Railway, the Birmingham Extension Railway, and the Birmingham, Wolverhampton, and Dudley Railway, including the Line between Wednesbury and Dudley, on the same Gauge or Gauges according to which the Oxford and Rugby, and the Oxford, Worcester, and Wolverhampton Railways may be constructed."
 MR. HENLEY  did not think that it was the province of the Committee to which this subject was referred to state the exceptions which should be made. He considered
 643
 MR. HENLEY  considered it most unfair that at the end of the Session a small minority of the House should rescind a decision adopted by a large number of Members at an early period of the Session.
 MR. P. M. STEWART  said, if the Oxford and Birmingham line would be rendered useless without the insertion of this clause, as seemed to be supposed, why was that important fact overlooked by the promoters when the Bill was before the Committee? It was then proposed that the broad gauge should be granted on the whole line from Birmingham to London; but that recommendation was thrown out by the Committee. He would be no party to promoting a gauge which he was sure must be withdrawn sooner or later; nor did he wish to see any parties injured by the change. He desired, as did the Commissioners, that means might be found of making an uniform gauge throughout the country by some equitable mode. But the Resolutions had encroached on the principles laid down by the Commissioners, and the present Bill advanced beyond them, and the Amendment of the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Muntz) went still further in extending the broad gauge. Throughout the continent of Europe there was an uniform gauge with one exception; and an engineer from Heidelberg was this moment here consulting with the most eminent engineers how to get rid of the evil. He implored the House to be more consistent in legislating on this subject than they had been: what they had done must be undone sooner or later, and an uniform gauge established. At any rate he would be no party to extending the broad gauge,
 641
 MR. SHEIL , by way of applying an anodyne to the conscience of the hon. Member for Birmingham, and of showing that the construction of the supremacy oath contended for by the noble Lord was the correct one, begged leave to refer to the Bequest Act of last Session. By that Act it was specially provided that Roman Catholic bishops who were appointed by the Pope, in the exercise of his spiritual jurisdiction, should have seats at the board; and thus collectively, but most emphatically, had the spiritual capacity and jurisdiction of his Holiness been acknowledged. At first the phrase in the Bequest Act was, "Ministers of the Roman Catholic church exercising episcopal authority;" but it was subsequently altered to "bishops" and
 638
 MR. SPOONER  confessed that this explanation was very far indeed from satisfying him. It only proved that they were going from worse to worst. If the present Bill were passed, bulls at first of an innocent character would be introduced; but they would gradually change their complexion, and there was no knowing where the mischief might end.
 MR. SPOONER  dissented altogether from the construction put upon the oath of supremacy by the noble Lord at the head of the Government. However, seeing the feeling of the House, he would not divide on the Motion, but would content himself with merely protesting against the Bill. The noble Lord had asked whether he (Mr. Spooner) would have advocated the prosecution of the Roman Catholic bishops in the event of their yielding obedience to the Pope's rescript by withdrawing from Conciliation Hall? But he would put the converse of the proposition; and ask whether, in case the rescript commanded their attendance there, and that they were prosecuted by the Government for high treason, the noble Lord would be satisfied if they were to reply by saying, "We meet there in obedience to the bull of the Pope, whose jurisdiction and authority you yourselves acknowledge?"
 MR. SPOONER  objected to the next clause, on the ground that it would violate the oath of supremacy and the oath taken by Members of that House, which set forth that no foreign pontiff should be allowed to interfere in any way with the religious opinions of the subjects of this realm; whereas the Pope would have the power of issuing bulls affecting the opinions of the people of this country by this Bill. He pressed the noble Lord to postpone the clause until next Session, in order that it might be more fully discussed. He moved the omission of the objectionable words, and expressed his intention of dividing the House on the subject if the
 635
 MR. SPOONER  supported the clause, which he contended could have no other object than to benefit the public. The only reason, indeed, which the right hon. Gentleman had given for opposing it was, that the promoters did not take the proper opportunity for having an exception made in their favour; but in his opinion there was no weight whatever in this objection.
 MR. MANGLES  observed, that the parties had had ample opportunities of being heard before the Gauge Commissioners, but they either did not appear, or if they did, they made no impression upon those officers, who were looking only to the interest of the public. The Board of Trade again decided on this question, after due consideration; and he denied that it was competent for the House, at that stage of the Bill, to adopt such a claim. He could not conceive on what ground they brought forward the subject again at that period of the Session.
 MR. ESTCOURT  thought that the construction of the oath contended for by the noble Lord, and his explanation of this measure, not only would justify him in supporting the Bill, but even rendered it imperative on him to give it his advocacy. The noble Lord had stated most distinctly that the Bill would leave the law in these matters just as it was, with the exception of doing away with the penalties.
 MR. ESTCOURT  had divided the House on the second reading of the Bill; and as the House had then expressed an opinion on the subject, he thought at this late period of the Session it would be unbecoming in him to throw any further obstacle in the way of the Bill, provided it was allowed to retain its present form. If, however, the hon. Member for Winchester persisted in his amendments, he (Mr. Estcourt) should feel justified in opposing the Bill.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the proposition which his hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham now made had undergone very full consideration, and he could assure him that the course which the Government thought fit to take with respect to this subject had not been influenced in the least by any sympathy with the London and Birmingham Railway Company, or any other company, but simply with reference to public and general considerations. He must call his hon. Friend's attention to the state of the case. The fact was that a Commission had been appointed to inquire into the Gauge question, and a report was made, upon which certain Resolutions were founded and unanimously passed. The Bill now before the House, and which had reached its third reading (having already passed through the House of Lords), was a Bill to carry those Resolutions which Parliament had deliberately passed into law, and nothing more. But the hon. Member for Birmingham asked them to pause at the third reading of this Bill, and to introduce a clause which would be in complete violation of its principles, and which would, in fact, amount to very little short of making all their previous resolutions and proceedings null and void. However, be that as it may, be would remind his hon. Friend that at the time that the Birmingham and Oxford Railway Bill was before a Committee of that House, the promoters of that Bill were perfectly aware those Resolutions to which he had alluded were passing through the Houses of Parliament; and they were aware that, with the exception of those Bills with reference to which a special clause was inserted, every Bill would come under the control of the general enactment which Parliament was about to adopt. Now, why did they neglect to ask, until the third reading of this general enactment, to have an exception made in their favour? Why did they not take the opportunity of
 640
 MR. HAYTER  said, that in the present Bill there were two exceptions admitted which had not been mentioned in the Gauge Commissioners' Report: they had not been brought before the Committee, and had not had a special report made in their favour; and why then should the lines mentioned in the clause be refused a similar advantage? With respect to what had been said about the time when the present proposition ought to have been made, all that could be said on that matter was, that if the Government had not inserted the two lines in the Bill, the present was the only occasion when the parties could bring their proposition forward. Then it was said that the adoption of the clause would be inconsistent with the Report of the Gauge Commissioners, in which it was stated that the break of gauge was a most serious evil. But the House should know that unless the clause was introduced, there would be a much greater break of gauge than if the Bill passed without it. They asked for no exclusive privileges with respect to the adoption of the broad gauge, as they wished to lay down a narrow-gauge rail by the side of it. All they asked for was what was given to the other lines to which he had referred.
 MR. MACKINNON  should feel gratification in acceding to the wish of the noble Lord, but he felt some difficulty in so doing. From every part of the country, especially from Leeds and Manchester, he was receiving the most pressing letters to carry forward his Bill. He felt himself in a difficult position; for if he gave up the Bill, he should make himself liable to the censures to which he had been exposed in some of the leading journals of the day. It was only this week he had been held up to reproach for having given up his Cemetery Bill. Still, after the application made to him by the noble Lord—after, he might almost say, the pledge he had given him that the matter should be taken into consideration—he had no alternative but to accede to the noble Lord's wishes. Indeed, he should injure his own cause by any other course; for if he went to a division he should be beaten. He trusted that the able daily papers he had adverted to (particularly  The Times),
 SIR G. GREY  expressed his regret that the question of the gauges should have been raised on the present occasion. The subject was fully discussed in the House upon the Resolutions introduced by the late Vice President of the Board of Trade, on the part of the Government some months ago, which Resolutions were adopted as a sort of compromise between the different interests concerned in the gauge question. The House accepted that compromise. After those Resolutions were adopted, he had asked the late Vice President of the Board of Trade whether it were the intention of the Government to bring in a Bill in order to give effect to them? He replied that it was. That intention, however, was not carried into effect while the last Government were in office; but the noble Lord, the present President of the Board of Trade, acting upon the assurance given by the previous Government, introduced a Bill into the other House of Parliament founded upon the Resolutions. That Bill had passed through its various stages in the other House, and had arrived at its third reading in this, when the inconvenient course had been adopted of moving a clause which had not even been printed, and the terms of which he knew nothing about till he saw them in manuscript a few minutes ago, making another exception in addition to those originally introduced by the Board of Trade—an exception which was now proposed for the first time, and which had not been mentioned in the previous discussion on the subject. Without entering into the merits of the case, he would merely say that the safest way would be for the House to adhere to the Bill as it now stood, and which had been framed in strict conformity to the Resolutions of the House.
 MR. M. PHILIPS  said, the question
 642
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  said, he observed that the second reading of the Smoke Prohibition Bill stood for to-day, but he hoped the hon. Member who had charge of it would not proceed with it this Session. If the hon. Member felt disposed to give way for the present Session, although he (Lord Morpeth) would give no pledge that he would introduce a measure next Session, yet he would promise to give the subject his best attention, to see whether it would be practicable to carry out the suggestions of scientific and practical men, with a view to legislation on this subject.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  could assure the right hon. Gentleman, that he was not insensible to the inconvenience that might result from the operation of the Bill before the House; but the right hon. Gentleman must bear in mind the circumstances under which the Bill was introduced. He believed it might be better on the whole to regulate the trade of the Colonics in the same way as it had been done before; but it was impossible to have any communication with the Colonies with a view to the alteration of the import duties; and thus they would have been depriving them of a portion of their revenues without any notice being given them, taking away those ways and means on which they had a right to calculate, without preparing them for it by any intimation. It was thought better, therefore, to leave this matter in their own hands, especially as the Queen's consent was necessary to the carrying of any Acts which they might pass. There could not, however, be the least doubt that it would be desirable in all cases that the regulations of those duties should lie with the Colonies themselves. There were at the same time many obnoxious regulations affecting the trade of one Colony with another which ought to be abandoned. They had differential duties among themselves which were highly objectionable. Nothing, for example, could be more inconvenient than that the Colony of New South Wales should have differential duties on articles of produce between that Colony and Van Diemen's Land. It might be desirable in the course of the next Session to introduce a Bill to put matters of this kind on a sound and proper footing, though he did not think it was possible to do so during the present Session. In the mean time the Colonies ought, without delay, to be relieved from the import duties to which they were exposed. They should not be exposed to protection against them, while protection in their favour was taken away. He thought, in reference to any inconvenience
 681
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The hon. Member for Montrose seemed to differ from the hon. Member for Kendal. The hon. Member for Kendal said it would be very inconvenient to have legislative power in the hands of different colonial legislatures; while the hon. Member for Montrose wished to have that power given to the Colonies. He wished to describe what he conceived to be the state of the law to which the hon. Member had adverted, if it were attempted to make one colonial possession contribute to the expenses of the mother country—to contribute to our army, navy, and fortifications, by duties to be levied on the Colonies. It was that which led to the resistance of the United States of America; and Parliament, in consequence, passed an Act after that event, by which it declared that all duties which might be levied in future in the Colonies, should be applied, not to any purposes of the mother country, but to the purposes of the Colonies themselves. That was as he understood it, and the observations of his right hon. Friend. The question next occurred, whether, having given up that right, Parliament should interfere with respect to the trade of the Colonies. He differed very much from the hon. Member for Kendal, who said we ought not to allow any considerable power to the Colonies to regulate their trade with respect to their own washes; while the right hon. Member for Cambridge thought the House ought, as hitherto, to regulate those matters by an Imperial Act. With respect to that subject, he should feel very great difficulty in legislating that Session. The Parliament had adopted a general principle, that they should not enact differential duties,
 683 s. s. ad valorem l. 684
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, there was no objection to a return of the number of lashes inflicted; but he thought, if the regiments in which corporal punishment had been inflicted were particularized, invidious comparisons might be made. Such comparisons would be very unjust; for no one who had looked into the reports on this subject could have failed to perceive, that though a regiment might at one time be kept in very good order without corporal punishment, yet that under other circumstances punishment might be necessary for the maintenance of discipline. Colonel Macgregor had stated, that for a number of years he commanded a regiment in which scarcely any corporal punishment was inflicted; but, when the regiment was joined by a number of recruits from the worst parts of some towns in Scotland, it was necessary to make some very severe examples. Now, if a return of the regiments were agreed to, cases of this kind might lead persons to entertain a very unfavourable opinion of particular officers. If it was the opinion of the House that that portion of the return would lead to invidious comparisons, he hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would consent to omit the clause.
 MR. C. BERKELEY  concurred with those who thought that if the whole return were granted, erroneous inferences would be produced; and he denied the assertion of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Wakley), that when the number of lashes allowed to be inflicted was 1,500, the officers of the army declared against a less amount. The officers of the army never maintained such a doctrine; but their doctrine was—and it was a correct doctrine—that the discipline of the army never could be carried on
 694
 MR. F. MAULE  had hoped that after the debate which had recently taken place on this disagreeable subject, it would not have been again referred to during the present Session of Parliament. He thought that the House might place full reliance on the statements which had been made by his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) and himself, that corporal punishment in the army should not only undergo considerable diminution, but that such punishments would be very rarely inflicted, and that they would be very closely watched by the medical and other authorities. He (Mr. F. Maule) would have no objection to consent to a return of the number of cases in which corporal punishment had been inflicted in the army during the years 1845 and 1846; the names of the persons punished, the number of lashes to which the offenders were sentenced, and the number actually inflicted. The hon. and learned Member asked, however, for the order for the execution of the sentence. Why, every order for the execution of a military punishment proceeded from a court martial, the sentence was passed by a court martial, and the punishment was inflicted under the direction of the officer whose duty it was to carry that sentence into effect. The hon. and learned Gentleman also wished to ascertain whether the trials were open to the public. He (Mr. F. Maule) believed a court martial was as much an open court as any other court of justice. He had been informed, upon competent authority, that a court martial was an open court; and, therefore, he presumed parties wishing to be present at any trial by court martial would not be excluded therefrom. The court was an open court, and would, of course, be conducted with open doors. The hon. Member also asked for a return of the number of lashes inflicted, and the day. He (Mr. F. Maule) did not see how a return of that kind, de-
 687 688
 MR. ESCOTT  rose to move—
 "That there be laid before this House a Return of Persons flogged in the Army in Great Britain and Ireland, in the years 1845 and 1846 to the end of July; specifying the offence; the regiment, the place of station, the time;  the sentence; the order for its execution; whether the trials were open to the public, or only open to the regiment, or with closed doors; and the day; how soon after punishment the man was able to return to his duty, and at what place he was then quartered; whether death has fallowed within twelve months of the fogging, and the date of such death; whether the punishment was inflicted, if in cavalry regiments, by the trumpeter or farriers; if in infantry regiments, by the privates or drummers, and with what instrument; together with Copies of the surgeon's minutes of all such punishments, and any subsequent observations on their consequences." 686
 MR. ESCOTT  said, that if it was the law that courts martial should be open to the public, all that he wanted to know by one part of his return was that the law was properly carried into execution. As to that part of the return which was to state whether death had followed within twelve months, the very cause of all this stir was the verdict of a jury that in one case death had so followed, and that a man had suffered capitally who was only sentenced to be whipped; the information asked for related to a most important point, and there was no necessity that any unwarrantable inferences should be drawn from such a return. Then as to the copies of the surgeon's minutes, it was said they were confidential communications; but the surgeon was under no oath or imperative call of duty to withhold the information if the House of Commons called for it. However, he would not divide the House, but take as much as he could get, and hope for the rest next Session. He begged to say, with regard to the suggestion that the House ought to put confidence in the Government as to this matter, that he was disposed to put confidence in them; but in withholding this information, as well as in some other courses to which they scorned addicted, they were destroying the confidence of the House and of the country; he told them so in no unfriendly spirit, and they would hear more of it before long.
 MR. C. BULLER  said, that there was no wish to withhold information; but the Government objected to grant a return calculated to mislead the public. Parts of the return moved for were so worded that they would lead palpably to the most erroneous inferences. With respect to No. 5 in the return moved for, he could state that it was a general rule of law that courts martial, whether general, district, or regimental, were open to the public, except during the period of deliberation. He agreed that there ought to be some general rule regulating this system of punishment, and he believed that measures were taken by authority to the effect that the instrument inflicting the punishment, should be in accordance with some fixed regulation.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that there might arise under this Bill certain regulations between the Colonies with respect to trade which would become of a permanent character. Those regulations might assume a permanent form, and come at length to assume the character of vested interests, not that the colonial body could hope for much consideration under the present system. Still, in his opinion, they would be giving up a great advantage if they allowed their Colonies to deal with foreign countries, as if each were a separate State, and that too without the knowledge of or taking into consideration its relations with other Colonies attached to the British Crown.
 CAPTAIN POLHILL  was of opinion that the power of inflicting this punishment must be retained; in case of mutiny or insubordination on a march, for instance, it could not be dispensed with. He begged to deny the position that it degraded a man, and rendered him unfit for service;
 695
 MR. GOULBURN  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to the principle which was involved in the Bill before them. Hitherto the trade of our Colonics had been always regulated by the British Parliament; but in this Bill there was a departure from that principle. Before the House passed such a Bill, they ought to know why the usual course of proceeding was departed from. According to the present mode of proceeding there was an uniform rate of duty passed on all articles coming from foreign countries. Not only had the British Parliament hitherto retained the right of which he had spoken; but it also retained the right of appointing the places where foreign ships should trade with them—that was, it appointed certain ports for that purpose, which were called free ports. This Bill proposed, instead of having the duty imposed by a British Act of Parliament, to give to certain Colonics the power of imposing a duty on foreign goods coming from foreign countries. This was, as he conceived, a very inconvenient course. No one, after what had passed that Session, could refuse to admit the necessity of lowering the duties in those Colonies; but the question for the House was, whether that was to be done by the provisions of a British Act of Parliament extending to all the Colonics; or whether the Colonies should have a discretionary power to do so in their colonial assemblies with the consent of the Crown, and superseding the authority of a British Act of Parliament; or whether in giving them that power they would act wisely in regard to the future regulations of their colonial system? In his own opinion, many inconveniences would arise from the course now proposed to be adopted. They wished to give relief to these Colonies; but he did not think they would effect the desired remedy as well by the proposed Bill as they could by a British Act of Parliament. For instance, the Government here might decide that the Colonial Assembly had not taken that view of the subject which was for their own advantage and for the benefit of the Empire at large, while the Colonial Assembly might take another view of the matter,
 679 680
 MR. WARBURTON  said, he objected to this Bill because it was not a temporary measure, but a measure to enable the Colonies to impose duties which would last permanently. He did say that the House ought not to part with the important power which the Imperial Legislature was supposed to possess; and he thought the British Parliament could certainly make better regulations on these subjects than small local legislatures.
 MR. WARBURTON  said, it appeared to him that no part of the return was half so important as No. 8, which required a statement "whether death had followed within twelve months of the flogging, and the date of such death." When they inquired respecting the health of a colony, they required a report of the number of deaths in it; and so in respect to the practice of flogging, he trusted that the Government would grant the information required by that part of the return he had referred to.
 DR. NICHOLL  begged to submit to the House, whether it was necessary to call for such an invidious return as a statement of the regiments, the place of station, and the time when these punishments were inflicted. He thought if the House had before them a return of the total number of lashes inflicted, and the sentences of the courts, that was all that was necessary to enable them to form an opinion as to the manner in which the discipline of the army was carried on. He thought that a return of the regiments in which this punishment had been inflicted, would throw an invidious stigma on particular officers, who would not have the means of affording any explanation to the House or to the country.
 MR. WAWN  asked the Secretary to the Admiralty "how many iron war steamers are being built? Also, whether any experiments have been tried as to the effects of cannon shot upon iron vessels; and if those experiments have been satisfactory or not? And whether the Government intend to persevere in the building of iron war steamers?"
 MR. HENLEY  observed, that the present was a very instructive discussion. They had here the principal mover in the cause of free trade, whose principles had been carried by the aid of those hon. Gentlemen opposite, expressing very great alarm about the navigation laws. He believed the right hon. Gentleman was quite right in that alarm—those laws were in imminent danger. The Colonies might not think it right to employ British shipping, when they could have foreign shipping to carry their goods; and if this Bill passed, they would be very likely to impose a countervailing duty on British shipping, and to send home their sugars and other articles in Russian ships. It was, in his opinion, of great importance to this country that the House should not give up its control over the acts of the colonial legislatures.
 MR. HUME  wished that the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government would consider how far the Bill before the House interfered with the rules laid down as to the regulation of our Colonies. The principle of legislation in the Imperial Parliament, as to the Colonies, ought to be
 682 l. l.
 MR. HUME  had in his possession a circular, stating for what offences corporal punishment might be resorted to; and he therefore considered that the House ought to have full information on the subject, or they would not be in a situation to judge whether the punishment had been justly inflicted.
 MR. M. GORE  said, that reference having been made on a former occasion to the opinion of that distinguished officer Sir C. Napier, he wished to state that that opinion had not been correctly explained. It was true that in one part of his work Sir C. Napier admitted that in time of peace it might be possible to abolish flogging, though it must then be done gradually, and with extreme caution; but in another part he stated that it was necessary in time of war. He (Mr. M. Gore) thought the great point was to educate the soldier and improve his character by rewards for good conduct and other means, and then, possibly, this species of punishment might be abolished.
 MR. WAKLEY  considered that these returns, in the altered form suggested by the right hon. Secretary at War, would be useless; and he regretted that the Government should refuse to accede to the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Winchester. That refusal, however, spoke even more eloquently than the returns themselves could do, for it was not a refusal without a motive; and in his opinion it would be found extremely inconvenient to grant the returns moved for by the hon. and learned Gentleman. He believed that if those returns were granted, they would exhibit facts which would, more than anything that had been stated, satisfy the House and the country that the odious, disgusting, and brutal practice of flogging ought at once and for over to be completely abolished. He inferred from the tone of the hon. and gallant Officer who had addressed the House, that he (Sir H. Douglas) believed that the practice of flogging
 691 692 693
 MR. WARD  replied, that there were now sixteen iron steamers in commission, including the Dover mail packets; four iron steamers were built, but not in commission, including the  Birkenhead 685 Simoom
 SIR HOWARD DOUGLAS  considered that a return of the regiments in which corporal punishments had been inflicted, would be exceedingly odious, and disadvan-
 689 690
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The hon. Gentleman has referred to opinions of mine given very lately. I have no hesitation in tolling him, that I think, generally speaking, the representative constitution ought to be introduced further into our Colonies. But when he rather implies that there should be some general measure, or general law, which should introduce representative as-
 717
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I am quite ready to concur with the hon. Gentleman in wishing the advancement of the object the hon. Gentleman has at heart; and I will, moreover, say that I believe no man in this House or in this country has done more than he has to promote that object. He has very properly laid great stress on the number of persons who attend the British Museum, and who attend other public places for the purpose of instruction and amusement, and very gratifying it is to me to see the large numbers of persons going in vans to Hampton Court on a Sunday, and who have an opportunity there of admiring the architecture and the pictures, and after a day of social recreation return to their homes, no doubt much better as regards morality than they went. But I must say that the hon. Gentleman has shown that no very great restraints are placed upon the admission of the people to these places of public resort at present, when he says that 32,000 persons were admitted to the British Museum in one day, and more than half a million in a year. That shows there are no very great restrictions on the admission to public places; but I am aware that the hon. Gentleman's object on this occasion is not so much the general object, but that he wishes us to take the course of allowing admission on Sundays to the British Museum and the National Gallery. Now I think that on that subject it is better not to lay down a positive rule; that it is much better to lay down no rule on that subject; but with respect to public gardens, where there are porters at the doors to take care who is admitted, I think they may be opened as the hon. Gentleman desires. If, however, we go to the other extreme, there immediately we come upon what is to be avoided; but at the same time, when he speaks of the argument of diverting people from scenes of drunkenness by throwing open these places of innocent recreation to them, I must say, that listening to the plays of Shakspeare is one mode of diverting people from such scenes, as well as going to the British Museum; and, according to that argument, therefore, the theatres may be places of diversion that ought to be opened on a Sunday. With respect therefore to these places, such as the British Museum and the National Gal-
 721
 MR. WILLIAMS  thought that the proposed change, instead of interfering with due attention on the part of the people to religious duties, would very much promote the feelings that led to practising those duties; and he hoped the noble Lord would exert his influence to get it carried into effect.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  proposed that a sum of 133,000 l.
 MR. WILLIAMS  understood it had been stated that a further sum would not be required from the Consolidated Fund, but that whatever money would be required afterwards should be repaid. Now, he objected to the principle of taxing the people of this country to relieve the distress in Ireland. If there were no other means for relieving that distress besides taxing the public, he could not conscientiously oppose the tax. But he considered this sum of money, not so much a grant to the Irish people as to the Irish landlords; and he said, if they had the same system of poor laws there as existed in this country, they would not be called on to make this grant. It was, he repeated, a most unjust principle to tax the people of this country for this purpose, when the distress might be as well removed by compelling the possessors of the land to maintain their own poor, as they did in England. Why should this difference exist? He was surprised that Irish Members did not repudiate such a system. The land of Ireland, if properly cultivated, by giving employment to the poor, could produce twice as much as it did at present. Did they mean to go on with this tax whenever this distress occurred? He had been informed by an Irish gentleman, that the people in the south of
 726
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  stated, that before any buildings were commenced, the plans and estimate would be laid before the House. The report of Mr. Blore stated at length the inconveniences to which Her Majesty was subjected from the want of proper accommodation at Buckingham Palace. That palace was originally built for George IV., and was therefore planned as for a Sovereign who had no family. It was finished for William IV.; but that Sovereign did not in effect reside there; and when Her Majesty came to reside there on her accession, no additional provision was made, such as would now fit it for the occupation of the Royal Family. The domestic offices, in particular, were on a scale totally inadequate to the wants of the establishment: they were, in fact, as inconvenient as they possibly could be. During Her Majesty's occupation of the palace various minor alterations were made, which came within the ordinary departmental expenditure; but the domestic offices were still wholly inadequate, and there was a general want of accommodation throughout the palace. It was only under these circumstances that Her Majesty had been induced to allow Her Ministers to propose that the necessary additions should be made. The inconveniences occasioned by the want of accommodation were stated at length in Mr. Blore's report, which had already been made public. He would, therefore, only refer generally to a few of them. In the first place, so limited was the room, that the space immediately under Her Majesty's own apartments was necessarily appropriated to the workshops of upholsterers and cabinet-makers, who carried on their business there, accompanied by an inconvenient noise, and with much risk to health and even personal danger from the inflame
 727 l., l.
 MR. BERNAL  thought that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated good grounds for his proposal, more especially
 728
 The EARL of LINCOLN  thought it was only necessary to prove, as the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had already (in his opinion) proved, that Her Majesty was not properly accommodated at present, to show that the vote was not premature. And if those facts were satisfactorily established, he was sure that the hon. Member for Montrose would not be disposed to object to its being passed at once. He could assure the House and the hon. Gentleman, that the whole subject had occupied the attention, and had been for a long time the subject of the most careful consideration of the late Government. Some of the objections made by the hon. Gentleman had been considered by them; and they had submitted those objections, together with the plan of Mr. Blore, to three gentlemen, Mr. Barry, Sir R. Smith, and Sir James Clark, who had reported favourably on them, and had considered that no inconvenience or danger to the health of the inmates would arise from completing the quadrangle. From the care which had been bestowed upon the subject, he thought he could assure the hon. Gentleman that most ample security would be given that the building would be in good taste, and the plans such as promised adequate accommodation. With respect to the time and the necessity for an immediate grant, he should observe that it would be of the utmost importance to have the foundations for the new building laid down as soon as possible. It was not an affair of three or four months, as the hon. Gentleman had described it, but one involving an entire year's delay. And so great was the necessity for additional room in the palace, that before the birth of the last princess, about a year ago, it was almost impossible that the royal family could be accommodated, not merely with convenience or comfort, but absolutely with decency. He hoped, therefore, that the hon. Gentleman would withdraw his Motion. The unsuitableness of the present building
 730
 MR. WILLIAMS  had seen many strange proceedings in that House, but never any stranger than the proceeding of that day. He had as great respect for Her Majesty, and as much desire that she should be properly accommodated, as any Member in the House; but he could not forget that many years had not elapsed since George III., with his very large family, not merely a family of infants, but of grown-up men and women, had found sufficient accommodation before the erection of even the present building. Since the death of that Monarch, no less than 2,000,000 l.
 MR. VILLIERS  moved—
 "That this House do resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House to consider the Laws regulating the Duty on Rye, Peas, and Beans." 734 735
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  did not know that it rested with him to admit that there had been a blunder; but he could only say that it did seem strange that the duty on peas and beans should be regulated by the price of barley. At the same time he thought his hon. Friend would admit that at this period of the Session it was not worth while to enter upon a contest by the introduction of a Bill threatened with such opposition.
 MR. VILLIERS  said, if the right hon. Gentleman would only say that the practical operation of the measure had not carried the intention of the fourth section into effect, no party in the House would take advantage of a more error, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would allow the Committee.
 MR. VILLIERS  certainly saw no impropriety in dividing upon the question; and if he now withdrew his Motion, it was only because he observed that there were
 737
 LORD GEORGE BENTINCK  admitted that this had been a blunder committed by the Members of Her Majesty's late Administration. It certainly appeared extraordinary that a set of Gentlemen who thought themselves the only practical men in the country, the only men capable of administering the affairs of the country, should have had a measure of this kind for five months under their notice, and not discover the blunder they had committed. But since the agriculturists had had the good fortune to obtain something more of protection upon peas and beans, through a blunder of the late Government, than they would have received through the good intentions of that Government, he was not disposed, without another fight, to give up any protection, small as it might be, that they might now possess. It was perfectly true that by the Act which had passed the Legislature, after five months of deliberation, rye, peas, and beans were to pay a duty which was not to be regulated by the price of the said rye, peas, and beans, but by the price of barley, so that now barley was cheap and peas and beans dear, they had to pay a high duty regulated by the low price of barley. Therefore, if barley were high, and peas and beans low, peas and beans would pay a low duty, regulated by the high price of barley. Ridiculous as this was he cared not, so long as he could retain somewhat, although not much, of protection for the agricultural interest. The duty was now 4 s. s. s. d. ad valorem 736 ad valorem s. l.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  was glad to find that the hon. Member for Coventry was the only one who opposed the present vote on the ground of unnecessary and excessive expenditure. The other hon. Gentleman seemed to oppose it only on the ground that it was to be directed to improvement of the old instead of the construction of a new palace. But he thought few would be found to agree with the views
 732
 MR. HAWES  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to make further provision for the government of the New Zealand Islands. The object of the measure, he said, was to establish a municipal and representative government in the Colony, thus carrying into effect the views of both the late and the present Government.
 MR. HAWES  hoped he should not be expected to follow the hon. Gentleman in the wide and discursive view he had taken of our colonial policy, in calling attention to a petition from Van Diemen's Land, asking for a representative government there. He quite agreed that a representative form of government was the best, and that wherever there were good elements for establishing it, it was not only the bounden duty of the country, but its interest, to establish that form of government. But the case of Van Diemen's Land was peculiar; at present the free scarcely exceeded the convict population; and therefore it did not appear at this moment a case in which we had to consider the form of government best for a free population. But the subject was occupying the attention of the noble Earl the Colonial Secretary, and of the Government generally; and in the course of the recess the whole matter of the petition would come before him. With regard to the finances and the removal of certain Members from the Legislative Council, it was sufficient to say that a new Governor had been appointed, and his attention had been directed to the removal of those parties, with a view to bring about their restoration. He could assure the hon. Member, that he hoped and trusted that the measures taken by the Government to diminish the convict population in that Colony, might enable Her Majesty's Government, in a short time, to consider a better form of government for this part of our possessions. The sending of a large number of convicts to one place, had been a signal failure; and the first thing must be to remove at least a part of the difficulty arising from the preponderance of a convict population.
 MR. C. BULLER  observed, that the present Bill was founded on one that had been bequeathed by the late Colonial Secretary. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Cambridge seemed to think that there was no necessity for such a Bill as the present; but the right hon. Baronet lately at the head of the Government, was not when in office of that opinion; for he had stated most distinctly that he and his Colleagues would feel it to be their duty either to bring in some such measure as this before the Session closed, or else to introduce an enabling Bill. The plan of government for New Zealand which was proposed by the present Bill, was the one which appeared to Her Majesty's Ministers the most likely to be acceptable to that House, and beneficial to the Colony. The Bill proposed to establish the general outline of a constitution, leaving the details to be filled up by Orders in Council, which would be adopted after consultation with the best authorities on the subject.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  wished to put a question to the right hon. Home Secretary on a subject of considerable importance. It might be in the recollection of hon. Gentlemen, that in 1843 and 1844 Bills were introduced into that House with reference to ecclesiastical courts, and that those Bills contained clauses for the abolition of all peculiars. Those measures, after much discussion, were eventually lost. He (Mr. Newdegate) understood, during the last spring, that an Order in Council appeared in, the  Gazette, 709 l. 710
 MR. PROTHEROE  felt sure there was not one of Her Majesty's subjects who would grudge any sum wanted to maintain Her Majesty in comfort and dignity. Another sentiment he believed equally universally prevailed, that the present palace was unfitting, as regarded both comfort and dignity. It was precisely on these grounds that he thought the course now proposed by Government of enlarging the present building was injudicious, and would lead only to disappointment. Ministers had no doubt been actuated by a wish to combine economy with a due regard to the dignity of the Crown; but he ventured to say that the only result would be, that a building would be erected inconsistent with the comfort of the Sovereign, and which would give displeasure to the public. This subject ought to be viewed not only in connexion with the comfort and dignity of the Sovereign, but with the interests of the metropolis. The present palace and grounds caused great inconvenience to the inhabitants of the district now called Belgravia, as was well known to those who, like himself, resided there.
 MR. ELLIOT YORKE  was opposed to any alteration of the law at the present period of the Session.
 MR. SHAW  hoped the House would not agree to the Resolution of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hume); nor did he think the speech of the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) fairly bore the interpretation put upon
 723
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that if he agreed with the hon. Member who had just sat down in thinking the abstinence from occupation and amusement on the Sabbath a prejudice, he would have no hesitation in supporting the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose. But the hon. Member and he entirely differed in opinion on that point. He admitted that drunkenness was a great source of crime and unhappiness among the lower orders; but, at the same time, his own observation of and intercourse with that class of society, led him to believe that the desecration of the Sabbath was also a source of bitter repentance, sorrow, and misfortune, as well as the crime of drunkenness. He, therefore, had come to the conclusion, that it was neither a politic nor a wise course of proceeding to attempt to expel one vice—drunkenness—by giving encouragement to another—the desecration of the Sabbath. He wished to make one observation about extending to the lower orders those recreations which he agreed in thinking could be properly made use of to humanize them, and which, on what were called the lawful days of the week, he would be disposed to encourage. The Victoria Park, in the vicinity of the metropolis, had recently been opened, and was in progress of completion; and it had been contemplated by Her Majesty's late Government to propose the erection of a building in that park as a repository for objects of curiosity and interest to the public; and there would be no difficulty in collecting such objects. There were always a number of ships in the docks which had brought articles of rarity from different countries; and he was sure the masters of such ships would be glad to deposit them in a place where they would be generally accessible. And as the docks were in the neighbourhood of the park, and as there was a large class of persons in that quarter who had no opportunity of visiting any similar place, he hoped the noble Lord would see the propriety of following up the views of his predecessors, and proposing the erection of a building
 725
 MR. GOULBURN  did not intend to offer any objection to leave being given to bring in the Bill, but must state, that unless some great emergency required it, he could not do otherwise than condemn the introduction of a constitutional measure of such importance at so late a period of the Session.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, it was obvious to the House that the present inadequate provision for the domestic accommodation of the Sovereign was admitted by all parties. The only question, therefore, that really remained for their decision was, whether that requisite accommodation was to be supplied by the alteration of the old palace, or the construction of a new one. The question was merely one of how the required accommodation could be best supplied.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that if the noble Lord had the drawing of a Bill of such a complicated commercial character, he would then have practical experience of the difficulty of preventing an occasional mistake or inconsistency creeping in.
 MR. WARBURTON  recommended the hon. Member for Wolverhampton not to divide.
 DR. BOWRING  was sorry to hear hon. Gentlemen opposite associate the rational and intellectual enjoyment of the people with the desecration of the Sabbath. It was no such thing. He would rather call it the consecration of the Sabbath, and would be disposed to give it every encouragement.
 DR. BOWRING  had stated two or three days ago that there was a great desire in the Channel Islands that the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the state of the criminal law in those islands should be empowered to extend their inquiries to the civil and municipal law. He wished to ask the right hon. Home Secretary whether the Government were prepared so to extend the power of the Commissioners?
 MR. HUME  had some days ago presented a petition from the Colony of Van Diemen's Land in favour of having a representative government, and he had also moved for a return of similar claims made by other Colonies. Ten Colonies had sent applications for representative governments; and he was strongly impressed with
 715 l. l. l.; London Gazette 716
 MR. HUME  rose to submit the following Motion, of which he had given notice:—
 "That with the view of lessening the temptation to drunkenness and immorality, and of promoting thereby the welfare of the working classes especially, and also of society generally, it is the duty of a Christian Legislature to open the British Museum, the National Gallery, and all similar public places calculated to afford innocent and instructive recreation, for the reception of visitors on Sundays and on holidays, at such hours after morning service as ginshops and public houses are open." 718 719 d. d., 720
 MR. HUME  said, that after what had passed, he would not press his Motion. He hoped that what had been stated by the noble Lord was in some degree shared by his Colleagues, and that before next year the matter would be quietly settled.
 MR. HUME  said, that he could readily suggest a site for a new palace. Let them take Kensington Palace down, and build a new and suitable one upon its site, and there was no individual who would grudge the money for such a purpose less than he. But he objected to expending money upon a useless edifice. Let them build a new palace in Kensington-gardens, and convert
 731
 MR. HUME  complained that a proposition of this nature, involving the outlay of 150,000 l., l. 729 l.,
 MR. HUME  wished it to be distinctly understood that he objected to the vote for the reasons he had already given. It had been brought forward at the end of the Session, and the House was asked to agree to it without plans, without estimates, and without reports. All he asked for was that the vote should be suspended until Parliament should meet again; and in the interim all the requisite information could be prepared. At present he was convinced that if 150,000 l.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  felt personally indebted to the right hon. Gentleman for not asking him to perform the duty of one of the Commissioners, because, if he had done so, he should have accepted it, as he should have felt bound to continue this inquiry in the most stringent manner. This was a task which he preferred not having imposed upon him; but now, as to the right hon. Gentleman reconsidering the matter, he said, that after what had oc-
 714
 MR. WAKLEY  asked whether the Home Secretary would, together with the names of the Commissioners, furnish a copy of the instructions given to them. He concurred with the hon. Member for Coventry that it would be next to impossible that the Commission would give satisfaction to the public unless his hon. Colleague was one of the Commissioners. The right hon. Gentleman said that these Commissioners were to act as judges; but he did not understand that persons so appointed were deemed to be judges, their duty being to report to that House for its information. The right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary had broached a new doctrine. He placed great confidence in the right hon. Gentleman, having taken a phrenological survey of his head. Generally speaking, when Gentlemen were appointed to important offices he made such survey, and he did not know that he had ever been more satisfied than with the right hon. Gentleman's head. His impression was, that the right hon. Gentleman had a very benevolent disposition, and he should be disappointed if the right hon. Gentleman did not prove that he had a strong love of justice. The right hon.
 713
 MR. WAKLEY  tendered his thanks to the hon. Member for Montrose, and hoped he would bring forward this Motion every Session until his object was accomplished. That the noble Lord wished that object to be effected was evident, for he had not given a direct negative to the proposition of opening these places on a Sunday, but only said, leave it to the directors. But it
 722
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department whether the information was correct, that three Gentlemen had been appointed as Commissioners to inquire into the charges preferred as to the mismanagement of the prison at Milbank; and if it were true that the Commission for that purpose did not include the name of the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Duncombe)? In asking this question, he wished to observe that, if the right hon. Gentleman had excluded the name of that hon. Gentleman from the Commission, the inquiry would not be satisfactory to the public. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would reconsider the appointment of such a Commission; for however respectable might be the names of those nominated, they would not be able to satisfy the public if the hon. Member for Finsbury were excluded.
 SIR G. GREY  replied, that it was quite true that a Commission had been prepared, and that it was confined to the names of three Gentlemen who had undertaken to perform the duties entrusted to them. The inquiry was to be directed into the conduct
 712
 SIR G. GREY  said, the hon. Gentleman had given him notice of these questions, and he was, therefore, enabled to state the law under which the Ecclesiastical Commissioners had acted, and the effect of the scheme they had prepared, which had received the approval of Her Majesty in Council. By the 6th and 7th Victoria, c. 77, see. 10, power was given to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners to prepare schemes for placing peculiars under the jurisdiction of the bishops of the dioceses in which they were respectively situated. Those schemes, however, had no effect in law until they were sanctioned by the Queen in Council. The 20th section of the Act to which he had referred contained a proviso that no Order in Council for sanctioning any such scheme should, until the expiration of a year after its issue, affect the jurisdiction of any Ecclesiastical Court. The powers thus conferred upon the Ecclesiastical Commissioners had been exercised with regard to many dioceses; but he thought the hon. Gentleman was mistaken as to the effect of those powers. The hon. Gentleman seemed to think that the effect of
 711
 SIR G. GREY  said, as the hon. and learned Gentleman had given him notice of his intention to put this question, he had considered the subject, and had communicated with the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the criminal law in the Channel Islands. The Commissioners were of opinion that an inquiry should be made into the state of the civil and municipal, as well as of the criminal law; but they considered that such inquiries ought not to be concurrent, or at least to be mixed up together. They had already made considerable progress in their inquiries with regard to the criminal law; and they entertained a decided opinion, that to mix up the two inquiries would be prejudicial to both. He (Sir G. Grey), therefore, thought that it would be better to defer extending the powers of the Commisioners until the result of their present inquiries was ascertained.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that when the Commission received Her Majesty's sanction, he should not object to lay the instructions on the Table. He did not think that the analogy attempted to be drawn between a Commission of this kind and a Parliamentary Committee was good. When a Member brought forward a petition containing charges against a public department, it was customary to place such Member on the Committee of Inquiry, and there were also Members nominated who were supposed to take a different view of the case in favour of the public department. The Government, in selecting the Members of the Commission, had chosen men whose ability, and character, and impartiality, were likely to carry weight. When he called them judges, he did not mean that they were to decide on the case, but that they must be judges to a certain extent of the effect of the evidence and of the manner in which the witnesses gave their testimony.
 SIR G. GREY  explained that he had not used the word "accuser" in any invidious sense, or as meaning to convey that the hon. Gentleman had done anything more than what was his duty to do as a Member of Parliament. He used the word as signifying that the hon. Member had, independent of the petition of Mr. Barker, stated that he himself was prepared to substantiate charges against the officers of the prison.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  supported the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose. There was this distinction between the opening of theatres on Sundays and the
 724
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  hoped that when any arrangement was made for the disposal of the site of the Marine Palace at Brighton, it would be remembered that, in order to suit the convenience of George IV., when Prince of Wales, the people of Brighton had given up the principal road into that town, and that measures would be taken to restore to the town what had then been relinquished.
 SIR W. CLAY  warmly supported the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman. If such a building were erected, he was sure the objects would rapidly accumulate.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in consequence of what fell from the hon. Members for Cambridge and Birmingham when this Bill was last before the House, he should propose such words as Amendments in the Bill as would meet the objections raised, and prevent the colonial legislatures from laying unfair duties on British produce and manufactures.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, his noble Friend had told the House that half the Members were gone to the moors, and he had certainly been in hopes that his noble
 740 741
 MR. BERNAL  considered that the hon. Member for Birmingham had not established any real and substantial objections against this Bill. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Spooner) had stated, that, if this measure in its present shape was sanctioned by Parliament, the colonists would be able to impose discriminating duties against British goods; but the Chancellor of the Exchequer had expressed his readiness to introduce words to guard against that contingent mischief. He (Mr. Bernal) supported the Bill, because, as the colonists had been deprived of protection, he thought they ought to participate in all the advantages of free trade.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  did not mean to state that in some future Session it might not be necessary to regulate the colonial trade by an Imperial Act; but when it was said, that this Bill violated a sacred principle, and that the British Constitution was sacrificed by it, he begged to remind the House that this sacred principle was only of twenty years' standing.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  rose to move, that the Bill be read a third time that day three months. The effect of this Bill would be to take away the monopoly that, up to the present time, the manufactures and produce of Great Britain had enjoyed in the British Colonies. It would also altogether overturn the colonial system of this country, which had consisted in defraying colonial expenses by the monopoly of trade which her subjects had enjoyed with the Colonics. If the present Bill passed, the first act of the British colonial legislatures would be to do away with all differential duties. The effect of the recent free-trade measures had not been such as to afford the House much encouragement to proceed in the same course. The passing of the Corn Bill, and the prospect of the passing of the Sugar Bill, had not appeared to have secured the prosperity of the manufacturers, as they were told. At Oldham, Stockport, Ashton, Dukinfield, and in some places in Yorkshire, the master manufacturers had already given notice to their workmen of a reduction of five per cent in their wages, telling them that as food was cheaper, they could afford to work follower wages. The effect of the recent free-trade measures upon Manchester was described in a circular by Messrs. Gibson and Ord, who stated that there had never
 739 s. l.
 MR. ESCOTT  conceived that the Bill was, under the circumstances of the case, quite proper, and not in itself of that importance which the opposition of the noble Lord the Member for Lynn would indicate. However, the opposition of the noble Lord imparted more importance to it. He referred to an after-dinner speech which the noble Lord had delivered either at a banquet at which the Duke of Rutland was present, or some other banquet, observing that that speech had given the noble Lord a power which he had not hitherto possessed; and in the present political state of parties in the country, the noble Lord's support of, or opposition to, any measure became important. The noble Lord's power had also been increased by the conduct of the Government within the last fortnight; but he would at present say no more on this point, because Tuesday would be the proper time to enter on the discussion. [The hon. Member was understood to allude to the Irish Arms Bill, which is fixed for discussion on Tuesday next.] The noble Lord had said that he would not fight a sham battle on behalf of the Colonies; but his Friends in another place had been doing so; and the people of England knew it was a sham fight from first to last in favour of that colonial protection which was well known now to be utterly untenable in principle.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  thought the Bill a most important one as an infraction of
 746
 MR. BRIGHT  said, perhaps the noble Lord the Member for Lynn had been down in the manufacturing districts, and he had there picked up the information with which he had to-day favoured the House. He (Mr. Bright) fancied, however, if the real secret were known how the noble Lord had obtained his information, it would be found that he had derived it from the co-
 742 Standard s. s., 743
 MR. HENLEY  considered that the Bill would not confer any great boon on the colonists, but that it would place a very objectionable power in their hands of establishing differential duties against the mother country. He thought that a measure of this nature ought not to be brought forward at this advanced period of the Session, when scarcely any Members of the Legislature, except the immediate Members of the Government, were enabled to express their opinions upon it.
 MR. M. GORE  considered that the adoption of this Bill would involve the relinquishment by that House of the supremacy which it now exercised over our colonial dependencies.
 MR. SPOONER  had intended, if he had caught the Speaker's eye, to move that the Bill be recommitted. He should now vote in favour of the Motion of the noble Lord, that the Bill be read a third time that day three months. He considered that the power which would be given to our colonists by this Bill was likely to involve us in disputes with foreign nations, against whom differential duties might be established by the colonial legislatures. Although he was of opinion that the principle of protection to native industry ought never to have been abandoned, yet as they had adopted the principles of free trade, he thought those principles ought now to be carried out to their fullest extent; and he therefore did not oppose the Bill on the ground that it removed protection. The noble Lord the Member for Lynn had said, that the manufacturers of this country had no wish to retain the navigation laws; but he could assure the noble Lord that the manufacturers were fully aware of the importance of maintaining our navy in a state of efficiency. He thought that the navigation laws should not be considered merely as a matter of wealth and commerce, but as connected with the safety and honour of the country. The effect of this Bill would be to enable the colonial legislatures to alter the rate of duties in such a manner as practically to create a monopoly against this country. He considered that the West Indian colonists should be allowed to import provisions and manufactures at as cheap a rate as possible; but he did not think they ought to be entrusted with the power of imposing differential duties, which might enable them to establish a monopoly against the mother country.
 SIR HOWARD DOUGLAS  said, this Bill was a more immediate and portentous confirmation of his apprehensions of the gradual subversion of the colonial system, than he could have expected. That it would destroy the uniformity which ought to subsist in the commercial regulations of the Empire, under the paramount and exclusive authority of the Imperial Par-
 744 745
 LORD J. RUSSELL  did not believe that any provision had yet been made for the widow and family of Sir Robert Sale. With regard to any intention of making such a provision, it was impossible for him to advise the Crown on that point without means being first afforded by Parliament to Her Majesty to enable Her to carry out such an intention. When sitting on the other side of the House, he certainly did state that there were several cases of this description which he thought were deserving
 752 l. l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, in rising to move the Order of the Day for going into Committee on the Public Works (Ireland) Bill, I wish to observe that there is another Bill before the House which has excited considerable attention, and in reference to which several hon. Gentlemen have given notices of Motion. I think it would be convenient to the House, therefore, that I should state the intention of Her Majesty's Government with reference to that Bill. The Bill I allude to is the Arms (Ireland) Bill, the second on the list of Orders of the Day. That Bill was introduced by my right hon. Friend near me, the Secretary for Ireland, upon the ground that Her Majesty's Ministers having but lately come into office, and having many other subjects pressing upon them at this time, it was desirable to obtain the renewal of the Arms Act until the next spring; in order that Her Majesty's Government might consider the whole of its provisions, to see whether any of those provisions were necessary, whether the system should be altogether abandoned, or whether any other provision should be introduced in its place. It appears to me that that was a reasonable proposition, considering that the system of having restrictions on the possession of arms in Ireland has lasted, not only for fifty years, to which I referred the other day in debate, but that in fact it has been in practice ever since the period of the Revolution of 1688. But when that proposition
 754 755
 The EARL of LINCOLN  understood that the statue was to be placed on the arch for three weeks. He was sure the public would be very glad to hear Her Majesty's Government was to sit on the arch—[ a laugh
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, I shall not attempt to answer precisely and categorically all the questions which have been asked by my hon. Friend who has just sat down; but this I will say, that the noble Duke the Commander-in-Chief intends to do that which he has declared he will do, and does not intend to evade any declaration which he has made, either to this or to the other House of Parliament. Now it would be a complete evasion of the declaration we have received, if any system were adopted by which the violence of twenty-five lashes was so increased as to be as severe as 1,000 lashes. Corporal punishment will be inflicted as it was inflicted before; and any instructions or regulations as to the size and strength of the instrument will be given by the military authorities. As to the medical attendants certifying that the continued flogging of a man was dangerous, and the remainder of the punishment being inflicted on a second occasion, I do not think it is likely to be required with the present amount of corporal punishment, diminished as it will be in future. With respect to the diminution of punishment to fifty lashes being applicable to the European and Native troops of the East India Company, I may observe that they are regulated by articles of war of their own; but I have no doubt that when the opinion of the noble Duke is known, that similar orders will be given with respect to the Native troops in the East India
 759
 MR. WILLIAMS  wished to know if the same regulations were to be applied to the navy as to the army. He thought they were as necessary in the one service as in the other, and he hoped that both would be placed on the same footing. As the law stood at present, the captain of a ship could punish a man on seeing him commit an offence. It was evidence enough if the captain saw it; but in any other case the man would have to be reported by the officer, and an inquiry would be made into the circumstances.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Mr. Speaker, I believe the noble Lord has correctly stated that a person, Mr. Gorton, was placed on the commission of the peace for the duchy of Lancaster by the noble Lord opposite when he was Chancellor of the Duchy, who had been convicted in 1831 of a fraud on the Excise. Lord Campbell found that he had been placed there; and my noble and learned Friend had a correspondence on the subject which I have not yet seen, but of which he has communicated to me the result. It appears that Mr. Gorton was placed in the commission of the peace without any solicitation of his own, and therefore Lord Campbell thought it would not be right to inflict that stigma upon him of removing him immediately from the commission of the peace, and that it would seem as if he had been placed there merely for the purpose of inflicting disgrace upon him. But my noble and learned Friend has taken sufficient precautions that he should not qualify, and that he should never act as a magistrate. As I have stated, I have not yet seen the correspondence; but when I have, I shall be able to give my noble Friend (Lord G. Bentinck) any further satisfaction he may require as to the facts of the case.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, it is with great pain I rise to call the attention of the House to the present state of the distress in Ireland; and in doing so, I shall consider it my duty to refer to what has been done in the course of last year, and the spring of this year by the late Government on the subject of the failure of the potato crop; and whatever sorrow I may feel in having to bring this subject before the House in the present state of the crop in Ireland, yet I shall endeavour in doing so to avoid any subject which can give rise to any party division or excite any feelings of animosity. The Committee may recollect, that towards the end of last year considerable alarm was felt with regard to the state of the potato crop in Ireland, and also in some parts of Scotland. I think it necessary to state that alarm was felt to a great degree, if not a greater degree than usual,
 767 768 l., l. Correspondence relative to the Measures for the Relief of Distress arising from the Failure of the Potato Crop in Ireland. l. l. 769 l. l. l., l. l. 770 "The works, considering the materials with which we have to work, are progressing, except in very few instances, satisfactorily; and I may add, that the works undertaken have been works of public utility. Distress would at this moment be general though out the country, were it not that the Government have by means of the public works rescued the people from the deadly grasp of starvation which threatened them; and I am happy in having it in my power to state, on the best authority, that the poor people of Clare were never so well provided for as they have been this season. There are some localities where distress pressed with some severity, but was in most cases promptly relieved; and I believe I could say with confidence that there has not been a single case of starvation throughout this county, and there are fewer cases of sickness, particularly fever, than for many years past. I have heard this remark made by the Roman Catholic clergy throughout the entire county." 771 l. d. 772 "From personal inspections of some of the works in progress, the Board discovered that many individuals were employed who had not been supplied with tickets. Instructions were immediately given to put a stop to such improper and irregular proceedings, which became the more necessary as we experienced the injurious results of it. The great public works of the improvement of the Shannon and drainage were left without workmen; and, strange as it may appear, men who were, by measurement, earning 1 s. d. s. d. d. "Nothing can be finer than the corn crops now being cut, but slowly, I am told, for want of labourers, resulting, it is to be feared, from the injudicious continuance of public works, as well as in the mismanagement of some committees, in not
 773 d. d. "I regret to say that the destruction of the potato crop is proceeding more rapidly than could ever have been expected. It is the same with my own, which have had the benefit of the best care and draining in the cultivation. They are now
 774 "It is my painful duty to write to you on the state of the county of Fermanagh, and of that part of the county of Cavan which borders upon it. Till within the last three weeks the potato crop was most promising; but the disease has since broken out in it with such violence, and so universally, that there is no prospect of a potato in the county at Christmas. My own fields are as bad, if not worse than those of my neighbours, although they have had all the advantage of good drainage. I consider it my duty to report the fearful state of the county." "I beg leave to report to you the result of our examination of the potato crop in Athlone. We proceeded in the direction of two lines diverging from the high road between the two towns mentioned. My attention was directed to the appearance of the potato ground, and the result of my observations was that there was scarcely a field that had not received the blight. It was easy to see this by the state of the stalks which were blackened. But we also entered a great number of fields, and had the roots taken up; in almost every case the tubers were diseased. The conclusion to which I have come, is that the crops for the present year will have lost three-fourths of their produce. The wheat crops are already under the sickle, and are very fine. The oats will be in in about ten days, and they also are very good crops. It now becomes my duty to state to you the condition of the relief works, and what I think it would be necessary to do in consequence. In consequence of the farmers paying higher wages just at present than the Board of Works, the number of persons employed on the public works, is much decreased. An order has therefore, been made, that if labourers do not present themselves within a given time, those works shall be stopped which have been deserted by the workmen. But I have every reason to believe that as soon as the crops shall have been finally gathered in, which will be in about ten days' time, there will then be a general rush for
 775 776 l. 777 778 
 "1. That the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury be authorized to direct the issue, out of the Consolidated Fund of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, or the issue of Exchequer Bills, of any sum not exceeding 175,000 l., l., "2. That the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury be authorized to direct Advances to be made by way of Loan out of the Consolidated Fund of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, or by the issue of Exchequer Bills, to defray the expense of Public Works presented for in Ireland, to facilitate the employment of the labouring Poor. "3. That the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury be authorized to direct the issue of any sum not exceeding 50,000 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would take that opportunity to read one of two letters he had received that morning, and which he believed would be satisfactory to the House. He might, however, state, in addition to what his noble Friend had said, that it was not the intention at all to import food for the use of the people of Ireland. In fact, many merchants had declared that they would not import food at all if it were the intention of the Government to do so, and unless
 779 "Liverpool, August 15, 1846. "Dear Sir—I think it right to mention to you that I am informed by some of the leading merchants in the corn trade that very large orders for Indian corn have been sent out to America, and they are now being sent out to an unprecedentedly large extent, for the supply of Ireland, the vessels, in many cases, being chartered to call at Cork or Falmouth (as the wind may serve) for orders. "Indian corn has also been ordered, to a great extent, from Trieste, Corfu, and other ports in the Mediterranean. The trade in Indian corn being now quite free, it is hoped that Government will not interfere with the regular operations of commerce, as they did last year, when, owing to commercial restrictions, the Government alone could make the importation. "The supply of Ireland may now be safely left to the merchants, who will manage the transaction much more economically that can be done by the Government. "The price of Indian corn in this market is from 28 s. s.
 MR. D. BROWNE  said, if anything could convince him that a local Parliament for Ireland would not be necessary, it would be the speech and the proposition of the noble Lord, and the way in which both had been received by the House. He felt confident that both would meet with the approbation of the people of Ireland, and would induce them to place dependence on the good disposition of the Government; and, furthermore, that they would not be led into those excesses into which a more patient people might be betrayed under prospects so disastrous as those of Ireland appeared to be. From the county he represented, he had received the most fearful details, not only of the present distress, but also of the prospect for the future, and he had petitions to present to the House in which it was stated that in two months there would be in the county of Mayo no food for the people. In giving this praise to the present Government, he by no means wished, however, to make any invidious comparison with the late one, which had acted with the greatest alacrity and benevolence. Nothing was more calculated than their conduct had been to remove from the minds of the people of Ireland the impressions produced by their conduct in other matters, to which he would not now allude. But if the late Government
 780 781
 MR. WILLIAMS  considered that the Government and Parliament were only discharging their duty in taking measures to provide against the threatened famine in Ireland. Under the system of Poor Laws established in England, provision was made for every man. That provision might not be so adequate as it ought to be; but still no human being could be placed in a position of destitution without having the means, by law, of obtaining relief. The same system must be extended to Ireland. He was quite convinced that if a system of Poor Laws, enforcing outdoor relief, were introduced into Ireland, the landlords would then discover means of obtaining employment for the poor, and the destitution of that country would, to a very great extent, be superseded by an extension of labour such as would prove highly advantageous to the landlords of Ireland themselves.
 The EARL of LINCOLN  regretted that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) had not omitted the last portion of his speech, and that he had not left the case in the position in which it had been left by the First Lord of the Treasury; for certainly he had not expected to hear from the Secretary for Ireland so strong an argument, not only against everything that had been done by the late Government, but against everything that the present Government was about to do. If any reliance could be placed upon the letters which the right hon. Gentleman had read, if it could be proved that such gross and monstrous
 785 786 787 788 789 790
 SIR J. D. NORREYS  wished that the Legislature of the country would, in a future Session, bring forward such measures for the permanent relief of Ireland as would remove from the people of that country the necessity of coming to the British Legislature in the character of supplicants. Ireland had mines of the most extensive and valuable description; it had rivers peculiarly adapted for commerce and manufactures; and yet, in consequence of the Legislature not looking to the subject of the improvement of Ireland in a proper light, all those natural resources of wealth and comfort were allowed to lie waste and useless. He hoped the noble Lord would have the courage to attack the grand jury system in Ireland. The noble Lord wished to remove from the old grand jury system the power of taxation. He (Sir J. D. Norreys) would recommend him, instead of letting the selection of what was to be done in the way of public works remain with the baronies, to transfer the selection to the poor-law unions. Let the electoral divisions make the selections, and the unions have power to tax themselves. They would thus get rid of the baronies and the grand jury system at once.
 SIR R. FERGUSON  thought that the sums to be raised should be raised upon the poor-law assessment, through the poor-law guardians, and the electoral divisions should be made responsible for the sums to be laid out within them. Provision should be made, of course, for the election of the boards of guardians. The election was at present excellent; but if they were to have the arrangement of assessment for public works, there would be much difficulty. There was one point to which he wished to draw attention, which had been overlooked as yet, and that was that the Board of Works in Ireland had been totally incompetent to the business entrusted to it. He gave the Board credit for the best possible intentions; but they were unable to manage the business which devolved upon them. He would read an extract from their report, which would exemplify the fact:—
 "There is no doubt that many works were commenced without necessity. It is true the representations were extremely urgent and pressing, and therefore great precaution and judgment were necessary."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had heard nearly all the speeches delivered that evening with great satisfaction, and especially the speeches of the hon. Members for Coventry and Mallow, though they spoke on different sides of the question. He most willingly bore testimony to the wisdom of the measures taken by the late Government. The present Government had had the benefit of those measures, and if they had been able to improve upon them it should not be forgotten that they had had the benefit of
 796 797 798
 LORD J. RUSSELL  thought the hon. Gentleman himself had given a very distinct answer to the question, when he said the Corn Laws were settled. And to-morrow he should certainly say no more than he said now, that it was not his intention to unsettle that Corn Law.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSON  said: Sir, nothing can be more painful to men of proper feeling than discussions turning on the subject of Poland, because they relate to a great and a noble people, who, in former times, held a prominent position in the community of European nations, and who, by injustice of the greatest magnitude—though at a period now remote—were deprived of their national existence, and have gradually been absorbed within the territories of neighbouring countries. But the events to which these recollections apply are events which are now matters of history; and whatever may be the aspirations, of those who belong to that nation, who, looking back to the ancient glories of their country, think that the time may arise when the former condition of Poland may be re-established, we, sitting in this House and knowing what are the treaties and engagements by which the Powers of Europe are bound, and by which the present distribution of Europe has been regulated, cannot in our considerations go farther back than the Treaty of Vienna. But to that we are ready to go, and on that we have a right to take our stand. Sir, the Motion which my hon. Friend has made, is one that I cannot think it my duty to accede to. My hon. Friend has moved for the production of correspondence which took place between the British Government and the Governments of Austria, Russia,
 827 exequatur 828 829 830 831 832 833
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he should not be sorry to save any money; but he thought the Government could not in justice accede to the proposition of the hon. Member for Montrose. For himself, he never attached any great value to any plan of retirement; but a promotion to the value of 30,000 l.
 CAPTAIN CORRY  heard with great satisfaction that the present Government were favourable to a well-considered plan
 843
 ADMIRAL DUNDAS  thought it extraordinary that on one side it was said the compulsory clause ought to be insisted on, on the other that it ought not. It was said that no man ought to be made a flag-officer who was not fit for service; but there were men on the list who could not be passed over: he would mention names—there was Sir J. Pechell, who, from ill-health, was incapable of service; yet what Board of Admiralty would venture to pass him over?
 MR. WILLIAMS  said, they ought not to agree to this vote without having some distinct plan laid before the House; the Chancellor of the Exchequer had scarcely given any explanation of it. He would do the late Government the credit of saying, that they never asked for money without being prepared to state the reasons for the vote; now, for two successive nights they had been asked for two important votes without having had any knowledge whatever of them. He thought this was treating the House of Commons with contempt. If a plan was laid down for a retirement, with a limit fixed for promotions afterwards, there might be some advantage in such a plan. He had heard that the Duke of Wellington objected to the present proposition—["No, no!"]—he had heard it from good authority. The Duke said — and with sound reason—if they promoted the navy in this way, they must give him the power of promoting the generals of the army also; and there was nothing unreasonable in the demand. He did not see how the House could resist it from the Commander-in-Chief. Without some specific plan before them, he could not vote the money, and should divide the Committee against it.
 The HON. W. F. COWPER  rose to propose that a sum of money should be granted to Her Majesty for the allowance to retired naval officers. He said the proposition he had to make was a renewal of the vote of last year; but a sufficient number of officers not having applied, the money was not used. The subject had been since under the consideration of the Board of Admiralty, and another plan had been adopted for the regulation of the retired allowance to naval officers with due regard for their feelings. As the plan would appear in an official way, he would not enter on the details; but he might say that the vote would be kept to the same amount of money as before, and that as the terms proposed by the late Board of Admiralty were not considered sufficiently favourable by the officers, the present Board were disposed to make more advantageous offers. They contemplated a retirement of 200 captains. They proposed that the vacancies should be filled up by officers of twenty years' standing, who had passed fifty-five years of age, and that the 200 vacancies should be given to the applicants by seniority from the list of captains—those in the first 100 receiving 14 s. d. s. d. l. s. 839 l.
 MR. COWPER  said, that the hon. Member assumed that the Government had no plan. He, on the contrary, affirmed that the Government had a plan. Technically speaking, the House of Commons had nothing to do with plans which the Executive devised, or were to carry out. That which the House of Commons had to do was to vote or to refuse money.
 MR. C. BERKELEY  said, he would not have ventured to intrude upon the House at such a time had not the conduct of Her Majesty's Government been such as he could not help disapproving. He was informed that Her Majesty, under the advice of his noble Friend opposite (Lord Morpeth), had signified to the committee
 756
 LORD G. BENTINCK , rose to call the attention of the House, pursuant to his notice, to the state of the carrying trade between this country and the Spanish Colonies. In doing so, he begged to apologize to, and express his sympathy with, his noble Friend at the head of the Government, that he was not in the Highlands: and to assure his noble Friend, that in calling the attention of the House to the subject in question, he intended to make no observations of an aggressive nature on Her Majesty's Ministers. The grievance of which he had to complain was one of many years' endurance on the part of the commerce of this country—it was a matter upon which the merchants of Liverpool had been continually remonstrating for the last twelve years. They then in vain called the attention of his Grace the Duke of Wellington, at that time Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, to this grievance. From year to year they had since applied to his noble Friend the Secretary for Foreign Affairs; and upon the change of the Whig Government—from 1842 to the present time—it had been a complaint with the merchants of Liverpool, that by the regulations of the Spanish Government—by the non-reciprocity of the Spanish Government—by the free admission the Spanish Government afforded to Spanish in comparison with British vessels—they had lost, not certainly the whole, but the very much larger part of the carrying trade with the Spanish Colonies. He was bound to apologize to the House for the imperfect manner in which he should be obliged to bring the question forward; it was only within the last few days he had been called upon by the merchants of Liverpool to interpose with Her Majesty's Government, that justice might
 800 l. l.; l.; l.; l. ad valorem, l., l. l. s. d.; 801 l. s. d., l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. 802 l.; l., l., l. l., l., l. l., l. l. l. 803 s. s. l. l. 804 "With respect to the navigation laws the only true principle of politics was that principle to be found in the old navigation laws of England, which had been invented by some old statesmen in Cromwell's days." 805
 LORD G. BENTINCK  rose to ask a question, of which he had given notice the other night, with respect to the appointment of a gentleman as a magistrate on the bench within the jurisdiction of the duchy of Lancaster, of whom it was said that some years ago he was convicted of
 761 l. l., 762
 LORD G. SOMERSET  hoped the House would bear with him, while he endeavoured to explain the circumstances under which this appointment had been made. He should apply himself simply to the facts of the case as they occurred, and to his own conduct in making the erroneous nomination—erroneous certainly, so far that he should have cleared up the point before he
 763 764
 MR. DISRAELI : I consider, Sir, that the adoption of measures of retaliation must depend entirely upon circumstances; and the success of such retaliatory measures must depend, of course, upon the forming of a prudent judgment with reference to those circumstances. With regard to the case to which the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs has referred, it affords no proof of the inexpediency of retaliation. The noble Lord has confounded (perhaps not unintentionally for the purposes of debate)—the noble Lord has confounded retaliatory duties upon articles of commercial exchange with retaliatory duties upon the means of conveying those articles of commerce from another country—the retaliation to which my noble Friend
 811 812 813 814
 MR. B. ESCOTT  said, he would tomorrow ask the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Russell), if it was his intention to continue, under existing circumstances, and
 799
 MR. B. ESCOTT  said, it appeared to him that they were agreed on all hands as to the necessity of doing something for the Irish people. The Government of the noble Lord and of the right hon. Baronet were equally desirous of doing good for, and had equally good intentions towards,
 795
 MR. GOULBURN  hoped the hon. Gentleman would not persist in dividing the Committee against the grant. It was very well to say he would not consent to the vote till they had some plan before them; but if one was proposed, would the hon. Gentleman support it? The proposition was in the nature of an offer to those officers who would accept it, and with this condition it was impossible to lay down an absolute plan.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the good-service pensions of captains were derived from a fund applied solely to captains, and the good-service pensions of admirals from a fund applicable only to admirals; and it had been the custom when a captain was promoted to the rank of admiral that the pension was not derived afterwards from the captains' fund.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  feared what he had said had been misapprehended by the noble Lord who had just sat down. He thought he had done ample justice to the late Government for the measures they had adopted for preventing a famine in Ireland. He had, however, deemed it right to state that, though those measures might have been necessary, they had been attended with some evil effects. In order to justify this statement, he might appeal to the published correspondence, page 341, where, in a Treasury minute, it was stated that—
 "Those parts of the operations for the relief of the people which stand most in need of correction, are stated to be connected with the imperfect manner in which some of the local relief committees have executed the duties entrusted to them." 791 "It appears, as well from the report now before this Board as from the previous correspondence on the subject, that tickets for employment on the relief works have, in numerous instances, been distributed by the members of those committees, without regard either to the real circumstances of the applicants, or to the number of persons who could properly be employed—that the ordinary resort of Irish labourers to England, for the purpose of participating in the high wages consequent on the getting in of the hay and corn harvest, has been in some parts of the country suspended—that the great public works for the improvement of the Shannon and for the drainage of the country have to a considerable extent been left without workmen; and the people employed on the relief works have indulged in habits of indolence, preferring the receipt of an eleemosynary allowance under the name of wages to higher wages proportioned to the labour performed."
 MR. LABOUCHERE  had no intention of entering on the difficult and controverted question as to the introduction of a system of Poor Laws into Ireland different from that which had already been established in that part of the United Kingdom. Any person who had paid the most cursory attention to the subject knew its difficulty. But while it deserved the most careful consideration on its own merits, he must be permitted to observe, that any incidental discussion upon such a question seemed to be altogether useless. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had stated that the Government had altogether abstained from calling upon the landlords of Ireland to take measures in reference to the distress which was impending. The hon. Gentleman could not have attended to the statement of the noble Lord at the head of the Government (Lord J. Russell). For what did the noble Lord propose to do in the measure he had submitted to the House? He proposed, and rightly, not only to empower, but to require the property of Ireland to meet the circumstances of distress and destitution which the failure of the potato crop had brought upon their country. But while the State required that the landlords should take upon themselves this burden and responsibility, it was due to them, in the circumstances
 782 783 "The Indian meal was sold indiscriminately 20 per cent under prime cost, and the greater part was bought up in large quantities by the farmers with the proceeds of their potatoes in — market, and almost all the farmers have reared their calves upon it." "The — got a large sum to spend, and set about public works; allowed the highest wages, employed a great number of men, mostly not persons in want, allowed those to bully them into letting them do as they pleased, and so scandalous an exhibition as these crowds of people working  pro formâ, 784
 MR. WARBURTON  begged to ask a question of the right hon. Baronet the President of the Board of Control. In the  Stamford Mercury "On the succeeding morning we commenced maiming and shooting all the prisoners, which dreadful work occupied us nearly the whole of the day. On the 22nd we commenced our march," &c.
 DR. BOWRING  rose to ask the question of which he had given notice. He had heard with great satisfaction from the lips of the noble Duke at the head of the army that the time would soon come when corporal punishments should cease, and that he hoped to live to see the day when they would be altogether abolished. His
 758
 DR. BOWRING  said, that whilst Poland remained what Poland was, she would still be the subject of disquietude—there would still be hopes, and efforts would be made for the redemption of that country. Those hopes would find a response in the bosom of every lover of liberty; and those efforts in spite of tyranny would find encouragement. It was not a question which would be easily settled; it had returned from year to year, and it would return again. He rejoiced that the Treaty of Vienna had been violated by those who made it—by those who had derived so much from it. The noble Lord said, wisely, that it would be very bold, impolitic, and reckless of the Powers of the north to treat that Treaty with indifference; yet they had done so—it was not respected for a moment when their interests prompted them to break it. He (Dr. Bowring) must admit that the noble Lord, who had just sat down, had done everything in his power to procure the appointment of a diplomatic agent at Cracow; and he for one, believed, that had there been a diplomatic agent in Cracow, such was
 834
 MR. J. A. SMITH  concurred in thanking the noble Lord for the speech he had made. He thanked him for the frank and generous way he had admitted that the Treaty of Vienna had been violated. He thanked him for the confession of his belief in the truth of the charges which had been brought against the Government of Vienna, and the avowal of his belief that the statement of horrors which had been alluded to was fully borne out by the facts. He thanked him for that avowal, because he had an entire belief himself in the truth of those representations. The noble Lord had declared his belief that the Government of Austria must have been ignorant
 835 836
 MR. HENLEY  would not say anything in opposition to the measure, for he thought that, with the prospect which the country presented before them, a more wise arrangement could not have been adopted. But it was vain to look at the measure as one of a mere temporary nature to meet a present emergency. The disease in the potato had been going on in America for four years past. It was known in these countries only two years. It had not ceased in America as yet; and there was no telling what the final result would be in this country. His main object in rising was to call attention to those matters, in order that the House might not be called upon in another Session for another temporary measure. They should be prepared to do something permanent. It would, however, be satisfactory to the people of this country to know that the House was much more liberal to their poor fellow subjects in Ireland than to the poor of England; for in the instructions to the inspectors of relief works, the very first was—
 "The inspecting officer will in every case revise the lists of labourers employed upon relief works, so as to confine the persons to whom wages are for the future to be paid to those who are proved to have no other means of subsistence; and he will take care that the rule, that tickets are to be signed by two members, and are to be issued only through the secretary, as well as the other regulations
 792
 MR. HUME  was pleased to hear the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, because that was the language that ought to come from an Irish landed proprietor. He was pleased to hear that the landlords of Ireland were prepared to provide for the necessities of the people of that country as far as possible, in the encouragement of public works; for until they were prepared to do so, and to raise the funds from their own lands for their
 793
 MR. HUME , after the expression given by the noble Lord (Lord Palmerston) of his sentiments upon the subject, would readily withdraw his Motion.
 MR. HUME  could not but think that the hon. Gentleman had given an answer to himself. On reference to the return of shipping at Havannah, he found for one English vessel, fifteen or twenty Americans; and on examining the exports and imports, the hon. Member would find that America was able to supply staves, provisions, and all the articles the colony wanted, and took from that colony its sugar and produce. The Americans, had therefore, the double advantage—they went there with a cargo of the produce of their country, which was required by that colony, and they brought back the produce of that colony in return. But what did they (the English) do? They had not provisions or other articles which that colony required. They had manufactured articles, it was true, but they went in very small bulk compared with the produce of that colony. America, from its proximity, was peculiarly favoured in carrying that produce; but what did they (the English) do? Did they take any of its sugar? No, they rejected its sugar; and could they be surprised that the Americans, going with a cargo and taking a cargo in return, were able to have the carrying trade, while they were deprived of it? But they had done something for the cure of this during the present Session; and the moment they received in England the produce of that colony, they would see that English shipping would be employed. It was their own fault that they had hitherto been excluded; but now that Government were taking
 815
 MR. HUME  said, he had given notice on a subject which for many months had occupied much of his time. In the month of April last, he had asked whether there was any objection to lay on the Table of the House copies of correspondence, or whether there was any, with respect to the unfortunate state of Cracow. On the 22nd of February, the army of Austria, and afterwards of Russia and Prussia, took possession of that place, and the atrocities that followed in Gallicia were appalling to any individual who read them, and it appeared they took place under circumstances where we were in some degree entitled to interfere. The right hon. Baronet then at the head of the Government very candidly stated his abhorrence of the accounts that had been received. He said he could not believe them, and begged of him not to press his Motion at that time. The right hon. Baronet said information might be obtained at a future period without embroiling the Government by any interference in that House. He would be the last person to interfere in any question that would risk the peace of the world or the peaceful relations of this country with any State; but here there were circumstances in which they were placed by treaties which rendered it absolutely necessary—nay, which rendered it the imperative duty of that House, in the maintenance of the honour of the country—to demand the observance of those treaties by which they were bound. The Treaty of Vienna was a treaty which he had always complained of, inasmuch as they became bound by it to maintain the continental system. It might have led them, as it did in some degree, to be embroiled in the disputes of the Continent; and he had often regretted that those treaties had been entered into; but Administration after Administration had thought fit to maintain those treaties, and it then became a question whether there was any portion of them that more immediately deserved the consideration of the House than another. It became a question whether they, in that House, having to maintain the honour of
 816 817 "The Poles who are respective subjects of Russia, Austria, and Prussia shall obtain a representation and national institutions regulated according to the degree of political consideration that each of the Governments to which they belong shall judge expedient and proper to grant them." "The Courts of Russia, Austria, and Prussia engage to respect, and to cause to be always respected, the neutrality of the free town of Cracow and its territory. No armed force shall be introduced upon any pretence whatever." 818 "The three Courts engage to respect, and to cause to be respected at all times, the neutrality of the free city of Cracow and its territory, and no armed force shall enter it under any pretence whatsoever." 819 820 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty that She will be graciously pleased to give directions that there be laid before this House Copies or Extracts of any Correspondence between the Government of Her Majesty and the Governments of Cracow, Russia, Prussia, or Austria, relative to the appointment of a British Consular Agent at Cracow, since the declaration made by the Minister of Foreign Affiairs in the House of Commons, in the year 1836, of his intention of sending a Consul to reside at Cracow."
 MR. HUME  observed that, in 1827, when he exposed in that House various abuses which existed in the navy, an order was made that for every three deaths there should be one promotion. An order of date 28th of May, 1838, had put it into the power of the Admiralty to promote when they pleased. The House ought to have a list of the retired admirals, with their services, before voting the grant. With the present prospect of peace before him, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had better not call upon the House to agree to this half-prepared measure, respecting which the Government admitted they had not quite made up their minds.
 MR. M. GORE  expressed himself much satisfied with the speech of the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs. It was a speech worthy of a British Minister. He (Mr. Gore) assured the House that he felt great interest in the welfare of Poland—a country so eminent in many respects, so distinguished for the public virtue and patriotism of her sons; and which in former times rendered such signal service to Europe and to the civilized world at large. He trusted that the remembrance of these services would never be effaced, and that both here and elsewhere, throughout the civilized world, every lover of liberty would feel himself bound to do what he could to favour the decendants of that high-minded, gallant, and honourable race. He trusted that we, at least, would show to Europe and to the world, that the spirit of freedom and liberty and respect for national independence, still glowed as warmly and as brightly within the breasts of Englishmen as it ever had done; and as he trusted it would ever do to the latest generations. He begged to add, that, although the hon. Member for Montrose might not get all the papers he wanted, still the agitation of the question in that House, and the expression of public sentiment which it elicited, could not fail to have a beneficial effect in favour of the unfortunate Poles.
 MR. M. GORE  said, he had received a letter from a Spanish merchant in London, which stated, that—
 "Spanish vessels enjoy advantages to an extent which amounts to an exclusive employ of the former. All goods exported from England to Spain and her Colonies, if in English bottoms or ships, are subjected to a duty of 25 per cent on their value; but transmitted in the vessels of Spain no duty attaches, and hence you will readily observe what sort of reciprocity subsists between us and Spain. This is an improper advantage, and it ought to be met by some countervailing regulation. It is true the wines of Spain are for the most part brought here in English vessels; but on inquiry into this seeming anomaly, I find it arises from a few ships of a peculiar size and despatch being used and built by us, and which enables us to effect the freight on cheaper terms than even the Spaniards can carry this particular traffic. England has so little attended to what is going on in Spanish shipping, that she permits without any retaliation ships to come from Old Spain and all her dependencies—from the Havannah especially—without reference to the excluding tariff of Spain; and one consequence is, that the commercial marine of Spain has increased to an amount of tonnage as large as in her days of prosperity."
 MR. M. GORE  said, there was one circumstance that had not yet been alluded to in the course of these discussions, and as it bore materially on the condition of Ireland, he should now allude to it. He referred to the fact of a very inferior species of potato having been cultivated in Ireland for some years past. This had been pointed out some years ago, and the opinion was then expressed, that it could not fail to lead to disease. He held in his hand a statement on this subject, which could not be suspected, as it had appeared in a railway report of 1838, and was never intended to be brought forward in a discussion of this nature. This passage stated that want of employment in Ireland had led to a great deterioration of the food of the peasantry—that the species of potato cultivated, was much inferior to what it had formerly been—and that the great tendency of such a state of things, was to lead to disease among the potato crops generally. This was in 1838, and the evil had gone on increasing since, so that there must needs be no great surprise at finding that there was a failure, and that disease should have succeeded. He wished to take that opportunity of pressing upon the Government the great importance of attending to the fisheries of Ireland, which, by giving employment to the population, and at the same time producing supplies of food, was a matter which ought to attract their most serious attention; the propriety of diffusing information among the people by providing them with instruction as to the different kinds of fishing tackle, &c., to be used, was also a matter deserving attention. He also hoped that measures would be be taken to promote, on an extensive scale, the drainage of land throughout Ireland. These were matters which he trusted the Government would not overlook, as the best means of giving employment to the population, and attaching them to the interest of this country, making Ireland in peace a source of wealth to England, and in war one of its strongest bulwarks.
 MR. P. M. STEWART  reminded the House that the Treaty of Vienna guaranteed the nationality of the whole of Poland as it stood before 1772. The nationality of Cracow depended upon another and a separate treaty. He thought that recent events ought to have taught them not to depend upon the forbearance of the three partitioning Powers. His noble Friend had
 838
 MR. M. MILNES  said, that no one was more unwilling than himself to occupy the time of the House. On a question like the present, however, individual Members of that House might have advantages which did not fall to the Members of the Government. Words might fall from a Member of the Government which might be considered as an improper interference with the affairs of foreign countries; but the observations of private Members could only be regarded as an indication of public opinion in the country, which must be looked on with respect. He believed that the principle of non-interference was becoming the favourite foreign policy in England. In this country, where there was no frontier but the ocean, there might be a pretence for letting the affairs of the Continent go on without interference on our part, when it was not likely to bring them to a successful issue. The question brought forward by his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose was a matter in which we were engaged, and a matter in which pledges had been put forth, and engagements had been entered into with the people of Europe. The Treaty of Vienna was accomplished by means of the blood and sacrifices of England, and but for the exertions of this country it was more than probable that the arrangements entered into by that Treaty never would have taken place, and matters would have appeared under a very different aspect. It was therefore not only a question of right of interference on our part, but also a question of justice. The arrangements in connexion with that Treaty had been brought about by England, and she was responsible
 821 ultima ratio regum, exequatur 822 823 "I call upon the inhabitants of Tarnow that they shall take possession of the turbulent spirits (meaning the proprietors). To do this they may arm themselves with their scythes and their hatchets. They shall deliver them up to the Government; and I am authorized for this immediately to give to those persons who shall so deliver them up a sufficient recompense in money." 824 "Faithful Gallicians: you have aroused yourselves for the maintenance of order and law; you have fought for the law, and you have destroyed the enemies of order." Gazette 825 826
 MR. M. MILNES  said, that all eleemosynary grants of this kind established very bad and corrupting principles. He perfectly concurred with the hon. Member for Montrose, that it was at once the duty of the English Legislature to place Ireland on a footing similr to England and Scotland in respect of its laws. He believed that if the landlords of Ireland were assisted by the Legislature in improving their estates, they would be conferring incalculable good upon the people of that country.
 794
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  did not think that the noble Lord was called upon to have made any apology for having dwelt at such length upon this subject. The question was one of very great importance; and it was desirable that it should be submitted to the consideration of that House. The noble Lord had truly stated that there was at this moment prevailing in Cuba a tariff which, by favouring Spanish ships, had well nigh excluded British vessels from the carrying trade with that island — both with reference to the importation of manufactures into Cuba, and with reference to the exportation of produce from Cuba. The noble Lord had been correct in his statement that this tariff had existed for some time; but recent changes which had taken place in that tariff, and which had effect from the 1st of March in the present year, had in some respects made its operation more favourable to British interests, while in others it had tended to mitigate it. For instance, there had been a change in the tonnage duties; but that change had
 806 807
 MR. WAKLEY  said, that after what they had heard in Parliament on this subject, the public were satisfied that the amount of punishment would not be much for the future. It was now known that a few lashes might be sentence of death. ["No, no!"] It had been so. It was known to have occurred at Woolwich; and he asserted it as his deliberate conviction, that more men had perished from the effects of the lash than from the halter. It was essential that there should be the most strict regulations as to the mode in which it was inflicted. While he was on this subject, he would refer to the remarks made by a noble Lord in reference to the late case at Hounslow. The noble Lord had felt it consistent with his duty to denounce the proceedings at the inquest—to denounce them as unjust. The inference that would be drawn from the remarks of the noble Lord was, that the jury were perjured. The noble Lord, knowing nothing of the case except from the reports, felt it to be his duty to denounce the conduct of the person presiding at the inquiry—an individual who could have no motive to act otherwise than rightly; and to denounce the jurors, who, as the noble Lord inferred, had returned a verdict not consistent with their oaths. It was not for him to say more than to express his deep regret that any noble Lord should have felt it to be his duty, with his incomplete and very imperfect knowledge of the facts, to denounce one of the public tribunals of the country. He would not say more than to intimate to the noble Lord, that, if he believed there was anything wrong, any dishonourable or unjust practices at that inquiry, he ought to move for a Committee of the House of Lords to inquire into the circumstances; and not give an opinion on the loose information he had received. He believed that no one had a right to complain of the conduct of the jury in that inquiry.
 MR. WYSE  was rejoiced to hear such language, so fitted to a Minister of the Crown, and to the Parliament of England, on an occasion like the present, as that which had just fallen from the noble Lord. He hoped his noble Friend was right in his charitable supposition that the Austrian Government was not cognizant of the atrocities which had been committed in Gallicia: it was the only palliation which could be offered, but it was not enough: what should we henceforth think of the pretensions of Austria to superior vigilance—what should we think of the vigilance of any Government—to whom such horrors and designs in the heart of its States should or could be unknown? It was the policy of the British Government not unnecessarily or forcibly to interfere in the interior government of other countries; but at the same time, it well knew the moral influence of public opinion on all Governments—it well knew how that influence was increased when its expression was free, and that in no assembly on earth was it likely to be more so than in that of the House of Commons. He hoped that this country would long preserve its claim so to think and speak of other countries; and in exercising fearlessly such high duty, he (Mr. Wyse) believed that they were not only maintaining their own position at the head of the constitutional Governments, but benefiting other countries who had a very different constitution from their own. This friendly public remonstrance would not be without its use. It was for the interest of Austria to listen to it; it was for her interest to hear how men judged her conduct beyond the precincts of her Court; what they thought and spoke abroad as well as at home. True, the outbreak and massacres had in some degree subsided; but what had happened once, might, if not prevented by some such expression of opinion
 837
 SIR C. NAPIER  to the hon. Member for Hertford: "Hand me that paper." [Mr. COWPER: I cannot.] The gallant Officer proceeded to say, he thought it rather extraordinary for the hon. Member for Hertford to bring forward a printed plan, and not allow him to look at it. It was quite true he knew something of the plan, having read it elsewhere, but he might have made some mistake in it. It was rather odd that the hon. Member would not give it to him. [Captain PECHELL: Report progress.] No, he would not report progress, he was too much interested in the question to do so. He had frequently, ever since he had sat in that House, brought the subject before them, and no one had ever supported him; but at last it was taken up by the Admiralty, and last year the Secretary of the Admiralty stated that the time was come for a sufficient retirement in the navy. The late Government brought forward their retirement. It was not so secret as this. Sir G. Cockburn was asked if it were definite or not, and said it was not so; and
 840 l. l., s. s. d. s. d. l. s. l. 841 l. l. l. l. l. l., l. 842
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  asked the First Lord of the Treasury what provision had been or was intended to be made for the widow and family of the late General Sir Robert Sale?
 SIR F. TRENCH  said, the committee felt themselves bound to adhere to their former deeision, and had determined, if not permitted to put it into execution, to absolve themselves from any responsibility whatever. The sub-committee found it very difficult to know how to act. All kinds of suggestions had been made to them by various persons; but he wished the House to bear in mind that the subcommittee had been all along influenced by a most anxious desire to meet the wishes of Her Majesty and of the Government, but had felt themselves compelled to fulfil their engagements to the public. They were equally convinced that the arch was the only fit place for the statue. The statue was made for the arch, not one-half of the subscriptions having been received till the arch had been selected as the place for the statue. He was convinced that the statue in that position on the arch would be the finest object ever exhibited; and he begged to return his thanks to Her Majesty and to the Government for having done them justice—and but justice—in giving them an opportunity of ascertaining the opinion of the public.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  wished to know if officers who had good-service pensions were to be permitted to retain those good-service pensions after becoming admirals, under the proposed arrangement.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  said, the House
 844 s. d.
 SIR J. C. HOBHOUSE : I quite agree with my hon. Friend that it is for the honour of the country—and not only for the honour of the country, but for the very safety of the country, that such a statement should be contradicted; and I am most happy to say, therefore, that there is not one word of truth in it—that there is not the slightest foundation for it whatever. My hon. Friend very kindly put the paper into my hands in which the statement appeared, and I find that it contains the most monstrous contradictious. So far from any atrocity of the kind having been perpetrated, the surgeons of the British army were actively engaged in taking care of the wounded Sikhs; and all the time they could devote to that purpose was so employed by them, to the great astonishment of the Sikhs, who had never seen such an instance of humanity before.
 CAPTAIN M. F. BERKELEY  said, that no man could receive punishment on board a man of war without an inquiry, not in the cabin of the ship, but publicly and openly; and that no officer could inflict punishment without making a return of the punishment and all the attendant circumstances to the Board of Admiralty, who made a most close and searching investigation into each case, in order to prevent the infliction of improper punishment. Whenever this subject came before the House, he should feel it to be his duty—disregarding all popular outcry—to state the real facts of the case, and to show the House that it would be utterly impossible to carry on the discipline of a ship if they deprived the naval officers of the power of inflicting punishment. Let them put whatever restrictions they pleased on them, and on the exercise of the punishment; but he boldly and fearlessly
 760
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  was sorry the hon. Member disapproved of his conduct; but, with the permission of the House, he would briefly state how the case was. Since the last discussion took place on this subject, he could not conceal that he had used every means in his power to bring the matter to an issue, in accordance with the wishes of the House, of his hon. Friend, and the public; but the sub-committee had not thought themselves at liberty to accede to any offer of sites which had been made to them, and still placed reliance on the permission which had been formerly given them to place the statue on the top of the arch. Under those circumstances he had thought it the duty of the Government to accede to a proposal of the sub-committee to place the statue on the arch, on the express condition that if, after a short interval of time, it should not be approved of by the Government, who of course would take the advice of competent persons on the matter, the committee would replace
 757
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The subject which has been submitted to the consideration
 808 809 810
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there was a very general concurrence upon one point, and that was, that it would be exceedingly desirable, without loss of time, to constitute a railway department, and to transfer to that department the powers and functions which were at present exercised by the Board of Trade. He was glad to find that the noble Lord (Lord G. Somerset) also concurred in that view. The Report of the Committee
 847
 The EARL of LINCOLN  doubted the
 848
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained. He was anxious that the first Resolution should pass; but he should abstain from introducing any measure upon the subject unless he was fortified by a Resolution of the Houses of Parliament. If the House of Lords and the House of Commons concurred in opinion, then he conceived that he should be justified in introducing a Bill even at this late period of the Session. What he held was, that to the board proposed to be constituted should be transferred in the first instance all the duties which were now performed by the Railway Department of the Board of Trade; and that it should include the greater portion of the existing staff of that
 849
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  must be allowed to correct the hon. Baronet as to what he said was the practice that had existed in former times. As the hon. Baronet had referred to the opinion of the former Attorney General, perhaps he might be allowed to say that, after mature consideration, and after communication with several legal friends in whom he had great confidence, he had come to the opinion, for which he was responsible, and which the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. C. Hobhouse) had referred to. But he had not given that opinion to the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. C. Hobhouse) until he had been fortified in his own opinion by the opinion of the present Lord Chief Baron; and that opinion had met with the entire concurrence of the present Lord Chancellor, with the entire concurrence of the late Lord Chancellor, and, he believed, with the entire concurrence of the late Attorney General. Sir W. Follett and Sir Frederick Pollock were undoubtedly quite right in saying that the Queen might now appoint, because the mere exercise of the pleasure of the Crown on making the new appointment vacated the former one; by that very act, and at that instant, was revoked the authority of the letters patent by which Sir E. Ryan was appointed. With respect to the practice the hon. Baronet (Sir J. W. Hogg) asked, why the Colonial Office did not draw up the patent according to the old practice? He (the Attorney General) had no right to know what was the reason; but he thought the Colonial Office was justified in point of law. From the earliest times it had been held—and if the hon. Baronet would look into Comyn's  Digest, 861
 MR. BERNAL  defended the appointment of Mr. Pollock, and remarked that no particular blame was, in his opinion, attachable to the Government for passing over Sir E. Perry; for if the hon. Member for Montrose would look to Westminster Hall, he would see that no puisne Judge
 864
 MR. BERNAL  begged to call the attention of Her Majesty's Government to the necessity which existed for providing experienced seamen for the British navy. He had no doubt that, under the care of his noble and right hon. Friends in office, the country would be supplied with as fine a navy as ever swam the seas, and that, so far as the  matériel matériel, personnel, 874
 CAPTAIN BERKELEY  had taken almost the same views as the hon. Gentleman had now expressed. He (Captain Berkeley) had always thought and said that it was perfectly useless for this country to possess a fine fleet, if they did not take measures for manning it efficiently. Before he held office at the Admiralty, he had always maintained that sufficient attention had not been paid to the manning of our ships of war; and now that he was in office, he would do all in his power, in conjunction with the noble Earl at the head of the Admiralty, to provide an ample supply of efficient seamen, who might be available for the naval service. He was happy to say, that during the short time he (Captain Berkeley) had been at the Admiralty, a large body of able and efficient men had joined Her Majesty's navy, and that the enlistments were rather increasing than decreasing. He hoped before the next Session to be prepared to submit a plan to the Government which would place at their disposal a body of thorough seamen, who within forty-eight hours would be available at Portsmouth or Plymouth in sufficient numbers to man a fleet.
 MR. WILLIAMS  considered the matter to which the hon. Member for Weymouth had directed attention, was one of very great importance. The present system of manning the navy was very inefficient, and no inducements were held out to the men to remain in the service. He was informed that many of the men who had recently been discharged from the  Excellent
 ADMIRAL DUNDAS  most positively contradicted the report that had gone abroad that some of the men discharged from the  Excellent
 MR. COWPER  considered the remarks of the hon. Member for Weymouth (Mr. Bernal) very important. The maritime defence of the country involved not only its safety but its very existence; and this country could not expect to maintain the position she did in the world unless she
 875
 The EARL OF LINCOLN  agreed that it was most desirable the attention of the House should not be diverted from the subject before them. As regarded the allegation of the House not having been taken by surprise, he could answer for himself and many hon. Friends near him, that they had most certainly been taken by surprise. He contended that the matter had been brought before the House in a most unfair manner, when there was not a single Member of the late Government in town who was cognizant of the facts, and when there had not even been the opportunity for those who were acquainted with the circumstances to instruct their friends in town. They had no right whatever to expect that the matter would have been brought forward. It was certainly the practice when Papers were moved for, that a speech should be made; but the noble Lord had not given notice of his intention to move for Papers, and had put his notice in a form which could not possibly lead any one to suppose that he intended to bring forward the gravest charges against individuals. The noble Lord's notice was,
 868 869
 MR. S. WORTLEY  said, the noble Lord's inquiry had given rise to a very important matter. It amounted to this, that no appointment of a judicial officer in India had taken place without there being a long interval in which the predecessor acted without any authority; and in Bombay, where there were but two Judges of the Supreme Court, there must be the greatest inconvenience in consequence. He was glad, therefore, that the error was about to be remedied. He perfectly agreed with the learned Attorney General; indeed, no lawyer could doubt it, that a judicial office could not be granted in reversion; but he was not so sure that a judicial office might not be appointed too, the appointment being made to take effect at a future day; and he was not clear that such an appointment, to take effect at a future day, might not be made at a time when the office was full. That, he thought, would not be an appointment in reversion, because a reversion was dependent on the tenure or seizing of an occupant; and it would not be a grant in reversion, because it would take effect at a specific certain day when the office would be vacant. It was but justice to Mr. D. Pollock and Mr. Phillips to say, that better appointments for the benefit of the public could not have been made. He must also add, that he knew that for some time previous to his appointment Mr. D. Pollock had been a candidate for judicial office in India; and, therefore, it was not correct to say, as the noble Lord had done, that he was appointed without solicitation on his part. Then, again, the statement that there was a pre-arrangement that Mr. Phillips should leave Liverpool in order to make a vacancy for Mr. Perry, was not correct; and he was sorry to see that in this, as in so many other cases, the noble Lord seemed to think that public officers must always act from base and unworthy motives. The noble Lord seemed to think that those who had been brought up in admiration of the principles of Mr. Canning—not having, with the noble Lord, taken the earliest opportunity of joining themselves
 862
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said, that in rising on Friday last to address the House, it was his duty to make some observations on the practical legislation of hon. Gentlemen opposite; yesterday it was his duty to bring before the House the case of a  laches 850 l. l. l. 851 l. l. 852 853 854
 LORD G. SOMERSET  said, that to ask the House of Commons to pass resolutions of this sort, which would have the effect of altering the whole system of railways, was rather a strong measure to introduce at this late period of the Session; though he approved of the constitution of a separate and distinct railway department.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that Gentlemen on the other side had not been taken more by surprise in this matter than many others. It was only by an accident that he had been present on the occasion. He was at a loss to understand, from the statement of the noble Lord, what were the grounds on which the late Ministers complained of being taken by surprise on this occasion, as they always did when any act of their Administration was challenged. He understood that it was the form of the notice given by the noble Lord the Member for Lynn, as it appeared on the Paper, that was the foundation for their allegation of being taken by surprise. His noble Friend the Member for Lynn had given notice that he was going, not to make a Motion, but to ask a question. Now, it was the ordinary practice in that House, when a Member was in opposition to Government, that he should, without intending to divide the House, give notice of a Motion for Papers, in order to raise a discussion, and give the opportunity for the expression of opinions impugning the policy of the Government. That was not the feeling of his noble Friend the Member for Lynn. Whatever other feelings might influence him, no one could suppose him animated by hostility to the existing Government. Therefore, he had not given his notice in the form which was usual when a Member was in hostility to the Ministry. His noble Friend had given notice of his intention to ask a question, and he was to ask for the production of correspondence; but under what circumstances? It was to be moved upon the Order of the Day, so as to give every hon. Member an opportunity of expressing his opinions. [The Earl of LINCOLN: It was not upon the Order of the Day.] He begged the noble Lord's pardon. On the Order of the Day there was a series of notices, and one of them was by Lord G. Bentinck, in these terms. The hon. Member here read the notice. It was upon the Order of the Day that they were now speaking; and he asked any hon. Member, to whatever party he might belong, whether this could be supposed to be an ordinary question, to receive a mere official answer, and one upon which every body was to be stopped from expressing his sentiments? It would have been in every sense most unfair to have asked a question of this kind, and not have given the opportunity for
 870 in extremis. 871 872 873
 MR. GOULBURN  did not rise to complain of the noble Lord for bringing forward this subject. So far as any error might have taken place respecting the appointment of Judges, the House must be very much obliged to any hon. Member for pointing out defects of so serious a nature in the practice which had uniformly prevailed, and for affording the opportunity of correcting them. He did not pretend to any legal knowledge on the subject; but instead of attributing the fault of this appointment—made previous to the resignation of the present Judge, and thereby vacating the existing appointment, and perhaps rendering invalid judicial acts—to the Government of the day, he (Mr. Goulburn) would lay it rather at the door of Parliament, which gave to the Crown the power of superseding by warrant in this country a Chief Justice administering the law in India. For it must be obvious that if the law as now laid down was correct, and the Crown exercised the power of supersession, it did incur the enormous difficulty of vitiating all the acts of the person exercising judicial authority in India. That Government had taken the right course in this matter, no man could doubt; if an error existed, it was incumbent on them to correct it; and even if a doubt existed, to refer to the highest legal authorities, in order that it might be removed. What he complained of in the noble Lord was, that without a notice—for the intimation given by the noble Lord, from which no man could presume that a discussion would arise, was equivalent to no notice at all—the noble Lord should take upon himself to apply to a man as honourable as himself such phrases as "nefarious corruption" and "flagitious profligacy." The noble Lord had never been in office, and therefore could not jndge of the motives which influenced official men; but if he were to judge of the noble Lord's feelings from the terms he applied to those on whom such responsibilities devolved, he for one did not envy feelings which led the noble Lord, without adequate information as to facts, or any knowledge but common rumour, to excite unjust suspicions against a man as upright and honourable as any who lived. That the noble Lord should suppose his noble Friend the late President of the Board of Control (the Earl of Ripon), to be so corrupt that for an antecedent period he should have been negotiating
 865
 MR. MORRISON  rose to move that the House do confirm the Resolutions reported from the Select Committee on Railways. The necessity for adopting these Resolutions arose from the fact that railways were monopolies, and that the Government should have some control over them. All plans for railways ought to be laid before the Government, and receive its sanction before the lines were formed. He presumed that there would be no objection to the recommendations contained in the Report of the Committee. The hon.
 846 "That it is the opinion of this House, that it is expedient that a Department of the Executive Government, so constituted as to obtain Public confidence, be established for the Superintendence of Railway business."
 MR. HENLEY  was of opinion, that the present time was a most opportune period to enter generally on the subject of patronage, and particularly as regarded judicial appointments, there being a Bill before the House which, if it became law, would confer great patronage in certain quarters. In reference to what had been observed respecting Mr. D. Pollock, he (Mr. Henley) could not gather from anything advanced by the noble Lord the Member for Lynn, that he said anything about the fitness or the unfitness for office of that gentleman; all he said upon the subject was, that Mr. David Pollock was about sixty-five years of age. The noble Lord did not say one word in disparagement of him, so that all that had been advanced about the fitness or the unfitness of Mr. David Pollock had
 866 867 "To ask the President of the Board of Control for an explanation of the circumstances under which the late appointment of Mr. David Pollock to the office of Chief Justice of Bombay was made, and for the correspondence relating there to"—
 MR. HUME  wished to explain, by saying that in designating the error an official lie, perhaps it was a wrong word—he did not attribute anything to Mr. Gladstone. But had the department set forth the facts truly, they would not have effected their object, and therefore they set forth the facts untruly.
 MR. HUME  did not think that the crimination which the hon. and learned Gentleman had just made against the noble Lord had anything to do with the statement before the House. If this was not a job, it was very like one. It seemed to him a very singular proceeding, and, in his opinion, a very important matter for Sir H. Roper. But there was another point. He held in his hand a document which contained a downright lie. Yes, in this document William Ewart Gladstone certifies to a downright lie. ["Hear!"] Well, an error, a mistake, if you like; but it is here certified, that Sir H. Roper having resigned his situation, and so on. Now, that is a lie; or, if not a downright lie, it is a mistake, I suppose; for Sir H. Roper had not resigned when this document was written. [The Earl of LINCOLN: It is the ordinary official form.] Why should official forms lie in this manner? If a public document to be laid before Her Majesty might contain statements that were not true respecting individuals, who in this country could be safe? Sir H. Roper, whom he had not the pleasure of being acquainted with, gave timely notice to the Government, that he wished to resign his seat. Last February, he said, he proposed to resign from the 2nd of November following; therefore the statement in this document, which was dated in July, was not correct, because it represented
 863 l. l. l.
 MR. HUME  said, that the Resolutions adopted by the Select Committee were absolutely necessary for the protection of the public, and he highly approved of them.
 SIR G. GREY : Having been upon the Committee which adopted the Resolutions referred to by the hon. Gentleman, the House might expect that he should give some opinion upon the subject. With regard to the first Resolution which had just been moved by his hon. Friend, he could not offer the slightest objection to that, inasmuch as it embodied the opinion of three Committees of this House, and of one Committee of the House of Lords. But with regard to the specific duties to be imposed on the department to be hereafter created, he thought it would be inexpedient to fetter the House at this time with any particular recommendations. He would suggest that the best course would be to adopt the first Resolution, and perhaps the ninth Resolution also; and if these two met with the sanction of the House, then it might be desirable that a Bill should be prepared upon the subject. His right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had given his attention to the question, and it was intended by him to present such a Bill to the House before it rose for the Session; and his right hon. Friend would state the nature of the duties which he proposed that the board to be constituted should have to perform.
 SIR J. W. HOGG  said, with the matters to which the noble Lord had directed their attention, the East India Company had nothing whatever to do directly or indirectly. With the recall or the appointment of a Judge, they had no more to do than the noble Lord himself. But he thought it right to say that having occasion to communicate with Lord Ripon, as Chairman of the Board of Directors, on some matters of business, Lord Ripon, so far as his memory served him, told him in the month of May that he had received the resignation of the Chief Justice of Bombay, who wished not to resign immediately, but from November, when he would be entitled to a pension. Now, that was not unusual; but, on the contrary, the constant and universal practice. Before the introduction of steam, it was the invariable rule that all Judges, puisne and chief, gave a year's notice of their intention to resign, in order that another new Judge might arrive before the departure of the one retiring: this was a universal occurrence, and not merely accidental. [Sir J. HOBHOUSE: That is a mistake.] So far as his experience went, he never knew a case otherwise. He never knew the case of a single Judge who did not send notice to the Government of his intention to resign. But he begged to call the attention of the President of the Board of Control to the course adopted on the present occasion. He knew nothing of the matter personally, and was not aware of the exact particulars till they were stated
 858 "Whether it is lawful for Her Majesty now to appoint a person, duly qualified according to the Charter, to be Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Judicature of Fort William in Bengal?"
 SIR J. C. HOBHOUSE : In answer to the appeal of my noble Friend, I think the best thing I can do is to state to him and to the House exactly the facts of the case, leaving it to the House to make its own decision on that statement. Very shortly after I came to the Board of Control, my attention was directed to the circumstances of the appointment of Mr. D. Pollock to the Chief Justiceship of Bombay,
 855 l l. l. 856 coram non judice. 857
 MR. PIGOTT  said, this Bill did not alter the law as it at present stood, under the Constabulary Act, by which the number of the constabulary force to be permanently employed in every county was fixed; so that beyond a certain maximum the Lord Lieutenant could not go. But by the existing law, the number of the force employed in any county might be increased temporarily in the following manner. On the representation of two or more magistrates met at sessions for the purpose, the Lord Lieutenant might increase the number of constabulary in any district. That provision of the law was continued in the present Bill. The Lord Lieutenant could not increase the police force in any district, without such a representation being made to him. But besides that, the Lord Lieutenant had a power of augmenting the number of the constabulary in a district without the consent of the magistrates, to the extent of fifty men; but it was understood that any such augmentation was to be altogether of a temporary kind, and only to continue while the district remained disturbed. The present Bill altered that arrangement, because it might happen that fifty additional men might not be a sufficient number to effect the purpose required. He would remind the House that in the late discussions on what was called the Coercion Bill, it had been alleged that the county of Leitrim was quieted by an extraordinary application of the military and police forces; and those who opposed the Bill argued, and as he thought truly, that by similar means, namely, an augmentation of the forces in the district, and proper patrolling, similar results would be accomplished in the other disturbed districts
 879
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I find it extremely difficult to make a proper reply to the hon. and gallant Officer who has just sat down; for it is impossible to discuss adequately and properly all the various claims of the officers and men of our army and navy, and to point out in detail how their services ought to be rewarded. I think that the House acts wisely and consistently when, in voting sums for the maintenance of the army and navy, it leaves the distribution of those sums to the advisers of the Crown and the Naval and Military Departments. With respect to the elaborate comparison made by the hon. and gallant Officer between the army and navy, I must say I think he has underrated the advantages enjoyed by the officers of the army. We had a Committee to inquire into the subject; and it appeared, in relation to the command of regiments, that we have 98 regiments of infantry, and 26 of cavalry; and that officers in the army enjoy, in consequence, advantages which are not shared by officers in the navy—that, in fact, they have rewards to which there are no similar rewards in the navy. The hon. and gallant Member quoted the opinion of the Duke of Wellington on the subject of purchase. The Duke of Wellington, by an elaborate and detailed expression of opinion, made out a case for the maintenance of the present system of purchases in our army. I believe, however, if the system of purchase in the army were now, instead of being so long established, introduced for the first time, the arguments against purchase might preponderate; but, existing as it does, and conferring, according to the opinion of the Duke of Wellington, advantages both upon the State and the Army, I think it ought not to be lightly relinquished at an enormous expense. The present system of purchase affords to many old officers the means of obtaining certain sums by the sale of their commissions to younger officers, who thus fill their places, and are placed in a position, after the lapse of some years, to obtain similar sums if they wish to dispose of their commissions. The hon. and gallant Member proposes that there should be some rewards offered to
 885 886
 COLONEL REID  agreed most cordially in every word that had fallen from the hon. Member for Westminster; and he begged to tender the hon. and gallant Member his sincere thanks for the zealous way in which he had espoused the cause of the army. The hon. Member for Montrose had stated that the State derived no benefit from the purchase of commissions. He maintained that it did. A short time ago, for instance, he, after being thirty years in the army, and having no chance of seeing foreign service, determined to retire upon full pay. He applied, and was told he could do so, provided he paid the whole amount of a full-pay commission. Well, he paid 4,500 l., l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , pursuant to the notice which he had given, rose to move for leave to introduce a Bill to enable Her Majesty to appoint a Railway Board. The subject was one which had been pressed on Her Majesty's Government by both Houses of Parliament. The Committee of the House of Lords which sat on railways had come to a resolution urging the appointment of such a Board; and the House of Commons had lately adopted a similar resolution. Fortified, therefore, with these resolutions, Her Majesty's Government had determined to come to Parliament and ask the House to pass a Bill which would carry into effect the object which those resolutions contemplated. He was well aware that at this period of the Session such a Bill could only be carried by the common consent of the whole House; but it was in reliance upon that common consent that the Government proposed to introduce this Bill. The Bill was very short in itself, and he would briefly state its main provisions. The Government proposed that a Board should be constituted, consisting of not more than five Commissioners, one of whom should be the president. It was proposed that the president of the Board should be paid for his services, and that he should be a Member of one of the two Houses of Parliament. It was also proposed that he should be connected with the Government so far as to be removable on any change of Administration. The other Commissioners were to be made up of two paid members and two unpaid members of the Board. The two paid Commissioners would not have seats in Parliament; and the object in appointing two unpaid members of the Board was, that there should be at least one Commissioner in either House of Parliament, to answer any questions that might be put with respect to the acts of the Board. The two unpaid members of the Commission would also be members of the Government, of course receiving emolument in that capacity, but not as members of the Railway Board. The result, therefore, would be, that in both Houses of Parliament there
 892
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that subject had not been considered by the Government, but it would be, and an answer would be given in the next stage of the Bill. The Government only proposed now that which the whole
 893
 MR. F. MAULE  agreed with his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) that it was hard to call on the Government to give a specific answer to a question which involved, in the first place, a very considerable outlay; and, secondly, the substitution of a new system for the present system of promotions and rewards in the army. His hon. and gallant Friend (Sir De Lacy Evans) had designated the system of purchase as most oppressive. Although in some respects he might agree with his hon. and gallant Friend, still he could not concur in
 890
 CAPTAIN CARNEGIE  thought the gallant Officer had completely succeeded in making out a case. The same question had been mooted in the House of Commons two and a half years ago. He (Captain Carnegie) was then absent, and had no opportunity of discussing the subject; but, on referring to the report of the debate which then took place, he found that the chief opponent of the proposal then made was Sir H. Hardinge—now very justly created Viscount Hardinge; but on that occasion, the gallant Officer could have little expected that in so short a period he should have himself to distribute medals to some of the very officers to whom he then denied them, for their distinguished services at the battles of Meanee, Aliwal, and Sobraon. He did not consider the paucity of their numbers, or the distance of time, any reason for withholding these medals still.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said: I beg leave to ask the indulgence of the House whilst I make an explanation to the House which is very painful to myself. It will be in the recollection, Sir, of the House, that in the course of the observations which I made yesterday, I was guilty of insinuating that in the job of which I was treating, in addition to all that had been done as regards the appointment to the office of Chief Justice of Bombay, a barter of patronage had taken place between Lord Lyndhurst and my Lord Ripon, Sir, I
 876 Clergy List,
 CAPTAIN LAYARD  stated, without the fear of contradiction, that there was no service in England so ill requited as the army, and that without money or interest no amount of industry, ability, or assiduity could, taking the average of men, advance them in their profession. This was a question which had been too long neglected; but he hoped it would receive more attention in future. He feared that, at present, the system of purchasing commissions could not be done away with, because there was so much money invested in that way, and he suspected the House was not prepared to agree to grant compensation for that sum. But the system was undoubtedly a very bad one. On the subject of granting medals to the old veterans of Trafalgar and the Peninsula, he confessed he felt very deeply. He was delighted to hear the speech of the gallant officer opposito (Captain Carnegie), who had referred to Sir H. Hardinge, an officer for whom he (Captain Layard) entertained great respect, and he never felt so sorry as when he heard him oppose the proposition of giving medals to the old soldiers in question; but when that officer had himself received pensions and rewards from that House, and when he had found that, in India, the best and most proper way of rewarding the men whom he there commanded was by distributing medals against them, he confessed it did seem to him astonishing that those who had performed far more gallant deeds than the men who had been thus rewarded in India, should be refused a similar honour. He had seen last week, a
 888 "Thus soldiers medals are won—more by discipline than by any extraordinary efforts of individual courage. To reward this obedience medals are bestowed, so that every man who wears this honoured badge is known to the world as one who, in the midst of the noise, the danger, and the confusion of battle, had obeyed his orders and performed the three great duties of a soldier—first, not to fire without orders; next, when he does fire, to level low, so as to make sure of striking down an enemy; thirdly, to keep his ranks and dress upon his colours, The medal tells the world that he has bravely done these things, and no man can walk with one of these medals on his breast without feeling the conscious pride of an intrepid soldier."
 MR. LABOUCHERE  moved the Second
 877
 MR. MORRISON  thought there ought to be something more than the mere transference of the present powers of the Board of Trade to the Commissioners, to do any amount of good. He wished to know if the proposed Board would have the power to send for papers and records, because without this, little good could be done.
 MR. HUME  challenged the hon. and gallant Officer to bring this question before the House next Session in such a shape as would enable him (Mr. Hume) to bring forward detailed arithmetical statements respecting it, and he would engage to show that the expense for officers in the British army was threefold that of the officers of the French army; in fact, no State of Europe had to pay so heavy a charge for officers of the army as England. He believed we had more generals in England, with our 100,000 men, than they had in France with their 400,000 men. The principle of purchase was most objectionable, as enabling interest to gain rank over merit. He had been long enough with the army to have seen the ill-effects produced, when meritorious officers of experience found themselves superseded by more boys, as happened every day. If merit were more recognized, a class of officers would be obtained who would be more devoted to their duties and to the service.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  had to thank the right hon. Gentleman for his explanation. He perfectly recollected that when the Corn Bill had been introduced, there was a pledge that the counties of Ireland should be relieved from the expense of the constabulary force in the event of that Bill passing. It was, he thought, quite right that that engagement should be carried out, as Parliament was pledged to it; but at the same time he must say, that a great constitutional principle was involved in the Bill, to which the right hon. Gentleman had not at all alluded. The right hon. Gentleman said, that the reserved force was to be increased by 200 men; but he lost sight of the provision by which, in a district declared to be disturbed, the Lord Lieutenant should have a power to increase the police force to any extent that he should think proper. The right hon. Gentleman appeared not to have read his own Bill. It was not 200
 878
 SIR W. VERNER  regretted to perceive that the welfare of the army excited so little interest, that on a question of this importance there should not be twenty Members present. The gallant officer opposite (Sir D. L. Evans) was entitled to the thanks of the army for the manner in which he had brought their services under the notice of the House. He knew that the officers who had served in the Peninsula felt very much that they had nothing to show for their long services. He had heard that at one time it had been intended to give them medals, but it was said the die had been
 889
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  rose to propose the Motion relative to rewards for the army of which he had given notice. In bringing forward this Motion, he believed he was justified in saying that the officers of the army were less considered and less fairly rewarded than officers in any other department of the State. That circumstance, coupled with the fact, that some years had now elapsed since any statement on behalf of the officers of the army had been made to the House, induced him at the present moment to press the subject upon the attention of the Government. The claims of the army were often met in that House in a very summary manner; the answer being, that the expenses of the army, navy, and ordnance departments were already so great, that nothing more could be done for that particular branch of the service. He wished the House to remember, however, that not less than 5,000,000 l. personnel 880 "And doubtless an equal degree of inefficiency would have been shown in the army, if the statements had contained, as those from the Admiralty do, one general table of all ranks, either in full pay or in retirement, or who had at any time belonged to the service." "Perhaps it may not be generally known that the promotion of the army without purchase, which is the only promotion that affects the public purse, is much less than it is in the navy. In 1831, one major was promoted to be lieutenant-colonel, while seven commanders were made post-captains; seven captains of the army obtained majorities, and fourteen naval lieutenants were made commanders." l. l. l. 
 
 195 lieutenant-colonels £41,155 a year 
 281 majors 48,754 a year 
 In all £89,909 a year 
 as against 237,668 l. 
 52 captains £10,110 a year 
 292 commanders 40,067 a year 
 Altogether £80,177 a year 
 whilst against that, in the army were— 
 20 lieutenant-colonels £6,205 a year 
 20 majors 5,840 a year 
 20 lieutenant-colonels, 100 l. 2,000 a year 
 £14,045 881 l. l. l. l. l., 882 l. "Whilst the salaries and emoluments of most branches of the civil service have considerably increased since 1792, those of the superior officers of the army are, with few exceptions, the same as they were a century ago." "The detailed effect of this purchase of commissions upon the payment of all officers for their service, will be shown presently. It is obvious that in calculating the remuneration which any officer receives for his service, the amount of the interest which he loses upon the sum paid as the price of his commission must be taken into the account—it is a direct deduction upon the pay of the officer. … This fact must never be lost sight of; and it will be of great importance in the comparison between the amount of the pay and allowances of the officers of the British army, and those of foreign armies, and those of the corresponding ranks of the British navy." 883 "In point of fact (his Grace says) the promotion of the officers of the army by purchase is-a saving of expense to the public, and highly beneficial to the service, although it falls severely upon individuals (on the officers). … The permission to sell their commissions to younger, more active, healthy, and energetic, and better qualified men, relieves the service from a burden, at the same time that it throws none upon the State in the shape of remuneration, reward, or provision for men worn out by the length and arduous nature of the services required from all British officers." "On the other hand, an examination of the detailed operation of the system of promotion by purchase, or the remuneration intended to be given by the public to the officers of the army for their service, will show that those who purchase their commissions, which are certainly three-fourths of the whole number, receive but little for their service besides the honour of serving the King." "This officer (the Duke says) has but little hope of promotion, unless he can purchase it, nor of rest nor relief from his exertions, if he should obtain it, as long as he has health and strength to serve. Surely (adds his Grace), men with such qualities, and so employed, cannot be allowed to believe the Legislature is unmindful of services." "That this House will, on Wednesday next, resolve itself into a Committee, to consider of an humble Address to be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to order that some adequate measure of relief may be awarded to the old War Officers of the Army of various ranks, towards remedying the retardment of promotion in late years, and the consequent increasing privation, in advanced age, of professional
 884
 SIR DE LACY EVANS , in reply, said that in bringing forward his Motion, it had not been his intention to press the House to come to a vote upon the question of presenting an address to Her Majesty, but simply to elicit the opinions of the Government on the subject; and he must say that the speech of the noble Lord at the head of the Government would not be satisfactory to the
 891
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  hoped, that next Session, the House would take into consideration the questions of purchasing commissions, and the favouritism at the Horse Guards. Meantime, he thanked the gallant Officer, the Member for Westminster, for the honest and zealous intention he had shown to benefit the neglected condition of those who had rendered such distinguished services to the country.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  moved the Third Reading of the Customs Duties Bill.
 MR. M. SUTTON  said, that the late Government had hesitated with respect to taking into their hands appointments which would give so large an amount of patronage to the Government of the day. He admitted the general abstract principle that the patronage in such cases should be placed in the hands of the Crown; but the practical difficulty in this case lay in the circumstance of so great a number of appointments to be made at once; and he therefore thought that, in this particular case, there was some danger in placing the patronage in the Crown. According to the plan of the late Government, the appointments in the first instance were placed in the hands of the lieutenants of counties, the Government reserving to itself the right of filling up vacancies as they subsequently occurred. To the change now introduced in the Bill he objected, as also to the alteration in that provision of the Bill which declared that the judges of existing courts should be first judges in the new courts. He must say that on the questions of patronage and compensation, he much preferred the Bill as it had been brought in by the late Government. However, he did not feel justified in impeding its progress, as he believed it was earnestly sought for by the country.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it seemed to him the questions of patronage and compensation would be better argued upon the clauses relating to them respectively. But in reference to what had fallen from the noble Lord and the hon. Gentleman who had spoken last he
 917
 MR. H. BERKELEY  observed, that this measure was looked upon with the deepest interest throughout the country. From communications he had received from Bath as well as from Bristol, he learned that the measure was regarded as perfectly satisfactory.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the office of clerks of the courts to be created by the Bill had been set aside exclusively for attorneys. But as to their appointment to judgeships, he asked how it would be possible for the Lord Chancellor to judge of the fitness of any solicitor or
 922
 LORD J. RUSSELL  considered that there were two ways of obtaining good judges. One was by giving very considerable salaries, and, as in Westminster-hall, separating them altogether from practice at the bar, to be wholly devoted to judicial questions in every kind of form. There was another mode in regard to less important judicial functions and more limited spheres, namely, by appointing persons who at the same time practised at the bar. In justification of this latter course, the instance of Mr. Baines, the recorder of Leeds, and other cases, had been mentioned; in support of the contrary view no instances were given, but it was simply said that persons practising at the bar could not exercise judicial functions as well. This last view, however, was not borne out by the fact; and every one must allow that the minds of such persons were likely to be constantly exercised, and to be in full vigour, upon legal questions. With regard to the plan of giving moderate salaries to persons to be placed in certain districts, to which they should be required to confine themselves, he (Lord J. Russell) thought that a mode which would fail of securing good judges. Those who did not very well succeed at the bar would be anxious to have these appointments; but men of talent, who knew they were likely to rise at the bar, would refuse them; and thus the country would be excluded from getting men of the greatest vigour of mind and the highest talent. No doubt there were men of good legal knowledge, who did not much practise at the bar; but the party who had this patronage would have great difficulty in saying who they were. When a man had risen to eminence at the bar, and had argued with ability, he had been subjected to a test; but in appointing these other persons there must be great uncertainty whether they were not men of very inferior talent. In Scotland, the judicial decisions of local judges had never given satisfaction; and all difficult cases were sent to the superior Judge, who was an advocate in the highest practice in the courts at Edinburgh; and by Act of Parliament the sheriffs were actually required to be habitually attending the Court of Session. Unless the House were disposed to go to a much greater expense than was contemplated, in prohibiting practice, they would be in danger of having men of very second-rate abilities and knowledge of law, and who in the course of a few years, would forget what they had known when practising.
 924
 COLONEL T. WOOD  moved as an Amendment, that the judges shall cease to practise as barristers when they accept office.
 MR. J. S. WORTLEY  thought the Government was right in not proposing to exclude the judges under this Bill from practising as barristers. How else could they hope to get good judges? Did they think a man fitted for the situation would abandon all the prospects of his profession for such a salary? He differed from the hon. and learned Member, who thought concurrent practice as a barrister unfitted a man for a judge. He knew three gentlemen on the northern circuit eminent as barristers and distinguished as judges; and of these he might mention the recorders of Hull and Leeds. The hon. and learned Member had said, that it might be possible to entrap a barrister in giving an opinion in reference to a case which he would afterwards have to decide on as a judge; but if he were a right sort of man, with a candid and strong mind, that circumstance would not prevent him from giving a proper decision on the case submitted to him as a judge. These courts would not take up all the time of their judges, and by attending Westminster-hall they would keep their weapons polished.
 MR. S. WORTLEY  wished to ask why, if the Lord Chancellor intended to appoint those now in office to be judges in the new courts, a provision to that effect was not introduced into the Bill? The late Government had voluntarily deprived themselves of the patronage; and when so many of the appointments of the existing courts had been made by the Lord Chancellor, or under special Acts of Parliament, the best course appeared to be to give the first appointments
 918
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said: I think, Sir, this is a Bill of too much importance for us to go into Committee upon, and just now, without hearing some further statements as to its principles and operations, from the promoters of the measure. I am well aware this measure originated with
 910 l. l. l. l.; l. l.; l. 911 l. l.; l., l. 912 l. 913
 LORD G. SOMERSET  considered that the discretion of making these appointments ought to be entrusted to the Lord Chancellor, who would, no doubt, take care to appoint properly-qualified persons. With regard to the question raised by the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley), he certainly thought that that class of the legal profession commonly called solicitors were rather hardly used by this Bill. This measure, he understood, contained a provision which rendered the present holders of judicial offices eligible for appointment as judges of county courts under this Bill; but if any of the existing officers should cease to hold their appointments, they could not hereafter be succeeded by solicitors. He must say that, under these circumstances, he thought their fair share in these appointments was withheld from the attorneys. He saw no reason why eminent solicitors, who had acquitted themselves creditably in their profession, should not be eligible as judges of these courts, and he thought the appointments ought to be open to them. At the same time, he did not mean to assume that the education of a solicitor was generally such as to render him equally well fitted for judicial office with a barrister. He thought that all persons who now held judicial offices in courts of this kind had a strong claim upon the Government for reappointment under the present Bill, unless some good reason to the contrary could be shown; and he understood that the right hon. Home Secretary concurred in this opinion.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that if the Government had proposed to pass the Bill with such views and for such purposes as the hon. Member for Bridport had indicated, he (Mr. Newdegate) should have felt bound to oppose it, instead of supporting it, as he intended. The questions the hon. Member had raised were matters of the deepest importance, which the House ought not to be called upon to consider for the first time in the last days of a Session; but he (Mr. Newdegate) did not consider them involved in the Bill before the House. He certainly was not prepared to vote for or promote a series of extensive changes in our system of criminal jurisprudence, because an Act for the recovery of small debts was required. The appointment of an officer of justice to superintend all criminal proceedings, as proposed by the hon. Member, involved a departure from the system and practice of the English Constitution, and an assimilation to those of foreign countries, for which he (Mr. Newdegate) was not prepared. With respect to the other proposal of the hon. Member, namely, the entrusting the revision of the electoral registers to the judges to be appointed over the courts which were to be established under the Bill before the House, he would only observe, that there was abundant evidence appended to the Report on Votes of Electors, lately laid before the House by the Committee, for which he (Mr. Newdegate) had moved, that amply proved how little advisable it would be to place the revision of the electoral registers in the hands of local authorities. He would conclude by saying, that the trade and inhabitants of Birmingham, and those of other large towns, stood much in need of some better means than at
 919
 MR. NEWDEGATE  observed that he understood, from the statements which had been made by Members of the Government, that they were disposed to give legal gentlemen who filled existing judicial offices a preference in the appointments under this measure; and he wished to know whether there would be any objection to insert words in the Bill for carrying out that object?
 MR. HENLEY  considered the question of patronage involved in this Bill as a very serious one. He was one of those who did not think that had the patronage been entrusted to the lord lieutenants it would have been in good hands. But it was not quite clear that it was wise to place so large an amount of patronage at once in the hands of the Crown. A very large proportion of the existing judges were attorneys, who if they retained their appointments must give up their practice. As they might be expected to prefer continuing their practice, a vast number of appointments would necessarily fall to the Crown under the operation of the Bill. He believed that if this Bill were confined to its professed object—the recovery of small debts, without any reference to damages and wrongs—it might be a very beneficial measure.
 MR. HENLEY  thought it would be much better if there were no definition with respect to the judges in the Bill, and that it should be left to the Lord Chancellor to appoint, on his responsibility, fit and proper persons. With respect to attorneys, they were either fit or unfit to be judges under this Bill. Now there was a provision in the Bill, that all attorneys who were at present judges in certain named courts for the recovery of small debts might be judges under the present Bill; and yet, in the same breath, the Bill declared that all future attorneys should be disqualified. Both these arrangements could not be right, and, therefore, he should be better pleased to see it left entirely to the Lord Chancellor to appoint fit and proper persons as judges.
 MR. HUME  wished to make one remark in reference to this subject. Up to the present time, 640 articles had been struck out of the Tariff, including those of the present Bill, many of which required to be weighed by the custom-house officers, and occasioned great delay, expense, and inconvenience. Now he hoped that during the recess, the Chancellor of the Exchequer would inquire into the duty of every custom-house officer, and that he would be able by next Session to show a reduction of the expense of that establishment to
 909
 MR. WAKLEY  wished to know why the appointments to judicial offices under this Bill should be confined to one branch of the legal profession—why the judges should be selected from members of the bar only, to the exclusion of attorneys? It might not be very agreeable to gentlemen at the bar to hear it said that attorneys were quite as competent as they were for
 920
 MR. WAKLEY  moved, as an Amendment to the Clause, that attorneys be eligible for the office of judge in these courts. He did not propose that they should be appointed; but that the Lord Chancellor, if he found fit men acting as attorneys, should have the power of appointing them. He was sure that attorneys, if eligible for this office, would find no fault on the score of salary. For 1,200 l.
 Sir G. GREY  said, that the words "barristers of seven years' standing," though
 921
 SIR G. GREY  could not assent to the suggestion of the hon. Member; but, without giving a pledge that existing officers would in all cases be appointed to judicial offices under this Bill, he might state that a preference would be given to those existing officers who were considered competent for the situations.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that when the Bill was read a second time, he had been prepared to enter more fully into a statement of the details and objects of it, but that he had been prevented by the fact of there being no objection raised to the principle of the Bill; that it had not been presented to Parliament then for the first time, but had been discussed in three or four different Sessions. The noble Lord said the Bill came to Her Majesty's present Ministers as an inheritance from their predecessors. But though the Bill had been left to them by the late Government, and some alterations had been made in it in its progress through the other House of Parliament—alterations which did not affect the principle or important details of the measure—still it was the same identical Bill that had been brought into Parliament by the Government with which he (Sir G. Grey) had himself been connected previously, in 1841. It had been presented to Parliament in succeeding years during the existence of the late Government; and he remembered that a Select Committee, to whom the subject had been referred, had confirmed all its most important provisions; and of that Committee the right hon. Gentleman the late Secretary of State for the Home Department had been a Member, and it was only owing to the late period of the Session at which it came before the House that it had not been passed into law. The present Bill had undergone the fullest consideration in the country, particularly in those parts which were most likely to be affected by its operations; and of the numerous suggestions and representations which had been received with regard to the Bill, he must say that as far as his knowledge went, not one single representation had reached the Government asking them to postpone it. Then all those representations with respect to its details had been entertained; and in every case where any suggestion seemed entitled to consideration, and where any objection appeared reasonable, and the alteration recommended could be made without departing from
 914 915 l. l.; l. 916
 MR. ROMILLY  bore testimony to the importance of the Bill. He wished the Government would take into consideration the propriety of extending the jurisdiction of the courts established by this Bill to other matters, and of combining a variety of duties, ministerial as well as judicial, now performed by a number of different officers. He thought payment by salary preferable to payment by foes.
 MR. ROMILLY  was of opinion, that the judges under this Bill ought not to be allowed to practice at all as barristers. Concurrent practice as a barrister unfitted a man's mind for the judicial capacity. If these judges were allowed to practise as barristers, it might be possible for interested parties to obtain an opinion from one of them in his character of barrister having reference to a case which he would afterwards have to decide on as a judge. He would therefore make these judges judicial officers and nothing else; he would take up their whole time in that way, pay them handsomely and liberally, and thus the country would really get cheap and good justice brought home to everybody's door.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it would be time enough when the House went into Committee to consider the clauses which appeared to be objectionable. He was fully aware of the inconvenience of bringing forward the question at this late period of the Session; but if they did not appoint a railway board now, they would be in the same position next Session as they were at the beginning of this Session; and, under these circumstances, he thought it much better that they should pass the present Bill. They all knew that abuses existed; and there was no proper machinery to put a stop to them. He did not by that observation intend to impute the slightest blame to the Members of the Board of Trade, although there were general complaints that the business had not been fully attended to by that Board: they arose from the multifarious duties the Board had to perform. He hoped the new department would, by its superintendence, prevent illegal acts of every description from being committed by railway companies, and particularly in the prevention of such conduct as was recently
 931
 LORD J. RUSSELL  merely rose to say a few words on the subject before the House. Since the introduction of the Bill, he had taken considerable pains to ascertain its necessity; and he understood that it was the general opinion of Committees of both Houses, as well as of those persons who turned their attention to the subject, that it was desirable to have such a Board as that contemplated in the Bill before the House. When the measure was introduced to the House, it was stated that if it should be thought that this was not the proper time to bring it forward, and if it were found that a general assent would not be given to the measure, it should be given up. After taking due time to consider, as he understood there was no objection to the proposition, the Bill was brought forward; indeed, the preponderance of opinion in favour of it was so great, that they meant to proceed with it. Paying all due deference to the opinion of the hon. Member for Winchester, yet his opinion could not weigh in opposition to all those who were ready to support the Bill. He did not think it possible, if the duties of the proposed Board were to be added to the Board of Trade, that they could be adequately performed, considering what that Board had already to do. It was, therefore, desirable that the Bill should pass without delay. The House, therefore, had better proceed with the measure, although it was found impossible to invest the Commissioners who might be appointed under the Act, with all that power and authority which could be exercised by Railway Committees in Parliament.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the Government were of opinion that the President of the new Commission to be appointed under this Bill, should be a Member of either that or the other House of Parliament, so that he might be prepared to furnish any information connected with the Commission to such Members of the House as might desire it. He was happy to find that the jealousy of
 936
 COLONEL WOOD  asked the noble Lord, if the individual who waited on him from Lord Lyndhurst stated that had he any authority from other Members of the late Cabinet, or solely the authority of Lord Lyndhurst himself?
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the exercise of the power to which the attention of the House had been called, would depend upon the Lord Chancellor, who would not set that power in motion except he was satisfied of the expediency of doing so; but at the same time it was well to give notice to the gentlemen who would be appointed judges that they might hereafter be called upon to discharge the duties referred to in the clause. There were many cases in the Court of Chancery where the fund was so small that the expenses of an inquiry in London would exhaust the fund; whereas that expense could be avoided if there was an authorized party in the country to examine the witnesses on the spot, and in point of principle there could no objection to it.
 MR. WORTLEY  said, he conceived that this clause did nothing more or less than convert those local judges into masters in Chancery. The clause was to the effect that the judges appointed under the Act should perform certain duties, and make certain inquiries and reports in causes depending in the High Court of Chancery. It, in fact, virtually made them masters in Chancery; and though it might be a good thing to have local masters in Chancery in the country, yet it would be a most important change in the Court of Chancery, and if at all made should be effected deliberately, and as a portion of a measure for reforming that court. But to introduce into this Bill a clause which the Legislature had scarcely an opportunity of considering, was extremely questionable. If the Government chose to persist in it, he would not divide upon it, but it appeared to him to introduce an extensive change in the Court of Chancery.
 MR. S. WORTLEY  rejoiced that the omission of the statement had been unintentional on the part of the noble Lord, and that he had given him the opportunity of supplying it. The matter was not of so little importance as the noble Lord considered; he did not intend to injure the reputation of Mr. Perry, but he could be hardly aware of the effect his imputation was calculated to produce on a Gentleman in Mr. Perry's position. The noble Lord had appealed to the bar to say whether the appointment was approved of by that body; but he apprehended the bar was a bad tribunal to refer such a question to; in the first place interest might sometimes warp its judgment; and he would remind the noble Lord that some of the most
 947
 MR. S. WORTLEY  would not follow the noble Lord through the statement he had made, nor advert to more than one portion of it. It would be extremely painful to him to put himself in collision with the noble Lord; and he would not presume to undertake the defence of those hon. and noble persons to whom the noble Lord had referred. But there was one individual whose name was not so distinguished as theirs, and to whom justice was equally due; an allusion had been made to that individual, and to that alone should he refer. On a former occasion the noble Lord had alluded to Mr. Perry, and his
 946
 MR. S. WORTLEY  thought that the Bill ought only to continue until the end of next Session.
 LORD G. BENTINCK : I am very glad the hon. Gentleman has mentioned the circumstance. I did not think it was of so much importance. I believe I stated on the last occasion, that Mr. Commissioner Holroyd went down to Liverpool as the "dry-nurse of Mr. Perry." It has been already stated in the other House, by Lord Lyndhurst, and so circumstantially that I thought there was no occasion to reiterate the statement here, that Mr. Holroyd went down to Liverpool on the 23rd of June, while the appointment of Mr. Perry was in agitation, no doubt to clear off the arrears. He left immediately Mr. Perry arrived, and the latter proceeded with his duties without any assistance.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said: Mr. Speaker, I do not rise to cast any impediment in the way of carrying this Bill, for the purpose of covering the transactions which have of late taken place with respect to the appointment of the Chief Justice of Bombay; but after the observations that have been made upon my conduct, with reference to this transaction, elsewhere, I am sure the House will grant me this indulgence—I am sure the House will expect me to endeavour to justify my own course and conduct. I will not stop to excuse myself for having hastily, on Wednesday last, under an erroneous impression, expressed my apology to this House and two noble Lords for the charge which I made against them. Sir, I am told that by that retractation I have shown that I am a man of that levity that I can retract without investigation, as easily as I can make a charge without investigation. Now, Sir, if it were true that I had made little or no investigation before I made the qualified retractation I did the other morning, I should take little discredit to myself that upon the slightest suspicion that I had made an unjust and unfounded charge I had hastened to this House to retract it. But it will be in the recollection of the House that the retractation which I made rested upon the authority of the  Clergy List. Clergy List, Clergy List 937 938 l. 939 940 l. l.; 941 l., pro 942 hac vice l. "malice prepense" 943 l. 944 945
 LORD G. BENTINCK : I stated distinctly that the messenger who came to me came authorized by Lord Lyndhurst alone. I distinctly stated that the allegation was made to me that other Members of the Cabinet were ready to join with him, but that very likely the representation had no more truth in it than the charges made against me.
 LORD G. SOMERSET  said, that whatever were the formation of the new Board, its superintendent should be a political officer connected with the existing Government, and removable with that Government. If otherwise, the Government of the day would be obliged to support him in all the proceedings of the Board, however inconvenient—and yet such a consequence would follow if that public officer held his situation independent of the existing Government. The House had that observation fully verified in what occurred respecting the Poor Law Commissioners, the Government of the day being obliged to take their part, although not responsible for their proceedings. Let there be a proper efficient officer placed at the head of the department, assisted by a well-qualified secretary, and the best results might be expected to follow; but let it be arranged that the head of the department change with the Government. He did not think it would answer any good purpose to have a large board which would be even nominally independent of any superintending power.
 LORD G. SOMERSET  said, that had that evidence been before the House to which the hon. Member for Montrose referred, the Members of that House might be enabled to form an accurate opinion on the Bill before them, otherwise they must be in great ignorance on the subject. Why should that House be called on to legislate on the present measure, when that evidence was not placed in the hands of Members? His opinion was, that the Bill either went too far, or did not go far enough. It went to establish a new Commission, and at great expense, while it conferred neither powers nor authority which the Privy Council did not already possess; that was a serious objection. He was in favour of such a Commission, if suitable powers were conferred, and its duties properly defined. The question really resolved itself into this—was there a necessity for the formation of such a department? But whether there were or not, the Bill did not appear to carry out what might be considered the important objects for which it was intended; at least as far as he could see. Had he no objections to the principles of the Bill, he must object to it because of the late period of the Session in which it was introduced.
 MR. B. ESCOTT  thought that the speed on railways was a great public convenience, and should not be reduced. He should, however, in consequence of other circumstances, join in suggesting that the consideration of the present question should be deferred until the ensuing Session. The great evil in railway legislation was, that when a Bill was introduced it was considered not on its merits, but according to what were the interests of the shareholders—and particularly of shareholders who had seats in that House. That was an evil for which the present Bill provided no remedy, as it left full power to Members of Parliament to vote on subjects in which they were personally interested—a power which they should not have. No system of railway legislation could go on satisfactorily while contractors in railways, Members of that House, who had large sums embarked in them, were allowed to vote, and decide by these votes what Bills should be carried and what Bills should not. It had been said, that the Board of Trade was so overcharged with work, that it could not attend to the business which would devolve on the new department. Had the Board of Trade said so? Had that Board declared that it
 933
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  was surprised at the conduct of those Gentlemen who, after having spoken against the Bill, yet voted for it when the House came to divide. Thank God! he had never been guilty of such despicable conduct; his course had always been consistent and independent. The introduction of so important a Bill as this at so late a period of the Session, was nothing less than a gross trick played upon unsuspecting and absent Members. Had he chosen last night, he could have stopped the further progress of the Bill this Session, because there were not forty Members present at the time that it was read a second time; but he scorned any underhand work.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, the Bill would entail great expense on the country, besides giving an increased patronage to the Government; and it would also have the effect of establishing another Board of Commissioners like to the New Poor Law Board, of which they had heard so much of late in regard to the way in which they had done their duty. He hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would give the Bill a little more consideration, which he had no doubt would lead to its postponement until the next Session. A measure of such importance should be allowed sufficient time for consideration. He felt such strong objections to the Bill, that unless his proposition was fairly met, he would move that the Bill be put off for six months. If he did not succeed in that, he would move to have the sixth and seventh clauses expunged.
 MR. HORSMAN  concurred in the necessity of the present measure, and thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer had exercised a wise discretion in confining the Bill to those points on which the public were pretty generally agreed.
 MR. MUNTZ  was of opinion, that in regard to the difficulties which attended the subject, the state of matters would not be improved by delay. He anticipated a great saving of expense to the country from the institution of such a board as that proposed.
 MR. WARBURTON  said, that the difficulty which was to be contended with year after year, was the influence of Members of that House who were connected with railways; which influence was considerably on the increase in both Houses of Parlia-
 934
 MR. HENLEY  would make this proposal to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, that if he consented merely to transfer the powers possessed by the Board of Trade to this new Board, leaving other matters to be the subject of future consideration, he was not disposed to give further opposition to the Bill; but the latter part of the Bill gave powers to which he must object; and which was too weighty a subject to be considered in the present thin state of the House. If the suggestions thrown out were not attended to, he should feel it his duty not only to oppose the Bill, but to contend against every clause of the Bill.
 MR. HUME  considered that a Board of the kind proposed to be appointed, was in the present state of railway business absolutely necessary. If the hon. Gentleman who had objected to the powers conferred by the Bill, had been, like him, on the Committee which suggested the appointment of the Board, and had heard the evidence of the engineers and others who
 930
 MR. BORTHWICK  thought the principle of the measure one of great importance indeed; for, construe it as they might, the step now taken was neither more nor less than to appoint what would ultimately be considered a Secretary of State for the Superintendence of Public Works; and he thought the sooner they brought it to that point the better. He was not fond of borrowing much from our neighbours on the other side of the channel; but he confessed he did think that a department of Government constituted on the same principle as that of the Minister of Public Works in France might be extremely useful in this country in the present state of things; because the operations of railways, whether considered in a commercial point of view, or in regard to their more remote but not less important social objects, were of gigantic importance and of enormous consequence to the best interests of the country; and ought at once to be placed under the care of a distinct department of Government. He cordially agreed, therefore, in the object of the present Bill, though he considered it defective to this extent—that it conferred too limited powers upon the Board for the objects which it proposed to accomplish. He would wish to see the Board have a more permanent character, a more ample responsibility, and more abundant powers.
 MR. P. HOWARD  trusted that the Board when appointed would direct its attention to the subject of the excessive speed of railways, which was the occasion of so many accidents.
 MR. ESTCOURT  would give the Bill his cordial support. It might be true that the Board of Trade had all the powers which it was proposed to confer on the new Board; but he could not forget that during this heavy Session of Parliament, when the House had had more to do with railways than on any former occasion, they had not received one iota of assistance from the Board of Trade. He did not blame the Board of Trade for this; he admitted that its reports last year had been received with less deference than they deserved; and the Board might on that account not care to proffer much assistance. With respect to the present Bill, he did not believe that it was possible for the ingenuity of any man satisfactorily to frame a law,
 932
 MR. WAKLEY  did not think the report presented yesterday was such as to induce the House to entertain much regard for Commissions or Commissioners. But the disadvantages which might attend such boards, might, in some cases, be met by countervailing benefits. Considering the gigantic evils connected with the railway system, he could imagine nothing more incompetent or insufficient for the removal of those evils than the proposition before the House. He disliked the division of authority. Why should not one man be selected to superintend the department which the Bill proposed to entrust to five? Those five Commissioners had no efficient authority; all they could do was to report in certain cases; and on going over the Bill, he really could not discover that they would render any services to the public: with such a number, the responsibility was so divided, that blame could not be brought home to the proper parties, unless a Committee were to sit for four or five months to carry out an investigation. But if they had one man to deal with, they knew where to put their finger. Looking to the incomplete and inefficient powers given by the Bill, he for one should entreat the Government to postpone the measure till another Session of Parliament. From the tone of the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), he inferred that the noble Lord's own inclination was to follow that course.
 MR. SCOTT  said: I fully concur in what has fallen from the hon. Member for Montrose; and I rejoice that he has given notice of a Motion, for next Session, of inquiring into those Colonies which have not representative assemblies. I only wish that the hon. Member had carried the scope of his Motion a little further, with a view to the enlargement of the powers granted to the legislative assemblies in some Colonies which already have representative bodies. With respect to the measure before the House, I cheerfully and gratefully admit that the present Bill is far superior to any that has hitherto been proposed; and I am bound to state, that in all the intercourse which I have had with the Colonial Office during the last two years, since I have had, in some sense, entrusted to my care the interest of the Colony of New South Wales, I have at no former period experienced so much courtesy as from the present Government, or observed so great a disposition fairly and liberally to consider the interest of the Australian Colonies, with a view to their advancement and their welfare. My only regret is, that when they found the former system so faulty, they have not made a bolder and a wider stride in the road which they have taken to improve it. The system of land tenure in Australia has been bad in itself, and has had the additional fault of being in a state of constant change. We have seen free grants, sales at a fixed price, sales by auction; the minimum price once fixed at 5 s. s., s.; 963 l. l. l. l.; 964 l., l. l. s. s. 965 s. l. 
 
 Years. Minim. Price. Amount Sold. Price Obtained. Emigrants. 
 Four years ending 1839 5 s. 1,303,902 500,000 l. 40,000 
 Omit 1840 & 1841. 
 Four years ending 1845 20 s. 24,000 45,600 l. 6,500 966 s. s. s. s. "A price at least up to 20 s. 967 Tour in France, "Give a man the secure possession of a bleak rock, and he will turn it into a garden; give him a nine years' lease of a garden, and he will convert it into a desert." l. 968 s., s. s. s. s. l. l. l. l. l. 969 d. l. l. 970
 MR. SCOTT : And therefore you impose the largest coin in the realm.
 MR. SCOTT  rejoined, that it was not his intention to interpose any impediment to a Bill of itself beneficial, nor any delay on this the last Saturday of the Session; but he must be permitted briefly to make one or two observations in reply. It was said, this Bill had gone out and been approved of in the Colony. Now, first, he was happy to say, that he did not think this Bill the same as that of last year. It was a much better Bill. Next, so far from the Bill having been approved, it had not received the approbation of the Legislative Council, to whom in courtesy and justice it ought to have been referred, for that was not sitting. It had not received the approval of the Executive Council; for the paper entitled the  Opinion of the Executive Council, 972
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  stated, that as regarded Mitchell, having the fullest confidence in the discrimination and in the impartiality of the Postmaster General, he was sure no act of injustice had been done by him. He was certain also that if the Postmaster General were of opinion that any act of injustice had been done to the petitioner, an inquiry would be instituted and redress afforded. It was very difficult for those who presided over public departments to satisfy those under them: they frequently became dissatisfied if they were not promoted according to their expectations: they often imagined that their merits were intentionally overlooked, and from that feeling they became discontented; they made complaints when they supposed anything was carried on wrong in the office where they were connected; they became impudent to their superintendents, and they often acted in such a manner that no business could satisfactorily go on. As for himself he did not wish to pronounce any opinion one way or the other on the conduct of the individual in question. With respect to the Motion for a Commission, he could not see what good it could effect even if granted. As there was one individual responsible for carrying on the whole duties of the Post Office, he was of opinion,
 959
 MR. HAWES  said, that he should make a few observations upon what had fallen from the hon. Member for Roxburghshire, whose position with regard to the Colony of New South Wales entitled his remarks to some consideration. He would only state, that the Bill was very similar in its provisions to that which had been introduced at the close of last Session, and which was then postponed in order that it might be sent out to the Colony for consideration—that it had been sent out, and had come home so much approved of there that very few alterations had been suggested. In what the hon. Member said with regard to the decline of the land sales, the trade, commerce, and shipping, in New South Wales of late years, he was wrong in attributing these effects to the Land Sales Act, and seemed to have forgotten the extravagant spirit of speculation which prevailed five or six years ago. With regard to the minimum price of 1 l. 971 "The high price of land and the squatting system seem to me naturally to go together—the one supports the other; and either would be indefensible without the other. Together they form, as far as I can judge, the best system in which the domain of the Crown can, under existing circumstances, be administered. Sheep increase with great rapidity; and consequently new lands are occupied to a vast extent every year. If it be once admitted that the price of the fee-simple of these lands is to be fixed with reference only to the profit they yield to the owners of the sheep, the price must, and especially as we recede from the sea coast, rapidly decline, until it becomes less per acre than the smallest coin in use in the country."
 MR. HAWES  concluded by saying, that he hoped the hon. Member would not cause any delay at this stage of public business, but would allow the Bill to proceed through the Committee.
 MR. HAWES  could not accede to his hon. Friend's views, and hoped his hon. Friend would not press his Amendment.
 MR. B. ESCOTT  would also raise his voice in reprobation of the principle of this Bill, for he could not see why the landed gentry of Ireland should be relieved from the expense of the constabulary force—a force which was rendered necessary by the conduct of these gentry themselves. He had listened with approbation for five years to the cry of those who now occupied the Treasury bench for equal law between England and Ireland; but was this equal law? Certainly not; it was neither more nor less than relieving the gentry of Ireland, not the people of Ireland, at the expense of the people of this country.
 MR. PROTHEROE  seconded the Motion. He did not think the man had been properly treated. A dismissal for one day's absence, seeing that he had been ten years in the service of the Post Office, was most harsh and unjust. Whatever was the nature of the charge, whether true or false, he did not think the Post Office authorities had conducted the inquiry in a creditable manner. He would conclude by seconding the Motion.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that this Bill was brought in on what the present Government considered a pledge on the part of their predecessors; at the same time they did themselves conceive it to be a good, and wise, and necessary measure. So far from its being an unconstitutional measure, it was precisely constitutional; for it gave the Lord Lieutenant the power to protect the lives and properties of Her Majesty's subjects in Ireland, through the aid of the police force of that country, obviating the necessity of employing the military power.
 MR. WARBURTON  said, that the observations of his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, and the comment made on those observations by the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had given to the present discussion far greater interest and importance than belonged to the original question. The hon. Member for Montrose had advised the Government, if really intent on a good administration of Post Office affairs, to do as they did before, and to appoint Mr. Rowland Hill to some office that would enable him to see his own plan properly carried out. He joined with his hon. Friend in pressing that advice upon Government. When Lord Melbourne's Cabinet had decided on giving their sanction to Mr. Hill's plan, he and several other Members who had sat on Mr. Wallace's Committee, had, in concert with Mr. Wallace, given similar advice to the then First Lord of the Treasury, and they brought the following precedent under Lord Melbourne's notice. A Committee which sat to consider Mr. Palmer's claims (the Mr. Palmer who substituted mail-coaches for horse mails) had called before them, and examined as a witness, Mr. Pitt. Mr. Pitt stated, that fearing, from the opposition given to the proposals of Mr. Palmer by the Post Office authorities, they might obstruct the plan they were directed to execute, he appointed Mr. Palmer to an office in that department, himself to direct the execution of his own scheme. Lord Melbourne adopted and acted on this precedent. Mr. Hill was appointed to an office to act under the immediate direction of the Chancellor of the Exchequer; and he was thus invested with as full authority as he could desire, under the straightforward
 960 l. 961
 MR. PARKER , on behalf of the noble Lord at the head of the Post Office department, said, he had to explain and defend the act which was complained of. When the present noble Lord who presided over that establishment came into office, he found, from the discussions that had taken place in this House, that a very unsatisfactory feeling existed among those engaged there. In fact the whole establishment was in a most unsatisfactory condition. In regard to the getting up of the  Post Office Directory,
 MR. HUME  thought an inquiry was necessary,
 958
 MR. HUME  suggested that the leases of land should extend from fourteen to twenty-one years.
 MR. HUME  said, that he thought it was a bad thing to enact one set of laws for Ireland with respect to the police, and another for England. He did not wish to impede the progress of the Bill, but he would just point out, that if they paid the police from the Consolidated Fund, the profit would go into the pockets of the landed gentry. He would warn the Government that next Session they would have to bring in another Bill to amend it.
 MR. SHEIL  said, that when Sir Robert Peel brought in his great measure for the repeal of the Corn Laws, he had expressly stated that Ireland was entitled to some compensation.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  had objected to this Bill in its previous steps, on account of its unconstitutional character, as giving, in fact, the command of a standing army to the Lord Lieutenant. He did hope, however, that there would be no necessity for the use of the extraordinary powers; but that Her Majesty's Ministers would now take an altogether new course. He believed that they would do so, and that the public would hear no more of Coercion Bills, and the exasperation arising from them. He saw an earnest of that new line of conduct in the restoration of those gentlemen to the commission of the peace who had been deprived of that office by the late Lord Chancellor. He trusted also that in Ireland, where this measure was duly appreciated, that the landed gentry would be induced so to act
 955
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  rose to call the attention of the House to the petition of Thomas Mitchell, late sub-sorter in the General Post Office (presented on the 6th day of August), complaining that his dismissal was occasioned by proving in evidence certain malversations and corruptions on behalf of his superior officers, and to move for inquiry therein. This was not a question merely affecting an individual, but involved the character of the establishment. It would be recollected that he (Mr. T. Duncombe) had pointed out many abuses in the Post Office, and amongst others that connected with the  Post Office Directory. 956 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that Her Majesty will be graciously pleased to appoint a Commission, to inquire
 957 Post Office Directory,
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE , considering that the subject was under the consideration of the Treasury, would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. WAKLEY  would ask what, after all that was said, was to be done with Mitchell? For ten years that man held a situation in the Post Office, with credit to himself and with advantage to the public; and because he gave evidence not very agreeable to certain parties, he was dismissed. If there was one thing more than another which should excite the vigilance of that House, it was in affording protection to persons who held subordinate situations, when they had the honesty and the courage to expose official malpractices. Instead of punishing them, they ought to be rewarded. He would show the heads of departments, that there was an authority to which they were accountable, and that if the persons under them were subject to their vigilance, they should remember they would be made to know there was an authority above them which could make them also vigilant. When an investigation was to be held, an individual should be appointed totally independent of the department which was the subject of inquiry—an individual who could not be damaged by the discovery of the whole truth. In the Post Office investigation, while the inferior officers were giving their testimony, the superior officers were present. Under such circumstances, the whole was a mockery. Could it be expected that those men would state all they knew, standing in the presence of those who might on the following day dismiss them? No good could come from such an investigation. But what was to be done with poor Mitchell was the question which still recurred? Here was a man dismissed from his situation, because he gave an honest testimony: was there any effort made to get him a situation elsewhere? Was it just—after ten years' faithful service—to turn him on the world—to reduce him to beggary? To permit such conduct would be unworthy of the heads of the Post Office. If before the next Session of Parliament a situation was not provided for Mitchell, his conviction was, that there was very little justice to be expected either from the Government or from the heads of the Post Office.
 MR. WAKLEY  thought that the Irish Members had behaved so generously, so justly, so fairly, and so nobly on the repeal of the Corn Laws, that Ireland was entitled to any relief that could be afforded her. It was but right that every advantage should be given that could be given to the Irish gentry; yet he must say that the people of this country would rather see money spent in Ireland for any other object, than that for which this grant was to be made.
 MR. BERNAL , while he did not underrate the importance of the subject so temperately brought forward by the noble Member for Lynn, or of the statement made by the hon. Member for Shrewsbury, did not think the data upon which they proceeded warranted the conclusion to which, they would drive the Government. Did the noble Lord wish a squadron to be sent to Mexico to demonstrate our readiness
 994 l.,
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said: Sir, I take this opportunity, on the Orders of the Day being read, to call the attention of Her Majesty's Government and of this House to the present state of affairs as they exist between the United States of America and Mexico. It is within the knowledge of this House, that this country must have very considerable interest in the state of Mexican affairs; its annual exports to Mexico amount to something like half a million a year. In Mexico there are different establishments connected with British interests; there is the Mining Company as well as other companies. In Mexico, therefore, British capital is invested, and on private accounts, in establishments of various descriptions, to the amount of from seven to ten millions; while the debt of Mexico to this country—I mean the public debt of Mexico due to England—amounts to no less a sum than 10,200,000 l. 979 980 981 982 983 984 New York Journal Washington Union,
 MR. DISRAELI : I am quite sure that in negotiating these matters between the United States and Mexico, we shall not find the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs forsake his usual prudence and caution. But, at the same time, I am bound to state that the observations he has made on this occasion appear to me to be by no means satisfactory. The British merchants are deeply interested in the fate of Mexico—much more deeply than has been described; for independently of the great public debt owing by Mexico to this country, and independently of the great mercantile establishments, the British capital invested in mining operation, in sixty-five undertakings far exceeds the ten millions
 988 989 990 991 l. 992 993
 MR. P. H. HOWARD  said, it was absolutely necessary for us to maintain something like the balance of maritime power, which we could not do if Mexico fell under the dominion of the United States. He was not without hope, however, that the long-suffering tenacity of the Spanish character would be able to maintain itself against the more compact power of the United States. He trusted that the mediation between the two countries would be accepted; but if not, that the great Powers of Europe would be aware that they could not suffer a great preponderance of power on the other side of the Atlantic, without eventually shaking their own power and commercial superiority. No Englishman could witness without sympathy the prosperity of the United States; but they must not attempt to ally the spirit of commerce with that of conquest. He was quite satisfied with the noble Lord's (Lord Palmerston's) statement, and hoped he would evince the same capacity and achieve the
 995
 MR. WAKLEY  congratulated the noble Lord on the novel position in which he must find himself. Nevertheless, he had always regarded the noble Lord as a peaceful Minister, and that the course of his policy was the best for the maintenance of peace between this and foreign countries. He had never pursued a mean, or truculent, or subservient policy, but one which became the power and character of this great country. It had been said, only a few months ago, that the noble Lord, not now in his place, failed in forming a Government because the noble Lord was considered even by his own friends to be a fighting man. But it was to be hoped that delusion was now dissipated: if it did still prevail, the speech of the noble Lord this afternoon ought to remove it from every mind, for a more peaceful speech had never been uttered. It was for the benefit of the whole human race that peace should be maintained, and nothing was so calculated to preserve it as free and unrestricted commerce. He was delighted to find the noble Lord was anxious for the restoration of peace between Mexico and the United States, and trusted he would not change his policy.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I have great pleasure in giving my noble Friend an answer to the question he has put. I trust, however, that the House will think I am pursuing that course which is most befitting the position I hold, if I do not follow my noble Friend in those observations which he has made upon the past transactions between this country and the United States, Mexico, and Texas, concerning the relation of that country with Texas, and the annexation of Texas to the United States. These are matters which belong to past periods; the facts are historically known; and it is not, I think, necessary or useful for me at present to express any opinion upon them. Sir, my noble Friend has expressed opinions as to the injury which must accrue to British interests from the war now going on between Mexico and the United States. I entirely concur with my noble Friend that in the present state of international relations in the civilized world it is impossible that any great war can be carried on between any two considerable and independent States without that war affecting prejudicially the commercial interests of all other countries which may have relations of commerce with the two contending parties. And in proportion as commerce increases, in proportion as commerce is freed from all those restraints which tend to limit and circumscribe its extent, in that proportion
 985 986 987
 Mr. D. BROWNE  rose to call the attention of the House to the state of distress in the county of Mayo. He stated that Mayo was the poorest county in Ireland; that it contained between 3,000 and 4,000 of the most wretched peasantry on the face of creation; that the greater number of the proprietors were absentees; and that every alternate year hundreds of the people were suffering under the pangs of hunger and the extremity of want. The accounts he had received from Mayo at this moment were of a most alarming character. If the facts which had reached him were true—and he had no reason to doubt their truth—the peace of society in that county was in imminent danger, not merely on account of the famine, but on account of the rashness to which the people might be precipitated from the pressure of despair. He had on a former occasion declared himself
 1017 1018
 The O'CONOR DON  said, that the attention of the Government had been fully awakened to the subject, and that they were devising means by which the people would be enabled to get over the immediate pressure of the distress, so that measures might ultimately be adopted to improve their condition.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  admitted the general truth of the pictures that were drawn of the distress existing in Ireland, although he believed that some of the details were exaggerated. The failure of the potato crop was this year much more extensive than it was last, and Ireland was therefore in a situation of peculiar difficulty, He could assure the House that the fullest attention of the Government would be given to the subject during the recess, after which assurance he trusted that he would not be expected to enter into details. The county of Mayo was at present, he believed, one of the most distressed parts of Ireland; and he feared the visitation with which the country was afflicted had fallen more heavily there than elsewhere. Still, however, some of the statements were, he believed, in some degree exaggerated. He was glad to find by the accounts from the markets there, that at Westport, lately, Indian meal was selling at less than 1 d. d. d. 1019
 MR. WARBURTON  complained of the restriction of the judicial appointments to barristers at law. A clause ought to have been introduced, declaring that the judges should have no right to compensation if they were hereafter to be entirely prohibited from practising as barristers. If it was now too late to introduce a clause, the House ought at least to receive the most complete assurance from the Government that no such claim would be admitted.
 MR. HUME  observed that, consistently with the rules of the House, he should not have been able to make any observations unless he were about to end by a Motion; but he had no intention to press any of his resolutions.
 MR. HUME  said, the House would observe, among the Notices of Motion for that day, one of nine Resolutions which he had placed on the book some time ago, with a view to giving an opportunity to the
 1010 1011 "That the Commissioners shall make the record of their proceedings, in which shall be entered in writing a reference to every letter received, whence, its date, the date of its reception, and the subject to which it relates, and a minute of every letter written or order given by the said Commissioners, whether in answer to such letter received, or otherwise, with the date of the same, and a minute of the opinion of each of the members of the Board of Commissioners, in case they should finally differ in opinion upon any order to be given, or other proceeding of the Board; and such record shall be submitted to one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State once in every year, or as often as he shall require the same." 1012 "Every destitute person who shall present any such ticket to the master of the workhouse shall by the said master be received as casual poor; and after a compliance with the workhouse regulations, provided for the admission of destitute persons, shall, if he or she be able-bodied or partially disabled, be set on such work as may be provided for the able-bodied or the partially disabled." "After such person shall have performed a task of work proportioned to his or her capacity, he or she shall receive such a meal of food as is provided to be given to the regular paupers, inmates of the workhouse; and thenceforth, on the performance of the prescribed work, shall receive the same diet and he subject to the same discipline as the other paupers of the workhouse." 1013 1014 l. 1015 "That Her Majesty will be graciously pleased to cause a special public inquiry to be made into the facts above recited and referred to in the evidence before the House, to ascertain whether the Commissioners, by their letters, instructions, and proceedings, and by their omission to direct the means for setting the able-bodied mendicants to work, did encourage and increase mendicity; and also whether the proceedings of the Commissioners generally have been culpably irregular or illegal; and if it shall appear that the Commissioners have so acted, or have by their culpable defaults occasioned the mischief complained of, that Her Majesty will be graciously pleased to take into Her consideration the certainty of dismissal of inferior officers when they have infringed the law or the rules laid down for their guidance; and that She will be pleased to direct that evenhanded justice be done to these superior officers, who have had,
 1016
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the hon. Gentleman would bear him out, he was sure, in stating that on his (Sir G. Grey's) having represented to the hon. Gentleman that at that late period of the Session, and as the Report of the Andover Committee was not yet printed, it would not be practicable to go into the subject of his resolutions, the hon. Gentleman had given him in private a distinct assurance that he should not move his Resolution this Session. Considering the importance of the subject, and the importance also of examining the evidence given before the Andover Union Workhouse Committee, and the District Asylums' Committee, he thought it was the duty of Her Majesty's Government to give the most deliberate attention to the whole subject. Under the impression, then, that the hon. Gentleman had given him a distinct pledge that he should not move his resolutions this Session, he (Sir G. Grey) should not go further into the subject.
 SIR G. GREY  was quite willing to give the most distinct assurance, that the exclusion of the judges from practising as barristers hereafter could not be acknowledged as giving any claim to compensation. The Lord Chancellor thought it exceedingly improbable that those gentlemen could have extensive practice; and would no doubt be disposed distinctly to intimate that the extended restriction on practice would not be allowed to constitute any claim to compensation.
 DR. BOWRING  wished to put a question to the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs, which was deeply interesting to our merchants trading to the Levant. The English had hitherto been in a condition in Turkey with respect to commercial advantages which contrasted very unfavourably with the condition of Russian traders thither, who had a less amount of export and import duties to pay than British merchants. As he had heard a Treaty had been signed between Russia and Turkey, the effect of which would be to place our merchants in that country on an equal footing with merchants from Russia, he wished to know whether there was any foundation for the report he had heard.
 MR. FIELDEN : I cannot trust myself, Sir, to say what I feel on this subject. If the establishment were truly designated, it would be called a slaughterhouse. The people are very forbearing; but my impression is, unless the right hon.
 1051 en masse,
 MR. WAKLEY  replied: The speech of the right hon. Baronet had given him some satisfaction, but not much. If the investigation was left to the parties who had already inquired, he expected nothing from it, and he feared he should be under the necessity of troubling the House early next Session on the subject. The House and the public had a right to know to what extent the heads of the Poor Law Commission Office were implicated in these transactions. The House had a right to know why the Lunacy Commissioners did not make public the communications existing between the Poor Law Office and Haydock Lodge; if the parties or the authorities had connived at such an arrangement they ought, for the public benefit, to be exposed. [Sir G. GREY: They state they did not know it.] They ought to have known it. He knew Mr. Whelan was a benevolent man; he had been steward of Hanwell; but how could they tell it was not a colourable transfer? How did they know that the interest of Mr. Mott in the establishment had ceased, and that he would not continue practically the auditor of the union and the superintendent of the asylum? It was stated that Mr. Portus had ceased to belong to the asylum; but just before he came to the House he had seen the registration of a death at Haydock Lodge signed by him as late as the 27th of June. [Sir G. GREY: That will be a matter for inquiry.] But who would make the inquiry? If the right hon. Gentleman would make it personally, he (Mr. Wakley) should be perfectly satisfied; but he was afraid the Lunacy Commissioners would be asked to make it. He believed the Crown had the power of issuing a Commission without a vote of the House of Commons; and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would feel it his duty to advise the Crown to issue such a Commission; the subject was of great importance; it involved the conduct of two public departments. An inquiry was due to the public service: he therefore gave the right hon. Gentleman notice that if an inquiry was not fully and effectually instituted before the next Session of Parliament, he should, if he then had the honour of a seat in it, feel it his duty early in the Session to move the appointment of a Committee upon the subject. At present he could not divide
 1056
 MR. WAKLEY : Sir, in bringing forward the Motion of which I have given notice for some time back, I cannot but express my regret that the noble Lord the Member for Totness (Lord Seymour) is not in his place. The noble Lord had ample notice that the subject would be entered upon; he is acquainted with the facts of the case; and I regret his absence the more, because I am sorry to say that in bringing those facts before the House, I shall have to notice in no very favourable manner the conduct of the Poor Law Commission, and of the Lunacy Commission. Nor shall I have to speak in very favourable terms of certain Boards of Guardians. There are many parties implicated. It is my misfortune to have to deal with many persons; but it is their fault. I regret that I am compelled to bring such a case before the House. In order to make the case as clear and as full as possible, I wish to advert to the circumstances which occurred in the first instance in this House. The subject of the Motion which I am now about to submit to the House was first brought under the notice of Parliament on the 12th of Juno last, in a petition which was presented to the House, by the hon. Member for Anglesea. That petition was printed with the Votes on the 13th of June. In that petition there is a great variety of allegations. The first to which I shall refer is this:—
 "That between two and three years a lunatic asylum was established at Haydock Lodge, near Newton in the Willows, in the county of Lancaster, and that the management of this asylum was placed under the control of Mr. Mott. That if the information which your petitioner has lately received is true, this asylum was established as a joint speculation by parties directly and officially connected with the Poor Law Commission, and that Mr. Mott, the resident manager, was an ex-Assistant Poor Law Commissioner. That the advantages said to be afforded by this establishment were successfully urged by influential magistrates as a reason why the counties of Anglesea and Carnarvon should not join the counties of Denbigh and Flint in providing a suitable asylum for lunatics, in which Welsh patients, afflicted with insanity, might obtain the comforts and the remedial treatment that could not be afforded them in an English establishment. That in consequence of this
 1024 "That at Mr. Mott's request, your petitioner engaged two respectable Welsh women, who went as nurses to Haydock Lodge." "That in pursuing his inquiries with reference to the Rev. Mr. Richards' ease, your petitioner obtained what he considers to be clear and trustworthy testimony that many others of the unfortunate inmates of Haydock Lodge Asylum had experienced the same shameful neglect, and the same wanton and heartless cruelty. That your petitioner has been informed by disinterested parties, who had opportunities of knowing the fact, that the number of deaths in the Haydock Lodge establishment has been disproportionably great. That no fewer than five bodies have been lying in the dead-house at one time. That one of those bodies was that of an individual whose name the informants of your petitioner did not know. That this individual had been found dead at 5 o'clock in the morning, after, as was alleged, having been cruelly used by one of the keepers on the night but one preceding, and that the body was buried without even the formality of an inquest That, in the opinion of your petitioner, it is highly improper and impolitic that either the Poor Law Commissioners, or any parties officially connected with them, or officially employed by them, should be allowed to become proprietors of any establishment for the reception of pauper lunatics." "Will be pleased to institute an inquiry with respect to the asylums provided for Welsh insane persons, and especially with respect to the treatment to which such persons have been subjected, in reference not only to their physical comforts, but also to the means adopted for their restoration to the use and enjoyment of their mental faculties. Secondly, that the House will be pleased to take into consideration the propriety of enacting that a coroner's inquest shall be held, or that an investigation shall be instituted, before some competent and responsible tribunal, touching the deaths of such individuals afflicted with insanity as may die while inmates of any lunatic asylum. Thirdly, that the House will be pleased
 1025 "I am directed by Secretary Sir James Graham to transmit to you the enclosed copy of the petition of Mr. Owen Owen Roberts, of Bangor, to the House of Commons, relative to the treatment of lunatics at Haydock Lodge, in the county of Lancaster. It is stated in this petition that the management of this asylum was placed under the control of Mr. Mott; and that the asylum was established, as a joint speculation, by parties directly and officially connected with the Poor Law Commission, and that Mr. Mott, the resident manager, was an ex-Assistant Poor Law Commissioner. Sir James Graham directs me to request you to inform him whether the Commissioners had any knowledge of the fact of Mr. Mott having the management of the asylum, or whether the Commissioners have known that any persons officially connected with them, or officially employed by them, have been proprietors of any asylum for the reception of pauper lunatics, or beneficially interested in any such establishment." "I am directed by the Poor Law Commissioners to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 13th inst., transmitting to them, by direction of Secretary Sir James Graham, a copy of the petition
 1026 "You submit to the Commissioners some inquiries with reference to the allegations contained in the petition, and request that the Commissioners will supply Sir James Graham with such information thereon as the Commissioners may be able to communicate to him. In reply, I am to acquaint you, for the information of Sir James Graham, that Mr. Mott is no longer an Assistant Poor Law Commissioner [Sir James had not said he was], and has not been since the 31st of December, 1842; at which time the lunatic asylum at Haydock Lodge had not, as the Commissioners believe, been established. The Commissioners were aware that Mr. Mott was superintendent of the asylum at Haydock Lodge; but they did not conceive that, since the termination of Mr. Mott's connexion with the Commission as Assistant Commissioner, it was their duty to inquire into his employment in that capacity. The only person employed under their Commission who has any interest in Haydock Lodge is their assistant secretary, Mr. Coode." "With respect to Mr. Coode's interest in it, the Commissioners refer Sir James Graham to the annexed copy of a minute relating to this subject, and to the steps which they took upon becoming informed of the nature of Mr. Coode's share in the transactions relating to the asylum in question." 1027 "Mr. Owen Stanley communicated to the Commissioners certain extracts from a petition of Mr. Roberts, which had been transmitted to him for presentation to the House of Commons, to the effect that a lunatic asylum at Haydock Lodge, in Lancashire, had been established as a joint speculation by parties directly and officially connected with the Poor Law Commission; that the proprietorship of an asylum for the reception of pauper lunatics by the Poor Law Commissioners, or persons officially connected with them, or officially employed by them, is improper and impolitic—[this is the declaration of the Poor Law Commissioners themselves]—and is directly calculated to deprive pauper lunatics of that protection which it is the especial duty of the Poor Law Commission, and all who are connected with it, to afford. The Commissioners had not been aware that Mr. Coode, one of their assistant secretaries, was owner or landlord of Haydock Lodge; but, in consequence of the allegations of this petition, they obtained from him a full statement of his interest in this establishment, particularly with reference to its actual occupation and management. It appeared from Mr. Coode's explanation, that his legal interest in the establishment is only that of a landlord; but, inasmuch as he stated that the actual lessee (in whose name the license is taken out) is a person nearly connected with him by blood, the Commissioners thought that the arrangement was, on the whole, not compatible with his office of assistant secretary." 1028 "I am directed by Secretary Sir James Graham to transmit to you the enclosed petition of Mr. Owen Owen Roberts, of Bangor, to the House of Commons, relative to the treatment of lunatics in an asylum at Haydock Lodge, in the county of Lancaster. Reference is made in the enclosed paper to a correspondence which the petitioner had with the Commissioners in Lunacy, relative to the case of Mr. Richards, a lunatic, in which case an examination was made by the visiting justices at the request of the Commissioners. I am to request the Commissioners to transmit to Sir James Graham a full report of the proceedings in this case; and to inform Sir James Graham whether any of the Commissioners in person have made inquiry into the treatment of lunatics in the Haydock Lodge Asylum, and what information they received, and what directions they gave thereupon." "I am directed by the Commissioners in Lunacy, in compliance with your letter of the 13th instant, to forward to you, for the information of Secretary Sir James Graham, the annexed statement, being a summary of the correspondence that has occurred between the Commissioners and certain persons relative to the charges made by Dr. O. O. Roberts against the Haydock Lodge Lunatic Asylum, showing the investigations that have been made in consequence thereof, so far as the same relate to the petition of Dr. O. O. Roberts, lately printed by order of the House of Commons." "February 24, 1846.—On this day the Commissioners in Lunacy received from Dr. Lloyd Williams,
 1029 "March 4.—The Haydock Lodge Asylum lies within the jurisdiction of certain justices of the county of Lancaster; to whom the inspection and control of the asylum more immediately belong; and therefore the Secretary of the Commissioners (they being unwilling to supersede the authority of the justices) transmitted on this day a copy of the correspondence received from Dr. Williams to the clerk of the visiting justices of Haydock Lodge, requesting, at the same time, that a full and early inquiry into the matter might take place." "March 5.—And on the following day the justices (who had previously arranged to be at Haydock Lodge for the purpose of making one of their ordinary visitations) visited the asylum, inspected the premises, and examined seven of the patients, who were sufficiently convalescent to give testimony on the subject. These examinations were transmitted to the Commissioners, and the result thereof is to show that Mr. Richards was a dirty and violent patient; and to acquit the keepers now in the asylum of any ill conduct either towards him or the other patients." "March 17.—As the more pressing matters had apparently been investigated by the justices, the Commissioners did not feel it necessary to request them to visit the asylum again to pursue the minor inquiries." 1030 "At this time it was arranged, that as two of the Commissioners were likely to visit Haydock Lodge shortly, in the ordinary course of their duty, some further inquiry should be made by them as to some other points to which the justices did not appear to have directed their attention." [Why, the justices had been written to that it was not necessary.] "The subjects requiring more immediate investigation had already been thus far inquired into; and it was considered more expedient not to interrupt the Commissioners in their ordinary duties, (which occupy all their time), but to allow the inquiry into the other charges to await their visitation to the asylum, which it was expected would take place in the ensuing month (April)." "March 22.—Dr. Williams wrote to the secretary, stating that Dr. Roberts was not satisfied with the investigation made by the justices, and had determined to petition Parliament on the subject, and requiring the return of the whole correspondence." "March 24.—The secretary acknowledged Dr. Williams's last letter, adding, however, that in consequence of Dr. Roberts's desire to have the correspondence returned, he had directed a copy to be made for the purposes of the further inquiry intended to be made when the Commissioners next visited Haydock Lodge." "March 28.—The secretary, by the direction of the Board, returned the correspondence to Dr. Williams, informing him at the same time, that two Commissioners would shortly visit Haydock Lodge to inspect the establishment, and to continue the inquiry which the visiting justices had commenced. "May 2.—The secretary wrote to Dr. Williams on this day, by direction of the Board, stating that two Commissioners would very shortly visit Haydock Lodge, and that they were desirous of receiving from him, or from Dr. Roberts, any information relative to the treatment of the patients or the management of the house, which they might think deserving of investigation. The secretary then proceeded to say, that the Commissioners thought it right that Dr. Williams should know that they had lately caused an inquiry to be instituted (through the local visitors) relative to Haydock Lodge, the result of which, it was understood,
 1031 "May 7.—The secretary wrote to Dr. Roberts, requesting him to supply them, first, with the names of all persons capable of giving direct and material evidence on the subject of the complaints relative to Haydock Lodge, and the facts to which they could testify; and, secondly, the names of any persons in the asylum (whether attendants, patients, or others) capable of giving information on the subject. The secretary at the same time informed Dr. Roberts that Mr. Portus and Mary Holden had ceased to form part of the Haydock Lodge establishment." "May 11.—On this day the Commissioners received a letter from Dr. Roberts, dated 10th of May, directing their attention amongst some other things, to the following points in Dr. Roberts's petition; viz., to the case of the Rev. Evan Richards; to the death of a man 'at five o'clock in the morning, after having been abused by a keeper, named Sam, on the preceding night;' to the five bodies stated to have been lying dead at the same time; and to the alleged fact of neglect and cruelty generally being practised in the asylum." "May 14.—On this day four of the Commissioners in Lunacy left London for the purpose of investigating the present condition of the Haydock Lodge establishment, and of making further inquiries into the charges brought forward by Dr. Roberts." "They commenced their inquiries on the assumption that the circumstances vouched for by his witnesses were true. They remained in the neighbourhood of Haydock three entire days; they saw every patient and every room in the establishment; they examined Mr. Mott, Mr. Portus, and five keepers (chiefly on oath); they interrogated many of the patients, and they separately and specially examined eighteen patients (of both sexes), who appeared to be the most capable of giving reliable testimony as to the matters inquired into, and of speaking as to the treatment
 1032 "It is difficult to see what can be the object of further inquiry, or what more useful end can be obtained than the dismissal of the offending parties, and the general reform of the establishment." "The condition of the Haydock Lodge Asylum was until the expiration of last year (1845), open to certain objections, which were commented on successively by the Commissioners and visiting justices; but the result of this investigation was to give the visiting Commissioners reason to think that the establishment was manifestly in an improved state, and that some of the charges made by Dr. Roberts were substantially negatived by the evidence that came before them, and that others were no longer applicable to the asylum in its present state. They found that Mr. Portus had resigned; that the two keepers inculpated, called 'Sam' and 'Touski' (the name of the latter being Saduski), had been discharged, and attendants of a better class and at higher salaries had been engaged; that the patients did not complain of ill treatment or of bad or insufficient food, and, in fact, that all who were examined concurred in stating that none of the patients (either themselves or others) were ill used by any of the attendants now employed in the asylum. The keeper 'Sam,' against whom there seems to have been some ground for accusation, was discharged on the 24th of April, 1845, and 'Saduski' on the 15th day of January, 1846." 1033 "The patient found dead at five o'clock in the morning was, it is conjectured, from the description in Dr. Roberts's letters, a large man of the name of George Rowe." "He died on the 11th of July, 1844, nearly two years ago, and on a  post-mortem Medical Journal, "The propriety of inquests being held on all lunatic patients dying within the precincts of an asylum was discussed in the House of Commons during the passing of the present Acts, and negatived." 1034 "Mr. Mott, the superintendent of the asylum, was also afterwards summoned to attend the Commissioners in London, with the view chiefly of their ascertaining what portion of his time and attention was devoted to objects unconnected with the asylum. Mr. Mott attended before the Commissioners on the 15th of July instant; and, in answer to their interrogatories, informed them, that he had been appointed, in the month of October, 1845, auditor of certain Poor-law unions." 1035 "Commenced his duties regularly at the end of March last; and that finding the labours involved in that appointment inconsistent with his duties as superintendent of the Haydock Lodge Asylum, he had resigned the latter office in favour of Mr. Whelan (formerly steward of the Hanwell Asylum)." 1036 "The Commissioners feel it their duty, in reference to the case of the Rev. Evan Richards, to mention that the rev. gentleman was, in a manner which they think highly reprehensible, and without any notice being given to his friends, removed from the part of the asylum in which he was at first placed, and was believed by his wife to continue, and placed during the daytime among the pauper patients for some time previous to, and down to the period of his discharge." "The Commissioners, from the evidence now adduced, entertain great doubts as to the efficiency of the supervision exercised by Mr. Mott over the Haydock Lodge establishment during the years 1844 and 1845." "It is proper to state, that a considerable portion of the testimony adduced on both sides was necessarily derived from persons who either are or have been lunatic patients in the Haydock Lodge Asylum." 1037 1038 1039 1040 "There are extensive grounds occupied by the asylum, and used for the recreation and employment of the patients and for farming purposes; they are let on lease to Mr. George Coode, and by him let with Haydock Lodge for the use of the asylum." "The mortality is generally more favourable during the early history of an asylum, and during the first twenty or even thirty years of its operation:
 1041 "It appears to be now generally allowed that the insane, as a class, require a liberal and nutritious though simple diet. The mere change, indeed, on admission into a pauper asylum, from a scanty to a liberal diet, has in many cases appeared to effect a recovery without the employment of any more special means. I believe there can be no question that in institutions where the diet is liberal, the general health will be promoted; and that consequently in such institutions, other things being equal, the recoveries will be more numerous and the mortality lower than where the reverse obtains. Watery broths and soups, containing large quantities of peas or other flatulent vegetables, are seldom adapted to the wants of the insane; and their too liberal use in asylums, in connexion with an otherwise scanty diet, has been found to be connected with the prevalence of dysentery and diarrhœa." "The house and premises are in a clean state; but the visitors are of opinion that two wards of the epileptic patients stand greatly in need of further ventilation, and that the day-ward should be furnished with a stove for warming the apartment." "The refractory women's ward is in an offensive state, apparently from the near proximity to one of the privies, and it is suggested that this annoyance should be immediately remedied." "We recommend that increased attention be paid to the ventilation of the several bed-rooms which have been pointed out to the superintendent." 1042 "For the last few weeks the number of fatal cases of diarrhœa have been greater than at any previous period, and have been chiefly among the aged and debilitated. The visitors, therefore, suggest to Mr. Mott some addition to the diet table amongst this class of patients; and they further suggest the propriety of his adopting the recommendation of the Commissioners in Lunacy (April 21, 1845), 'that an allowance of beer to the pauper patients generally would form a beneficial addition to their present ordinary diet.'" "We are glad to find that it is Mr. Mott's intention to provide a detached infirmary for the sick men, which we think a very necessary addition to the present establishment." "The visitors of Haydock Lodge having this day visited the establishment, do report as follows:—There are now 444 patients in this house, viz.— 
 
 Private patients, males 20 
 Private patients, females 21 
 Pauper patients, males 194 
 Pauper patients, females 209 
 444 The patients in the different day rooms appeared to be languid and inactive, but probably somewhat might be attributed to the hour at which we saw them Still we are of opinion that some further means of exciting them to activity might be provided for them in the shape of bowls, skittles, or other games of a similar nature." 1043 "With regard to the dietary, we have heard from the patients a general complaint of the bad quality of the potatoes." "At the request of the magistrates at the last Kirkdale quarter-sessions, we have this day inspected the Haydock Lodge Asylum, chiefly for the purpose of ascertaining the number of patients which can be conveniently accommodated. We find that there are now 434 patients, but consider that, with its present accommodation, it ought not to contain more than 367. When the alterations now in progress are completed, it will be capable of accommodating 430 patients. We may further remark that the sleeping ward No. 113 is damp, and requires attention; and that the yard for epileptic patients is deficient in means for carrying off the rain-water in wet weather." 1044 "We, the undersigned, visitors of Haydock Lodge, having assembled here to-day for the purpose of visiting the asylum, and having had the pleasure of meeting the Commissioners in Lunacy in the house, have confined ourselves to inspecting the food prepared for the dinner of the pauper patients, which, according to the diet table for this day (Friday), consists of one quart of rice and half a pint of beer. We saw the rice prepared, which was formed into a kind of soup; and as the dinner of the preceding day is also a liquid dinner, we are of opinion that it would be wise to avoid the occurrence of a soup dinner on two consecutive days; and we submit to the superintendent that it would be wise to change this arrangement. We have had a conversation with the Commissioners in Lunacy on this subject, and we find that our opinion meets with their concurrence." "We have this day called at the Haydock Lodge Asylum, with the view of ascertaining how far the recommendations of the Commissioners in Lunacy, at their visit on the 19th of December, have been complied with. We find that there is still a deficiency in the article of blankets, many beds having only one. We think that this injunction should be immediately complied with, as this, in conjunction with the hot-water apparatus about to be brought into operation, will tend to improve the health as well as comfort of the patients. The bedroom No. 112 is offensive, and requires ventilation." 1045 "Sir—In reply to your letter of the 22nd ult. the Poor Law Commissioners desire to state to you their opinion, that a guardian of the poor, in supplying the contractor with the milk consumed in the workhouse, would be liable to the penalties imposed by the 55th of George III., c. 137, for being concerned indirectly in furnishing a supply of provisions for the use of the workhouse. The Commissioners cannot distinguish between the present case and that of 'West  v. "May I request the favour of your informing me, by return of post, whether my having the care of certain lunatic paupers in my asylum, belonging to the Plympton St. Mary Union, disqualifies me from being a guardian of the parish of Plympton,
 1046 "I am directed by the Poor Law Commissioners to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 4th instant, and in answer to your inquiry to state, that if you were elected a guardian, and if after your election to such office you still continue to be concerned in the maintenance of the lunatics chargeable to the Plympton St. Mary Union, you would be liable, in the opinion of the Commissioners, to the penalties imposed by the 55 Geo. III., c. 137, and 4 and 5 Will. IV., c. 76, s. 51, on persons who, having the management of the poor, supply and furnish, for their own profit, goods and provisions for the support and maintenance of the poor."
 SIR G. GREY  said: The hon. Member who has brought forward this Motion will be very much mistaken if he expects, as from one or two passages of his speech he seems to expect, that he will hear from me any defence of the establishment respecting which these allegations are made. I can assure the hon. Member I am not in the least degree anxious to throw any concealment over the facts of the case; I am quite ready to admit that Mr. Roberts has done a public service in bringing those facts before the public, in the petition he presented to this House. I readily admit that it is a fitting subject for a searching inquiry. I regret that a subject so important, affecting as it does the interest of a class of our fellow creatures, on whose behalf our sympathies are more especially enlisted, whose peculiar calamity specially entitles them to that sympathy, and to the utmost care that can be bestowed upon them—I regret that a subject of this importance has been brought forward in a speech of so great a length, of which, however, I do not complain, in a House of literally not a dozen Members. I think the hon. Member can hardly expect that any resolution could be come to in the present state of the House; it is only by the forbearance of hon. Gentlemen that we have continued to sit for the last few hours; but I am glad that forbearance has been exercised, because the subject is one that merits the full consideration and attention of the House. At the same time, I think the hon. Gentleman has introduced into the discussion allegations and statements not necessarily connected with the subject; for instance, the general conduct of the Poor Law Commissioners. I regret extremely the absence—from some cause that I cannot understand, since the hon. Member says he gave him notice of his intention to bring the question forward—of the noble Lord the Member for Totness (Lord Seymour), who has lately been acting as Chairman of the Lunacy Commission, instead of Lord Ashley. I believe my noble Friend the Member for Totness would be able to give a full explanation of
 1052 1053 1054 1055
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, it was quite true, that Russian subjects, trading to Turkey, did, in virtue of a Treaty between Russia and Turkey, enjoy advantages in respect of their trade with Turkey which were not equally possessed by British subjects, merchants to Turkey; and it was true also, that recently the Russian Government, acting, he must say, in a most liberal spirit, and acting on a policy which was not only generous, but wise, did consent to forego these advantages, and that the Turkish Government should place British subjects upon different terms from what they had been. The Treaty, however, had not been concluded, he believed; he had not had time to look among the Papers in the office that morning, and, speaking only from recollection, he was not, he believed, in a condition to lay on the Table any Papers relating to the subject; but he must say, that he was glad of this most substantial and convincing proof of the desire of the Russian Government to place its commerce on a footing
 1023
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he would not venture, in the present state of the Poor Law, and of the inquiries lately made, to say what measure or inquiry Government would propose; but he would give this promise to the hon. Gentleman, that unless he (Lord J. Russell) did propose a full inquiry in the name of the Government, or unless he took some steps to preclude the necessity of it, he should make no opposition next Session to the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the whole operation of the Poor Law.
 MR. BORTHWICK  wished to have some proper understanding of the terms on which they were to separate with reference to the important question of the Poor Law. It would be in the recollection of the House, that when the noble Lord at the head of the Government adopted the Poor Removal measure of the late Government, there stood in his (Mr. Borthwick's) name a notice of Motion, with a view of referring that measure to a Select Committee, instead of a Committee of the whole House. The noble Lord asked him to withdraw that Motion, because, on the part of the Government, he was ready at the beginning of next Session to consent to a close inquiry into the whole law of settlement. Subsequently there had also stood in his name a Notice of Motion for an inquiry into the whole operation of the Poor Law. He had, however, withdrawn that Motion, because he had felt that it was not fair to press it, as the Government had come into office only towards the end of the Session, and had not therefore had time to form their opinions on the various reports, such as that on district asylums and the Andover union. Nevertheless, he had expressed his intention of moving at the beginning of next Session, unless the Government did something on the subject, for a Select Committee of Inquiry into the whole operation of the Poor Law, founded on the reports to which he had adverted; he trusted, however, that he should be spared the necessity of giving notice on
 1065
 MR. WAKLEY  begged to ask the right hon. the Home Secretary, whether his attention had been called to a letter in  The Times 1066
 SIR G. GREY : I saw that there was a letter upon the subject in  The Times
